3.8.2019	“Today, Democrats are answering the call from the American people to restore our democracy with a broad package of reforms to take on campaign finance regulations, expand voting rights, and improve ethics in all three branches of the federal government. Renewing confidence in our democracy requires a multifaceted approach, and I am proud to support this important step in reforming our electoral process, restoring integrity to campaign finance, and promoting ethics. “I strongly support the transparency this legislation will bring to our campaign finance system. To reduce the prevalence of corporate and foreign funding of our elections, we must move toward public financing for all elections to federal office. Our current privately-financed system, along with court rulings that have gutted earlier campaign finance reform laws, allows the wealthiest individuals and corporations to hide their spending. We must bring dark money out in to the light for public scrutiny and put the political power back in the hands of everyday Americans. “Following the Supreme Court ruling in Shelby County v. Holder more than five years ago, more than two dozen states have enacted anti-voter laws that make it harder to register and more difficult to cast ballots. Increasing access to elections supports free and fair elections for Americans to make their voices heard at all levels of government. H.R. 1 prioritizes electoral equity, by modernizing voter registration for the 21st century. By requiring early voting options, supporting voting by mail efforts, and increasing voting locations near public transportation, the legislation will empower voters across our country and expand access to polls. Every American must be guaranteed a voice in our democracy – and H.R. 1 is a critical first step in restoring that promise.”
3.7.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in response to voting in support of H.Res. 183, a resolution condemning bigotry and prejudice in all forms, including anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, and white nationalism: “Political dialogue in this country should come from a point of respect and understanding, free from racism, hatred, anti-Semitism, or Islamophobia. The charge of dual loyalty or allegiance is one of the oldest forms of anti-Semitism; for centuries, Jews in countries around the world have been subjected to these claims. Here in the United States, less than just a century ago, unfounded claims of dual loyalty were the basis for the wrongful incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II. “It is okay to disagree with Israel’s actions and policies, but these debates must be had without resorting to comments that have dark, anti-Semitic underpinnings. It is not okay to claim that support for Israel is solely because of money or dual loyalty. Regardless of intentions, remarks with these undertones continue to perpetuate anti-Semitic beliefs. Similarly, attacking any individual for their religion, race, or origin is equally wrong. The recent anti-Islamic threats and remarks are disgusting and have no place in our society, let alone political discourse. They are a stark reminder of the hatred and discrimination that communities of color and Muslims face in our country and around the world. “I want to reiterate that we cannot equate criticism of Israel’s policies and actions with anti-Semitism. Dialogue and debate needs to be focused on the substantive issues at hand and should recognize the complexity of the challenges and historical context of the region.”
3.7.2019	WASHINGTON—Today, a bipartisan group of members of Congress reintroduced legislation that would focus America’s diplomatic, development, and security efforts on preventing the root causes of violence and instability in countries around the world. The Global Fragility Act, which passed the House last Congress, would require the Department of State, United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and the Department of Defense to coordinate on a global initiative aimed at stabilizing conflict affected areas and preventing the violence and fragility that allow terrorists, criminal networks, and war lords to take hold in the first place. The bill was introduced by Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee; Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX), Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee; Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA), Chairman of the Armed Services Committee; Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO), Vice Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee; Rep. Bill Keating (D-MA), Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, Energy, and the Environment; and Rep. Francis Rooney (R-FL), Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Civilian Security, and Trade. “When we help countries become stronger and more stable, we make it harder for terrorists, criminals, and other violent groups to put down roots. That makes the United States and our partners safer. In the years since 9/11, we’ve all seen what can happen when we don’t take that preventive, holistic approach to our engagement abroad,” said Rep. Engel. “I’m pleased to be joining my colleagues to reintroduce this bipartisan legislation to focus our diplomatic, development, and security efforts on meeting this challenge.” Rep. McCaul said, “Violent conflict and instability is costing the global economy trillions of dollars annually and generating fertile recruiting grounds for terrorists and transnational criminal organizations. The bipartisan Global Fragility Act confronts these threats by targeting the root causes of fragility such as extreme poverty, lack of economic opportunity, and weak governance. The U.S. must prioritize conflict prevention and better leverage our assistance dollars to support fragile states on a path towards long-term stability and resilience. This legislation provides a whole of government approach to address the drivers of fragility in priority countries and regions. I am proud to advance this critical legislation with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to tackle the problem head on and promote stability around the world.” “The Global Fragility Act represents a significant step in bringing the defense, diplomatic, and development communities of the United States together to help address the root causes of violence and fragility. Instability in the form of conflict, famine, and disease around the world continues to foster extremism and leads to the displacement of millions of people. Better coordination within the U.S. government, and with civil society and international partners, is critical to tackling the complex challenge of preventing and reducing extremism around the world,” said Rep. Smith. “The Global Fragility Act would better orient America's diplomatic efforts toward protecting vulnerable populations living in conflict-affected areas. The legislation authorizes the Complex Crises Fund, a critical global account I have long supported that enables the United States to respond swiftly and efficiently to unforeseen crises when funding gaps occur. Conflict fuels humanitarian crises and instability, which can allow violent groups to develop strongholds. Prevention of conflict abroad also leads to a safer America at home. I am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing this bipartisan legislation that will strengthen our efforts to prevent global violence and fragility before it occurs,” said Rep. Wagner. “As we know all too well from terrible attacks on the U.S. and our allies in recent decades, we are less safe here at home when systemic violence and instability takes hold around the world,” said Rep. Keating. “The Global Fragility Act is a critical piece of U.S. national security policy to tackle this reality by addressing the root causes of situations that leave communities around the world vulnerable to conflict and extremism. This legislation requires an interagency strategy and investments so that our resources are coordinated to have the greatest possible impact, and so that we learn as much as possible about how to best combat systemic violence and fragility. Time and again, our research has shown that focusing on fragility is a much more effective way to create more sustainable peace and security around the world, which is why I am proud to again be a lead cosponsor of the Global Fragility Act.” Rep. Rooney stated, “It is imperative that all necessary federal agencies collaborate to address the underlying factors that breed conflict and violence in fragile countries around the world. As we have seen here in the Western Hemisphere, the effects of these vulnerabilities transcend borders in the form of the displacement and drug trafficking crises we face today. The Global Fragility Act fosters this collaboration so that we can help these fragile countries around the world better combat the challenges they face and to root out violence and extremism.” Full text of the Global Fragility Act (H.R. 1580), can be found here.
2.28.2019	Today, four House Committee Chairs sent a letter to President Trump expressing concerns and raising questions about recent reports that the National Security Council (NSC) plans to assemble a secret panel to counter the scientific consensus on climate change and question its impacts on the national security of the United States. The letter was sent by Armed Services Chairman Adam Smith (D-WA), Energy and Commerce Chairman Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Natural Resources Chairman Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), and Science, Space, and Technology Chairwoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX). “The decision to convene this NSC panel represents yet another action by your Administration in a line of many that run counter to the overwhelming scientific consensus on the causes and impacts of climate change,” wrote the four Committee Chairs. “Given the previous statements you have made that fly in the face of explicit scientific evidence and the findings of your own DoD and Director of National Intelligence, we have serious concerns about any effort to construct a secret committee to question the basic scientific fact of climate change.” The letter also highlights concerns about the reported involvement of Dr. William Happer, who appears to be leading the efforts to undermine the consensus regarding the national security implications of climate change. “Dr. Happer does not have the qualifications to serve on a working group that should be composed of climate scientists, if it is to exist at all. Dr. Happer is an atomic physicist, not an expert on climate, and his statements on climate change have been repeatedly debunked by actual climate scientists,” the Committee Chairs continued. The full text of the letter can be found here.
2.28.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after passage of H.R. 1112, the Enhanced Background Checks Act of 2019: “After years of silence, the House is finally taking combating gun violence seriously by passing the second common sense gun reform bill in two days. Since 1998, the “Charleston Loophole” has allowed more than 60,000 guns into the hands of prohibited purchasers; by allowing a buyer to take ownership of a gun after three business days, whether or not the required background check was completed. With the passage of the Enhanced Background Check Act, the House is closing this gap in federal law to only allow the purchase of a gun when a background check has been affirmatively passed. This is the type of action needed to stop the trend of gun violence and mass shootings, like the senseless 2015 tragedy at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. Congress must continue to pass meaningful gun violence prevention legislation.”
2.27.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after passage of H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019. “Today, Congress has begun to address the epidemic of gun violence plaguing our communities. Passage of H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019, represents the first step in enacting comprehensive gun safety reforms, by requiring a background check for all firearm sales. "The evidence is clear: background checks work. Every day, background checks stop over 170 felons and some 50 domestic abusers from obtaining a gun from a federally-licensed dealer. However, in some states, those same prohibited purchasers can bypass these background checks by purchasing a firearm from an unlicensed dealer, or at a gun show. H.R. 8 closes the background check loophole, ensuring that under federal law, states that have not already addressed this dangerous loophole are required to do so. Washington state continues to be a leader in promoting gun safety and responsible regulation. With the passage of this legislation the House of Representatives has joined our state in taking a foundational step toward saving lives from gun violence. Congress must pass long-overdue federal gun legislation to prevent gun violence and keep our communities safe.”
2.26.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in support of H.J.Res 46 to terminate President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southern border: “The vote today to terminate President Trump’s unlawful national emergency declaration sends a clear message to the President and this Administration that the new House majority is serious about oversight and accountability. House Democrats are not going to stand by while the President abuses his power by declaring a national emergency to build his wall. This national emergency declaration is built on xenophobic lies and mischaracterizations about immigrants, and it is dangerous and wrong for the President to circumvent Congress by stealing funds from military readiness for his political agenda. I strongly support Congressman Castro’s resolution to terminate the national emergency. We will continue to fight this unlawful power grab.”
2.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – House Armed Services Committee Chairman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement about President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency: “This appalling decision by the Trump administration is an egregious example of the President putting his political agenda ahead of the interest of the United States. The President has decided to take tens of billions of dollars from projects that support the military and their families across the country and around the world to build his wall without Congressional approval, projects which he says ‘didn’t sound too important to me.’ It is utterly disrespectful of U.S. national security and the needs of our men and women in uniform, and it further undermines his credibility in requesting the upcoming defense budget. All for a border wall that is the complete wrong approach to border security in the first place. “As the President begins to steal money from military needs to build his wall, Congress must conduct oversight to identify exactly which projects supporting servicemembers and their families the President has chosen to value less than this political stunt. Remember, this is only a portion of an estimated $30 billion that the President ultimately wants to spend on the wall. He owns responsibility for this abject policy decision, much as he owns responsibility for this disgraceful government shutdown that impacted so many families and communities across the country. “It is clear that there is no national emergency—only a manufactured crisis—and there has been no attempt to explain how the wall has anything to do with supporting U.S. military needs, as the law intends. From the beginning, President Trump’s obsession over a border wall has been based on misguided anti-immigrant fervor, not U.S. national security. The American people are utterly opposed to this gimmick, and President Trump should be ashamed of himself.”
2.14.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after his vote in support of the conference report providing funding for seven appropriations bills through the end of the fiscal year: “This conference report is far from perfect, but it must be passed for the sake of all that it supports: many dozens of government agencies and initiatives, hundreds of thousands of federal employees, and the American public that is served by those workers and agencies. There is an endless array of federal workers who perform incredibly important duties for all of us every day; if this bill doesn’t pass, they don’t get paid and those services aren’t provided. “I am gravely concerned with the increase in immigrant detention funding in the legislation. With the Northwest Detention Center in the 9th Congressional District, we have seen the perils of our current detention system. We should be significantly decreasing the utilization of detention for immigrants and implement sorely lacking oversight and accountability for detention facilities. I will continue to work through the appropriations process and encourage legislation to better align our immigration and border security policies with our actual needs and the values of our country. “We cannot let an imperfect bill stop us from providing for all of the critically important programs included in this package and supporting the women and men who work throughout government to deliver them. Over the previous 35-day shutdown, our office heard the stories of countless constituents about the impact of the shutdown on them and their families. Passing this legislation today will end the uncertainty and prevent another perilous shutdown. “Today the President has now threatened to declare a national emergency following passage of this bill. There is no need for a wall, and no national emergency at the border. I am opposed to the President’s continued actions to put his political agenda and empty campaign promises ahead of the needs of the American people.”
2.13.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in response to House passage of H.J.Res 37, which directs the removal of United States Armed Forces from hostilities in Yemen that have not been authorized by Congress. “The civil war in Yemen has led to the world’s worst humanitarian crisis with over half of the population facing severe food insecurity and 24 million Yemenis in need of humanitarian assistance. Passage of this resolution in the House sends a clear message to this Administration that Congress does not support the United States’ de facto support for the Saudi-led coalition in this conflict. Congress must continue to exercise much-needed oversight of this Administration, and any American involvement can and must be debated transparently. The United States should be focused on working towards a peaceful resolution to this conflict and taking measures to alleviate the devastating humanitarian situation.”
2.10.2019	“Climate change is one of the greatest public policy challenges facing our country today. I am proud to support the House Resolution introduced by Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and others, called the Green New Deal. “This resolution makes clear not only the depth of the problem of climate change, but lays out the necessity of addressing income inequality as part of the solution to climate change. The devastating effects on our planet from our dependence on fossil fuels has never been more obvious, and never before in our nation’s history has so much wealth been concentrated in the hands of so few people. We must respond to the climate crisis with policies that transform our economy and infrastructure by moving towards clean and renewable sources of energy, while making changes that create greater equality of opportunity and pay people the better wages they deserve for the work they do. “What matters most now is that we enact strong, science-based legislation and policies that can put us on a path to meeting the goals in this resolution. The urgency of the climate crisis necessitates that we cannot wait. I look forward to continuing to work with the constituents I represent, my colleagues in Congress, and our stakeholders throughout our country as we craft policies to create a strong, green economy that gives everyone a fair chance to earn a decent living, have access to affordable housing, education and health care, and to support their families.”
2.5.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in advance of President Trump’s State of the Union address: “At tonight’s State of the Union, where President Trump will have the opportunity to lay out his Administration’s vision and plans for the coming year, I worry the President will once again prioritize appeasing his base instead of putting the interests of the entire country first. On the heels of the longest shutdown in our country’s history, caused by the President’s arbitrary demand for billions to build his border wall, he should use this unique platform to talk about meaningful solutions to the true challenges facing Americans. Our national priorities must include affordable health care, fighting climate change, addressing the rising cost of housing for middle class Americans, rebuilding our infrastructure, and increasing access to education. “His recent addresses to the nation during the shutdown were riddled with mischaracterizations and lies about immigrants and our border. I hope the President will refrain from his campaign-style rhetoric about immigrants that is rooted in intolerance and racism, and instead talk about meaningful reforms to our immigration system focused on what works while making the case that the United States values the lives and dignity of immigrants. Additionally, with the government funding deadline less than two weeks away, the President should reassure federal workers and the American people that he won’t shut down the government again over a wall that he has failed to convince Congress and the American people is needed. “The President should also be honest about our economic situation. More must be done to ensure that our economy works for everyone, not just the wealthiest and most fortunate. Income inequality in America continues to grow as wages stagnate and wealth becomes more concentrated in the hands of fewer Americans. The recent Trump tax cuts have further ballooned our federal deficit, at the expense of working families and led to a trillion in stock buybacks with very little investment in our nation’s workers. We should be working to enact policies that create broad-based economic opportunity for every American, regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, or the zip code where they were born, not providing wealthy shareholders with profit windfalls. “Democrats are ready to rebuild our economy and are prepared to meet the challenges of the future. The President needs to show he stands for more than empty promises and fear-mongering. Our country deserves leadership that brings us together and delivers real solutions for hard-working American families.”
2.5.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— With the Asian American community celebrating Lunar New Year on Tuesday, Representative Adam Smith released the following statement to recognize the holiday: “Lunar New Year celebrations highlight our country’s cultural vibrancy. For the Asian American community, Lunar New Year is the most important holiday of the year, and a time to celebrate the important heritage of Asian Americans,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “We must do more to acknowledge this annual observance, including official recognition by all levels of government. As the representative of a diverse district with many vibrant Asian American communities, I join in celebrating the achievements and contributions of Asian American families here in the 9th District and around the world. I offer my warmest wishes to all those celebrating the Year of the Pig. May the coming year be filled with happiness, health, and good fortune!” Background: Smith is an original cosponsor of a resolution recognizing the cultural and historical significance of Lunar New Year. Rep. Grace Meng introduced the resolution to recognize the cultural and historical significance of the 2019 Lunar New Year. It also expresses the deepest respect for Asian Americans and all individuals throughout the world who celebrate the holiday. In addition, the resolution details the history and customs of Lunar New Year, and wishes Asian Americans and all who observe the Lunar celebration a happy and prosperous new year.
2.1.2019	Washington, DC – House Armed Services Committee Chairman Adam Smith (D-WA) and House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee Chairman Jim Cooper (D-TN) released the following statement about withdrawal from the Intermediate Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty: “The Trump administration is needlessly ignoring the concerns of our allies and partners on an issue that should unify NATO, not divide it,” said Smith. “By withdrawing from the INF Treaty instead of making an honest, good-faith effort to collectively punish Russia for its treaty violations and bring it back into compliance, we are playing into President Putin’s hands. “The administration’s ideological aversion to arms control as a tool for advancing national security is endangering our safety, as well as that of our allies and partners. The risk of miscalculation or misunderstanding is already higher than at any point since the end of the Cold War, and this decision only makes it worse,” Smith continued. “President Trump withdrawing from this treaty reopens a field of competition with yet another class of nuclear weapons and, perhaps ironically, reverses one of President Reagan’s most important historical achievements in a way that benefits Moscow. We must not allow Russia to receive a free pass for violating the INF Treaty, which is exactly what the Trump administration is handing President Putin.” “Of course the Russians have been cheating on the INF treaty for years; the question is how we punish them for cheating,” said Cooper. “The Trump approach is to reward them by withdrawing from the treaty ourselves. If a student cheats on a test, does the teacher suddenly decide the test doesn’t count? No, we should rally NATO, the main beneficiaries of this treaty, to condemn Russia. But our President has been too soft on Russia and too hard on NATO. He’s got it backwards.”
1.31.2019	Washington, DC – House Armed Services Committee Chairman Adam Smith (D-WA) sent a letter to Acting Secretary of Defense Shanahan regarding the Armed Services Committee’s hearing on the Department of Defense’s Support to the Southern Border this Tuesday, January 29, 2019. The full text of the letter is available here. Chairman Smith released the following statement about the letter: “The number one thing that the House Armed Services Committee wants from the Defense Department this Congress is transparency. We did not get full transparency during this week’s hearing about DOD support to the southern border. “I am deeply troubled that the witnesses did not disclose the upcoming increase in guard, reserve, and active duty personnel, even though we asked them multiple times during a two-and-a-half-hour hearing what would happen next on the border. They never mentioned it, despite the fact that the Secretary of Defense was revealing an increase in personnel that same day. This was at best an error in judgment, and at worst flat-out dishonesty. “The Members of the Committee would have been extremely interested in discussing what the 3,500 troops going to the border in response to DHS’s latest request will be doing there. This is a violation of the executive branch’s obligation to be transparent with Congress, which oversees, authorizes, and funds its operations. It also raises questions about whether the Department thinks the policy of sending additional troops to the border is so unjustified that they cannot defend an increase in public. “I have followed up on that hearing with a phone call to Secretary Shanahan, and he has provided more details on the increase. I appreciate his willingness to discuss it with me, but a phone call is not a substitute for transparency before Congress and public candor. Does their refusal to publicly discuss what they are doing indicate that this is a policy they believe they cannot defend in an open public hearing before the full Armed Services Committee, where all 57 members have the opportunity to ask questions?”
1.30.2019	WASHINGTON – House Armed Services Committee Chairman Adam Smith (D-WA), Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI), and Congressman John Garamendi (D-CA) sent a letter to Acting Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan requesting he revise a report on climate change and its impacts on national security. The report, presented to Congress on January 10, failed to meet the basic requirements laid out in statute. The text of the letter is attached and pasted below. Quotes from the co-signers: “In 2017, House Democrats successfully required the Department of Defense to report on the impact that climate change will have on U.S. military installations. The Trump administration has now released that report and, unfortunately, it is inadequate. It demonstrates a continued unwillingness to seriously recognize and address the threat that climate change poses to our national security and military readiness,” said Chairman Smith. “While this climate report acknowledges that nearly all the military installations it studied are vulnerable to major climate change impacts, and provides numerous installation-level examples of those impacts, it fails to even minimally discuss a mitigation plan to address the vulnerabilities. The Department of Defense presented no specifics on what is required to ensure operational viability and mission resiliency, and failed to estimate the future costs associated with ensuring these installations remain viable. That information was required by law. The Department of Defense must develop concrete, executable plans to address the national security threats presented by climate change. As drafted, this report fails to do that.” “The Defense Department’s initial report does not adhere to the requirements plainly spelled out in my amendment, and it does not reflect the magnitude of the threat that climate change poses to our military bases around the globe,” said Congressman Langevin. “The Pentagon must complete the necessary analysis to meet the parameters set forth in law. Our military service members, the installations they rely on, and the threat environments they deploy to are living with the reality of climate change. It is incumbent upon the Department and Congress to ensure we are properly preparing for a warming planet, and the report issued earlier this month falls well short of what is required to responsibly address the issue, protect our national security, and ensure military readiness.” “It’s shameful that the Trump administration refuses to take the threat of climate change seriously,” said Congressman Garamendi. “As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness, I am deeply concerned about the impact climate change will have on military readiness. The inadequate report that was provided to Congress failed to offer any solutions or strategies to address the impact climate change will have on our national security. That’s why I joined Armed Services Committee Chairman, Adam Smith, and Rep. Jim Langevin, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Intelligence, Emerging Threats and Capabilities, in sending a formal request to Acting Secretary of Defense Shanahan to issue a comprehensive revised report to Congress. The administration is required by law to provide this information to Congress, and I will do everything in my power to ensure we receive this vital information in a timely manner.”
1.30.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Adam Smith (D-WA), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, and United States Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, introduced the bicameral No First Use Act, to establish in law that it is the policy of the United States not to use nuclear weapons first. Today the United States explicitly retains the option to be the first to use nuclear weapons in a conflict, even in response to a non-nuclear attack. The No First Use Act would codify what most Americans already believe—that the United States should never initiate a nuclear war. “Our current nuclear strategy is not just outdated—it is dangerous,” said the lawmakers in a joint statement. “By making clear that deterrence is the sole purpose of our arsenal, this bill would reduce the chances of a nuclear miscalculation and help us maintain our moral and diplomatic leadership in the world.” The No First Use Act would strengthen U.S. national security by: Reducing the risk of a nuclear miscalculation by an adversary during a crisis Strengthening our deterrence and increasing strategic stability by clarifying our declaratory policy Preserving the U.S. second-strike capability to retaliate against any nuclear attack on the U.S. or its allies
1.25.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on the temporary end of President Trump’s shutdown and the President’s continued border wall demands: “Finally, after 35 days, the President has agreed to do what he should have done in the first place: open the government. The impacts of the government shutdown on federal workers and communities across the country have been immense. “This is a manufactured crisis, engineered by President Trump, that has harmed hundreds of thousands of Americans. While not surprising, the tone-deaf remarks recently uttered by this President and senior members of his Administration, particularly Secretary Ross, show just how out of touch with reality they are about the difficult and dangerous position which the shutdown has put families. “We know the President manufactured this crisis because in his Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Request, submitted last February, Trump requested only $ 1.6 billion dollars for a border wall. In fact, the House and Senate gave the President the amount that he requested. However, that all changed when Democrats won the House in November. Now the President is arbitrarily demanding billions of dollars more for his wall and has been holding federal workers hostage over it. “If the President believes there has been a change in our border security needs that warrants a wall, then he should articulate those reasons to Congress based on facts. Time and again, President Trump has lied and mischaracterized the actual situation to the American people, claiming a ‘crisis’ at the border and that the ‘worst of the worst’ are pouring into the United States. These claims are demonstrably false and made only to justify harmful policies meant to appease his base. If additional border security is so desperately needed, as Trump claims, then why is he proposing a border wall that experts, including Customs and Border Patrol officials, have determined is not an effective border security strategy? “Even though President Trump has more recently demanded $5.7 billion dollars to fund 235 miles of border wall, it continues to be clear that he doesn’t actually have a solid plan for where it would be built. The Administration has provided no justification for why the arbitrary $5.7 billion is the amount needed now. Furthermore, and more fundamental to the problem, is that no substantial case has been made for why a wall is needed. “From the beginning, President Trump’s justification for a border wall was not rooted in a need for border security, but in the misguided notion that immigrants are somehow inherent threats to American society. This racist and xenophobic view has been the basis for Trump’s entire immigration agenda and could not be further from the truth. “Our policy and legislative process does not work by holding the government hostage, and I hope the President has learned that doing so is unproductive and harmful. I continue to believe that spending billions on a border wall with no justification, especially in the wake of the Republican tax giveaway to the wealthy, is deeply irresponsible, especially as we have so many other worthy national priorities, including providing health care, improving education, and fixing crumbling infrastructure. “I applaud the non-profit organizations, businesses, and community members who have stepped up to help alleviate the pains of the shutdown. My office and I will continue to do whatever we can to ensure workers are given the pay and benefits to which they are entitled and prevent unnecessary future shutdowns.”
1.22.2019	Washington, DC – Today, House Armed Services Committee Chairman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision on transgender military service: "I am extremely disappointed in the Supreme Court's decision to allow the Trump administration to enforce its discriminatory ban on transgender military service without proper due process in the courts. Anyone who is qualified and willing should be allowed to serve their country openly, without their career being affected by an arbitrary, discriminatory directive from the President. We have fought against this bigoted policy at every step, and we will continue to do so."
1.21.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day: “Today, we celebrate the life and enduring legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. His courage and passion has inspired generations of Americans to advocate for freedom and justice. “As we reflect on Dr. King’s vision of a nation where individuals are not judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character, we recognize that the fight for full equality is not over. We must honor Dr. King’s life work by continuing to build towards his goal of equal rights and opportunities for all. On this day and every day, let us focus less on the things that drive us apart and instead on what brings us together and builds upon the foundation of Dr. King’s leadership.”
1.19.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement today in response to President Trump’s speech: “The President's address to the nation failed to express even the slightest concern or support for the hundreds of thousands of Americans across our country who are living without paychecks because of this needless shutdown. It is wrong that the President and Congressional Republicans continue to hold workers and their families hostage. The President can and should re-open the government immediately. Democrats are always open to a fact-based discussion on the issues of border security and immigration reform, but the President’s remarks did nothing to advance that discussion."
1.18.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- House Armed Services Committee Chairman Adam Smith (D-WA) and Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI) issued the following statement following the release of the Defense Department’s report on climate change. Langevin amended the FY 2018 National Defense Authorization Act, and Chairman Smith fought successfully for the amendment’s inclusion in the final conference report, expressing the sense of Congress that climate change is a national security issue and requiring the report on each service branch’s top ten military installations threatened by climate change: “In 2017, House Democrats successfully required the Department of Defense to report on the impact that climate change will have on U.S. military installations. The Trump administration has now released that report and, unfortunately, it is inadequate. It demonstrates a continued unwillingness to seriously recognize and address the threat that climate change poses to our national security and military readiness,” said Chairman Smith. “While this climate report acknowledges that nearly all the military installations it studied are vulnerable to major climate change impacts, and provides numerous installation-level examples of those impacts, it fails to even minimally discuss a mitigation plan to address the vulnerabilities. The Department of Defense presented no specifics on what is required to ensure operational viability and mission resiliency, and failed to estimate the future costs associated with ensuring these installations remain viable. That information was required by law. The Department of Defense must develop concrete, executable plans to address the national security threats presented by climate change. As drafted, this report fails to do that.” “I am deeply disappointed in the cursory report released by the Department of Defense regarding climate change as a matter of national security. While the Pentagon does rightly acknowledge that a changing climate will affect military readiness and installations, the report does not reflect the urgency of the challenge,” said Congressman Langevin. “Remarkably, the report comes after a year where the Department suffered nearly $10 billion in damage in just two extreme events at Tyndall Air Force Base and Camp Lejeune—two installations that were not even evaluated. Congress deliberately required a list of the top ten bases to specify the methodological rigor that is required to adequately evaluate risk and prioritize mitigation efforts. The report contains no such list. My amendment did not stipulate any geographic constraints on vulnerable installations - after all global warming is a global phenomenon. For no apparent reason, the report confines itself to U.S. bases. Extreme weather events, like the ones that the Department will be asking Congress for money to rebuild after, are not even included as a threat.” “We need to know the risks to our military from climate change and the costs to mitigate them in order to protect the American people. This report brings us no closer to knowing them. It is unacceptable that the Department has ignored the clear instructions provided by law, and it is unacceptable that our service members and readiness will suffer as a result,” concluded Langevin. “I expect the Department to reissue a report that meets its statutory mandate and rigorously confronts the realities of our warming planet.”
1.4.2019	Washington, D.C. – House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement about President Trump’s announcement that he is considering an attempt to misuse a declaration of national emergency in order to divert military construction readiness funds and spend the money on his border wall: “President Trump is considering a plan to misuse an emergency authority and divert substantial resources from our military to build a wall on the southern border. This is as clear a statement as any that President Trump values the construction of his wall over military readiness and support for our troops and their families. Diverting money from these military construction accounts could have substantial impacts for servicemembers at installations across the country and on defense projects that are important in supporting readiness, training, operations, and quality of life for military personnel and their families. “Moreover, by abusing this authority, President Trump would be saying that he does not actually believe all the money he requests for our country’s defense is needed for legitimate national security purposes. That would raise major questions about his credibility when he requests his next defense budget from Congress. “I am adamantly opposed to President Trump using an unwise, weak, and irresponsible legal gimmick to circumvent Congress and the American people’s opposition to using taxpayer money for the construction of an unnecessary wall.”
1.4.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.—The House Democratic Conference today selected Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) to serve as Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee in the 116th Congress. “This is an extremely challenging time for our country and the world. We are in dire need of oversight from Congress and principled, coherent thinking on U.S. national defense strategy. The Armed Services Committee has a long track record of working in a bipartisan manner to advance U.S. national security policy, and I look forward to working with Ranking Member Thornberry to make that happen. “As Chairman, I will work with my colleagues to promote transparency and Congressional oversight, enhance military readiness, combat inefficiency and waste at DOD, advance green technology in defense and address the threat climate change poses to our national security, fight for an inclusive military, and move towards a responsible approach to nuclear weapons.”
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in support of the First Step Act, bipartisan criminal justice reform legislation which passed the House today by a vote of 358-36. “For too long, our broken criminal justice system has harshly condemned those who have offended and served their sentences to failure. Draconian sentencing practices disproportionately hurt communities of color and have led to mass incarceration. Today, with passage of the First Step Act, we are beginning the long-overdue process to correct these historical wrongs and ensure everyone is treated equally under the law. “This bill provides retroactive relief under the Fair Sentencing Act, giving a path to freedom for thousands of people serving excessive sentences on crack cocaine charges. It draws upon aspects of the Second Chance Act, prioritizing funding for reentry programs that have been proven to reduce recidivism and lead to better outcomes for those released from prison. Additionally, the legislation will prohibit the solitary confinement of juveniles in federal facilities as called for in the Mercy Act. “The First Step Act provides a foundation for Congress to enact greater reforms to improve our criminal justice system. Congress must build upon this legislation to push for restorative justice programs at both the federal and state levels in support of a fairer criminal justice system.”
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith sent a letter to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Acting Administrator Daniel Elwell urging the agency to implement guidance in response to Section 1044 of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Smith secured this provision in the legislation to allow Highline School District to qualify for over $14 million in Airport Improvement Grant (AIP) funds that the school district was promised in 2002. “Highline School District needs the FAA to implement guidance my amendment calls for so that the district can apply for the funding that it was promised in 2002 and that Congress clarified the FAA should provide. My hope is that the FAA acts quickly and that both Highline High School and Des Moines Elementary can finally apply for funding to finish critical construction projects that will allow the school district’s students to have quiet learning environments free from distraction and noise annoyances.” Background: Sea-Tac Airport is located in the center of Highline School District and many of the district’s schools are impacted by airport noise. A 2002 Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the Port of Seattle, the FAA, and Highline School District outlined noise mitigation for a number of Highline School District schools. Since the MOA was signed, the Port and the Highline School District met their portion of the funding obligation. During that time, the noise contours around the airport changed, leaving the two schools in areas where they did not qualify for the previously agreed upon funding. The bipartisan and bicameral amendment that clarified the FAA’s ability to provide the funding promised in the 2002 MOA was incorporated into the FY 2019 NDAA and was signed into law. The full text of the letter can be found below. December 20, 2018 The Honorable Daniel K. Elwell Acting Administrator Federal Aviation Administration U.S. Department of Transportation 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 Dear Acting Administrator Elwell: As you work to implement the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, I urge you to swiftly provide guidance related to implementation of Section 1044 of that Act, which clarifies the reimbursable allowed costs of FAA Memoranda of Agreement. Section 1044 is a provision that affects seven public schools in the congressional district I represent. In 2002, the Highline School District entered into a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Port of Seattle. This agreement was for noise mitigation at several schools in the Highline School District, which are located near the Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (Sea-Tac). Of the fifteen schools identified in the original agreement, eight have already been funded. Due to changing noise contours and delayed construction by the school district, the FAA raised questions about the continued eligibility of the remaining seven schools, putting at risk critical federal and Port funding at a time when the Highline School District had passed a bond levy and began construction at two of the schools. Section 1044 was negotiated on a bipartisan, bicameral basis to help resolve this issue and provide Highline School District with the critical funding eligibility needed to foster a safe and healthy learning environment for the students of those schools. In order for the Port of Seattle and Highline High School District to apply for the remaining AIP funding needed to begin construction at these two schools, guidance by the FAA must be issued. I encourage the agency to act quickly on the direction from Congress and provide guidance pursuant to the implementation of Section 1044 of the FY 2019 NDAA, so that the Port of Seattle and Highline School District may apply for the funding that was agreed to in the 2002 MOA. Thank you very much for your consideration on this matter. Sincerely, Adam Smith Member of Congress
12.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Adam Smith’s (WA-09) legislation designating the post office at 4301 NE 4th Street in Renton, Washington as the James Marshall “Jimi” Hendrix Post Office passed the Senate by Unanimous Consent following its previous passage in the House of Representatives. The legislation was supported by both Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), as well as each member of the Washington State Delegation in the House. The bill now heads to the President’s desk for signature. “I am honored to join in paying tribute to rock and roll icon and Seattle native Jimi Hendrix with the renaming of the Renton Highlands Post Office as the James Marshall ‘Jimi’ Hendrix Post Office Building. This designation will further celebrate Hendrix’s deep connection to the Puget Sound region and help ensure that his creative legacy will be remembered by our community and inspire future generations.” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Jimi Hendrix is one of the most influential American artists of all time. This Seattle native son, is truly one of the most celebrated musicians of the 20th century. In honor of his memory and service to our country, it is truly fitting that we move forward in naming the United States Postal Service located at 4301 Northeast 4th Street in Renton, Washington, as the James Marshall ‘Jimi’ Hendrix Post Office Building. The Urban League of Metropolitan Seattle strongly supports this effort and applauds Congress for reminding those that patron this facility that his legacy lives on and his memory is etched in the fabric of our country and community,” said Michelle Merriweather, the President and CEO of the Urban League of Metropolitan Seattle. “The Northwest African American Museum fully supports the renaming of a local post office to bear the name of Seattle's most recognizable native son, Jimi Hendrix. His legendary artistic genius chartered new territory within world music. While his reach was international in scope, his roots trace back to Seattle and we are proud to richly celebrate his legacy as part of his hometown community. This bill, led by U.S. Congressman Adam Smith, will provide a fitting tribute to a Seattle-born global icon whose humility, generosity, musical giftedness, and timeless brilliance will inspire for generations to come,” said LaNesha DeBardelaben, the Director of Northwest African American Museum.
12.12.2018	“Today, I voted in support of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, legislation that is also commonly known as the Farm Bill. This legislation provides critical nutrition assistance to individuals and families who rely on help from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and Washington’s Basic Food Employment and Training Program (BFET). Seniors, low-income families, children, veterans, and those with disabilities participate in these programs to help ensure they stay healthy and have access to food. Local food banks across Washington state count on the availability of these benefits to service communities in need. “I am also pleased that the Conference Report did not include dangerous environmental provisions and harmful changes to SNAP. Congress has a responsibility to ensure that our farm policy supports nutritional assistance for those that are food-insecure, and that farming is done sustainably with minimal harm to the environment. This bill makes meaningful investments in nutrition programs and avoids disastrous cuts to environmental programs that would have taken our farm policy backwards.”
12.7.2018	“I continue to strongly question the deployment of U.S. military servicemembers at our southern border. Furthermore, the decision to extend this deployment to the end of January 2019 is not a responsible use of Department of Defense resources and is the completely wrong approach to the situation. To date, there has not been adequate justification for the use of our military personnel in this way, which is why I have questioned this decision from the beginning. “The President’s dangerous rhetoric referring to people seeking asylum as an ‘invasion’ deeply misrepresents the situation and needlessly ramps up tension. There is no question that we face a challenge with a rise in the number of people seeking asylum. However, the response should not be deploying troops to our border, but instead increasing resources to process asylum applications, including additional judges and asylum officers. “Additionally, the continued practice of detaining asylum seekers is inhumane and the cost is overwhelming. It’s abhorrent that there are over 40,000 people in custody in detention centers across the U.S. when we know alternatives to detention are proven to be effective at ensuring compliance with immigration proceedings, and drastically less costly than detention. “Directing military servicemembers to ‘harden the border’ and provide vague support to Customs and Border Protection misses the point entirely. These people are fleeing violence and persecution to seek asylum. They are turning themselves in, not circumventing our laws. This continued expansion of the use of Department of Defense resources and personnel to fulfill the misguided immigration agenda of this administration, which is not part of the mission of the Department of Defense, must come to an end.”
12.4.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement about the Trump administration’s decision to declare Russia in material breach of the Intermediate Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty without meaningfully consulting U.S. allies and partners, and its declaration of intent to begin withdrawing from the accord in 60 days: “The Trump administration is unilaterally taking action on the INF Treaty without meaningful consultation and coordination with our NATO allies. Setting us on a precipitous course toward withdrawal from this treaty undermines the NATO alliance and transatlantic security, while playing directly into President Putin’s plans to divide us. It is no secret that some of President Trump’s advisers are more focused on promoting U.S. withdrawal from its international commitments than prioritizing the collective security of America and its partners and allies. The Trump administration should instead work with our allies to take meaningful actions to hold Russia accountable for its violation of the treaty, press Russia back into compliance, and avoid a new arms race.”
11.29.2018	Smith, Murray, Cantwell and Jayapal Call for Answers and Transparency in Death of Asylum Seeker at Northwest Detention Center Washington, DC – This week, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) led a letter with Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) demanding answers surrounding the recent death of Mergensana Amar, a Russian asylum seeker detained in the custody of ICE at the Northwest Detention Center in Tacoma, Washington. In the letter, the lawmakers call for transparency and a thorough understanding of the circumstances and actions taken leading up to Mr. Amar’s death. The Members write in part, “The federal government has a solemn duty to care for and protect those within its custody, including individuals detained by ICE… We request that you provide information to our offices regarding the circumstances surrounding the treatment and care for Mr. Amar, and what improvements you will make to avoid other similar tragedies in the future.” The full text of the letter can be found below and here. Acting Director Ronald D. Vitiello U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Department of Homeland Security 500 12th Street SW Washington, D.C. 20536 Dear Acting Director Vitiello: We are deeply saddened by the recent death of Mergensana Amar, a Russian asylum seeker detained in the custody of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at the Northwest Detention Center in Tacoma, Washington. The federal government has a solemn duty to care for and protect those within its custody, including individuals detained by ICE. News of Mr. Amar’s death follows a report condemning conditions in ICE’s Adelanto Detention Center in California.[1] The report recounts nooses found hanging in cells, lack of adequate mental health services, and access to medical care at the facility.[2] In light of this report, we are particularly alarmed by tragic news of Mr. Amar’s suicide, and are concerned with ICE practice and protocol for preventing such deaths moving forward. We request that you provide information to our offices regarding the circumstances surrounding the treatment and care for Mr. Amar, and what improvements you will make to avoid other similar tragedies in the future. Please provide the following information and answers to questions by Tuesday December 11, 2018: A copy of any detainee death reviews and reports related to Mr. Amar. A detailed timeline of where Mr. Amar was located within the Northwest Detention Center (segregation/solitary confinement, general population, health unit, or elsewhere), and rationale for each instance in which he was moved. A copy of any review of Mr. Amar’s placement in segregation, as required by the September 2013 ICE Segregation Memo. A detailed timeline of exactly what medical services were provided, when they were provided, and the results of any medical evaluations. A copy of the court order ICE obtained for involuntary hydration as well as any records that indicate how ICE used this order. ICE stated that Mr. Amar “remained in good physical health prior to this incident” – by what measures was he determined to be in good physical health? Who determined that he was in good physical health? Did ICE conduct mental health checks? How often, by whom, and in what manner? At any point in time, did anyone question whether Mr. Amar was a threat to his own safety? If so, at what point was this determined by ICE and what was the rationale? If a determination was made that he was a threat to his own safety, what actions were taken and procedures followed to prevent Mr. Amar from harming himself? While he was on hunger strike, was Mr. Amar threatened with force feeding? Was Mr. Amar denied privileges, such as access to the law library, telephone, television, or other privileges while he was on hunger strike? Based on your death review findings related to Mr. Amar, what changes, improvements to policy and protocol, and best practices will you implement to ensure the health and safety of detainees, and to prevent similar health related tragedies from occurring again. It is imperative that there be transparency and a thorough understanding of the circumstances and actions taken leading up to Mr. Amar’s death. We look forward to hearing from you promptly. Sincerely,
11.29.2018	Washington, DC – Following the death of Mergansana Amar, a Russian asylum seeker detained in the custody of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement at the Northwest Detention Center (NWDC) in Tacoma, Washington, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Patty Murray (D-WA) and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) sent a letter to the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General requesting a comprehensive inspection and review of the conditions at the NWDC and an investigation into the death of Mr. Amar. The Members write in part, “There is a clear pattern that indicates a severe lack of oversight and repeated failures to make sufficient improvements by ICE and private contractors operating detention facilities… It’s vital that we understand what happened and what improvements must be made to address safety and health risks that could otherwise lead to similar tragic incidents in the future.” The full text of the letter can be found below and here. The Honorable John V. Kelly Acting Inspector General Office of the Inspector General U.S. Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane SW Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Acting Inspector General Kelly: We write to urge the Office of Inspector General (OIG) to conduct a thorough investigation of the death of Mergansana Amar, a Russian asylum seeker detained in the custody of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at the Northwest Detention Center (NWDC) in Tacoma, Washington. In addition, we urge you to conduct a comprehensive inspection and review of the conditions at the NWDC, including potential retaliation against detainee whistleblowers. The Northwest Detention Center is operated by the GEO Group, which is the same private contractor that operates the Adelanto ICE Processing Center in California. As you are aware, Adelanto was the subject of a recent report from your office which condemned conditions at the facility. The Management Alert, issued by the OIG on September 27, 2018, recounts conditions that pose “significant health and safety risks at the facility.” The report identified several risks that showed improper and overly restrictive segregation and inadequate medical care at the GEO-run facility. Among many alarming observations, the OIG found that medical providers at Adelanto prematurely and inappropriately placed detainees in disciplinary segregation, improperly handcuffed and shackled detainees, failed to provide necessary auxiliary aids or translated materials regarding their segregations, and that in 10 of 14 instances the required direct communication with detainees and medical or mental health staff was not conducted. We are alarmed by the similarities between findings by the OIG at Adelanto and reports our offices have received regarding conditions at the NWDC. Individuals detained at the NWDC have engaged in a series of hunger strikes over the past four years to highlight ongoing concerns, including alleged abuse of solitary confinement and failure to provide prompt and adequate medical treatment. Our staff have visited the facility multiple times and heard from NWDC staff and detainees about shortages in health care and mental health care providers. Furthermore, we have received reports GEO Group and ICE retaliated against people who spoke out about their treatment at the NWDC. These issues are especially relevant in the context of Mr. Amar’s death, who had been engaged in a hunger strike and found to be at risk of suicide by ICE. As you are aware, findings of negligent care and unsafe conditions at detention centers across the country have not been isolated incidents. Since the OIG began conducting unannounced inspections in 2017, it released three reports on surprise inspections at ICE facilities revealing conditions that undermine the health and safety of detainees. Moreover, just this week, an autopsy report found Roxsana Hernandez Rodriguez, a 33-year-old transgender asylum seeker from Honduras detained at a private detention center in New Mexico, was physically abused in detention and died after several days of severe, untreated dehydration. These reports are unacceptable. There is a clear pattern that suggests a severe lack of oversight and repeated failures to make sufficient improvements by ICE and private contractors operating detention facilities. We understand there are existing internal processes within ICE to inspect detention facilities and investigate deaths. However, reports published on December 11, 2017 and June 26, 2018 by your office indicated that these processes often do not lead to any improvements in practices and conditions, and ICE has not effectively held private facilities accountable for adhering to ICE’s detention standards. Clearly, these processes are not working and are failing to protect the wellbeing of detainees. A full investigation by the Office of Inspector General into Mr. Amar’s death and a comprehensive inspection and review of the conditions at the Northwest Detention Center is imperative. It’s vital that we understand what happened and what improvements must be made to address safety and health risks that could otherwise lead to similar tragic incidents in the future. Sincerely,
11.28.2018	Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act Passes House Washington, DC – Representatives Adam Smith (D-WA), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ted Poe (R-TX), Michael McCaul (R-TX), and Bill Keating (D-MA) today applauded the House passage of their bipartisan bill, the Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act. This legislation would improve U.S. engagement in fragile and unstable countries to reduce violence and address the conditions that create safe havens for terrorists, criminal networks, and war lords. “Instability across the world continues to lead to the displacement of millions of people. In response to the unprecedented refugee crisis caused by the rise in conflict, famine and disease, the U.S. must be a leader in addressing the root causes of violence and fragility. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act is a significant step in bringing together defense, diplomatic, and development stakeholders to better tackle these complex challenges,” said Rep. Smith, Ranking Member of the Committee on Armed Services. “Around the world, levels of violence are at a 25-year high, driving massive instability. This is a global security threat, as fragile, unstable states are breeding grounds for criminals and terrorists,” said Rep. Engel, Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the House floor. “Over the years, we have learned a lot about what works to stabilize conflicts and prevent violence from breaking out. We need to update our government policies to implement those lessons. This bill does just that, by establishing an initiative to reduce fragility and violence that will align American policy and programs with best practices.” “Around the globe today, nations plagued by conflict and violence pose serious challenges for our interests abroad and security at home,” said Rep. Poe, Chair of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. “Terrorists and rogue regimes have long exploited fragile states to operate beyond the rule of law and promote extremism. Meanwhile, the various departments and agencies of the U.S. government charged with conducting our foreign policy have responded to these challenges with ad hoc fixes that avoid addressing underlying causes of instability and lack interagency coordination and proper Congressional oversight. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act will fix these mistakes by requiring coordinated long-term strategies presented to Congress that target the core cause of violence and instability in trouble nations around the world. Through a smarter, planned process, our diplomats, military, and USAID staff can use our foreign aid dollars more effectively and efficiently, instead of endless assistance programs that only apply triage to persistent conflicts. I thank Ranking Member Engel, Rep. Smith, and Rep. McCaul for their hard work on this important bill.” “Today, the House took an important step to reduce worldwide violence and improve international stability. Violence and brutal conflict costs the global economy over $14 trillion a year and creates environments where large-scale international responses are needed to stop the struggle and deliver humanitarian aid. This legislation directs USAID, the State Department, and the Defense Department to work with other relevant agencies in crafting an integrated strategy in a number of these ‘fragile states.’ The strategy would focus on preventing the total breakdown of government, while also denying terrorist groups the unstable, fertile territory from which they recruit,” said Rep. McCaul, Chair of the Committee on Homeland Security. “By proactively prioritizing the necessary resources and with our federal departments working in unison, we will be better positioned to eliminate terrorist safe havens, stimulate global stability, and avoid large-scale international interventions.” “As a senior Member of the Foreign Affairs and Homeland Security Committees, it could not be clearer to me that to be safer here at home, we need to address the root causes of fragility that leave communities around the world vulnerable to conflict and extremism. That’s exactly what this bill does. It requires an interagency strategy and a pilot program so that our resources are not only better coordinated to have a greater impact, but so that we also learn as much as possible about how to best combat this problem,” said Rep. Keating, Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade and Co-Chair of the Congressional Counterterrorism Caucus. “We have lost so many lives and expended so much on conflicts that don’t seem to ever get resolved. Addressing fragility brings us closer to the root causes of these conflicts and we owe it to our servicemen and women, to members of our foreign service, and to the American people to do that. Time and again, our research has shown that focusing on fragility will be a much more effective way of creating more sustainable peace and security around the world.” Background Violence and violent conflict have become the leading causes of displacement worldwide, resulting in an unprecedented 68.5 million forcibly displaced people, while preventable violence kills at least 1.4 million people annually. Containing violence costs the global economy $14.7 trillion a year (12.4% of world GDP). US National Security Strategies over the past 15 years affirm that America has a national security interest in better preventing and mitigating violence, violent conflict, and fragility. Lessons learned over the past 20 years show that doing so will require more clearly defined goals, strategies, and interagency coordination. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act charges the State Department, Defense Department, and USAID with designating at least 6 priority countries or regions and implementing 10-year plans for addressing violence and fragility in those areas. The bill requires these departments and agencies to apply lessons learned and robust standards for measuring effectiveness and adapting programs based on results. The legislation is endorsed by: Alliance for Peacebuilding, American Friends Service Committee, Bread for the World, CARE, Carl Wilkens Fellows, Center for Civilians in Conflict (CIVIC), Center on Conscience & War, Charity & Security Network, Chemonics, Church of the Brethren Office of Public Witness, Conciliation Resources, Congregation of Our Lady of Charity of the Good Shepherd US Provinces, Cure Violence, Educators’ Institute for Human Rights, Foreign Policy 4 America, Franciscan Action Network, Friends Committee on National Legislation (FCNL), Future Without Violence, Global Communities, Global Water 2020, Humanity United Action, i-ACT, In Defense of Christians, Institute for Multi-Track Diplomacy, InterAction, International Alert, International Civil Society Action Network, International Crisis Group (ICG), International Rescue Committee, Jewish World Watch, Karuna Center for Peacebuilding, Mercy Corps, National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, National Latino Evangelical Coalition, Never Again Coalition, Nuru International, Pax Christi International, Pax Christi USA, Peace Direct, PRBB Foundation, Saferworld, Search for Common Ground, STAND, Stop Genocide Now, United Church of Christ, Women for Afghan Women, World Relief, and World Vision.
11.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement about President Trump’s order regarding deployment of the military to the southern border: “I strongly oppose the President's recent change in policy granting the military expanded authority regarding the use of lethal force, detention and search of civilians, and crowd control on our southern border. This guidance is unwise, unnecessary, and likely illegal. It is unwise because the President is creating a dangerous situation where thousands of armed troops are being asked to operate under vague and unclear rules of engagement. It is unnecessary because there is no evidence that the U.S. Border Patrol isn't capable of handling the situation on its own. The guidance is likely illegal because the military is prohibited from conducting law enforcement activities in the United States by the Posse Comitatus Act. “This deployment has been a politically motivated stunt from its inception, and it is putting the U.S. military in an inappropriate position while undermining service members’ ability to train and perform their appropriate functions. At its core, this political stunt continues to be an exercise in fearmongering with the intention of inaccurately portraying asylum seekers as dangerous. Even more troubling, this decision appears to be driven by a group of anti-immigration fanatics in the White House who refuse to listen to legal and policy advice from experts while not even involving senior DOD and military leaders in the policy deliberations. “I am extremely disappointed with the way that the administration has been stonewalling Congress. The public deserves transparency regarding the decision to initiate this deployment, and the justification for a change in the authority under which our troops are operating. We need to know what the mission is, what exactly our troops are doing, how long the deployments will last, and how much it is going to cost. “President Trump’s actions have potentially grave implications for the rule of law and it is essential that Congress get to the bottom of this misuse of our armed forces. For these reasons, the border deployment will be among the first oversight issues that the Armed Services Committee takes up in the new Congress.” House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith sent the following letter to President Trump regarding recent guidance to U.S. military forces at the southern border. November 23, 2018 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, I am writing because of your administration’s recent decision to grant legal authority for active duty personnel along the southern border to act as an extension of law enforcement. This decision raises serious legal questions, puts our armed forces in an untenable position, and further reduces their readiness. The activities described in the memorandum signed, at your direction, by your Chief of Staff include “a show or use of force (including lethal force, where necessary), crowd control, temporary detention, and cursory search.” This is yet another unnecessary step towards the militarization of the southern border and is not a proportionate response to individuals that wish to legally seek asylum as they flee violence and persecution in their countries. Furthermore, the activities described in the memorandum may be a violation of existing federal laws, such as the Posse Comitatus Act (18 USC 1385) or limitations on troops’ participation certain law enforcement activities (10 USC 275). I am also concerned by the continued lack of transparency and limited information being provided to Congress on Department of Defense operations along the southern border. Congress has frequently heard about decisions made or actions taken through the press rather than hearing directly from your Administration. This includes this most recent memorandum issued the week of Thanksgiving. With that in mind, I request the following information be provided in response to this letter: (1) a detailed justification, to include any classified or unclassified threat assessment, for issuing the directive that military personnel be used to conduct activities that could be considered law enforcement activities; (2) an assessment of the capability and capacity of U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents, and any gaps or limitations that were identified in the context of the current caravans, that warrant the use of active duty military personnel in potential law enforcement activities described in the memorandum; (3) a legal opinion and specific statutory authorities cited to justify how the potential actions authorized by the memorandum are in compliance with current law and not in contradiction to previously referenced statutory limitations; (4) a list of the equipment and weapons that military personnel will be authorized to carry and use in performance of the expanded mission; (5) details of the specific training, to include foreign language training and training on the legal rights of individuals to seek asylum, that military personnel will be provided prior to the performance of the expanded mission; (6) the cost to-date of utilizing 5,800 active duty and 2,100 National Guard personnel along the southern border, the expected length the deployment is expected to take place beyond December 15, 2018, and the expected total cost of the Department of Defense’s activities along the southern border, and specific funding sources, in fiscal year 2019; (7) the specific mission assigned to each unit supporting the southern border deployment and plans to transition these responsibilities back to the Department of Homeland Security; (8) what facilities military personnel would use to temporarily detain individuals under the new authority, what certifications are in place to ensure facilities are adequate for children and families, what time limits are in place for length of detention, what training and capabilities the troops have in providing care to asylum seekers in their detention, and what process is in place to ensure individuals detained by our military are transferred into the existing lawful asylum seeking process. I hope that you will reconsider this recent decision and de-escalate the situation by removing active duty troops from the southern border. Sincerely, Adam Smith Ranking Member
11.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement about the Trump Administration’s request that the Supreme Court take up his ban on transgender military service: “President Trump’s ban on transgender military service is utterly discriminatory and unconstitutional. Anyone who is qualified should be allowed to serve their country openly, and not be punished for their patriotism due to an arbitrary and bigoted limitation that the President announced in a tweet. We have fought this policy every step of the way, and if the Supreme Court takes up this issue, we will continue to fight it there.”
11.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement about reports that President Trump is withdrawing some of the military forces he recently sent to the border: “The reports that President Trump is planning to withdraw some of the troops he sent to the border two weeks ago indicate just how empty, demagogic, and racially motivated this political stunt was. It appears to be an admission that there was no justification for the mission in the first place. It was not a respectful use of our military to take service members away from their duties and send them to the border as politicized props, and President Trump should not have done it. And there remains no rational explanation for the presence of those active duty troops who remain on the border. They should all be returned to their regular duties.”
11.15.2018	Washington D.C. – WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) joined the lead sponsor Representative Chris Smith (R-NJ) in introduction of the Outdoor Recreation Therapy for Veterans Act to help expand opportunities for veterans to access the outdoors for medical care and therapy: “Access to the outdoors is proven to have a positive impact on mental health and physical wellbeing. For our veterans, the healing effects of nature can be especially powerful,” said Rep. Adam Smith. “In Washington state, we know the incredible benefits that come from spending time in nature, and we owe it to our servicemen and women to open the door to all avenues of recovery when they return home. I am honored to be joining with Rep. Chris Smith in the introduction of this bi-partisan legislation to help connect our nation’s veterans with the great outdoors. By bringing together stakeholders from the VA and Land Management, we are building a foundation that will ensure that our veterans and their families can experience the restorative power of the public lands their service to our country has protected.” “Studies have shown that outdoor recreation can also produce holistic, therapeutic benefits for veterans, and this is yet another treatment option that we should consider for veterans who want it,” said Rep. Chris Smith. “Our military service men and women deserve support in every way, and we should explore all avenues, great and small, of providing care and treatment for them. My legislation would help expand access to federal lands for outdoor recreation and should be part of our comprehensive response—a small part, but an important one nevertheless—in veteran care.” A 2013 report by the Sierra Club said that of a sample study of veterans who took part in month-long group wilderness recreation programs, participants exhibited “significant improvements in psychological well-being, social functioning, and life outlook.” The Outdoor Recreation Therapy for Veterans Act, would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish, within 180 days of enactment, an inter-agency task force to be co-chaired by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of the Interior and including the Secretary of HHS, Secretary of Agriculture, Secretary of Defense as members. The task force would seek to increase the availability of federal lands for use for medical therapy for veterans. The task force would also help increase coordination between the Department of Veterans Affairs and public land agencies on using public lands for therapy and medical treatment. The bill is supported by a number of outdoor recreation and veterans advocacy groups, including Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Minority Veterans of America, Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), Blue Star Families, Vet Voice Foundation, National Parks Conservation Association, PeopleForBikes, Outdoor Alliance, and Outdoor Industry Association. Veterans of Foreign Wars “Outdoor recreations such as hunting and fishing provide camaraderie and healing for veterans who struggle with the wounds of war. The VFW supports expanding such opportunities for veterans and thanks Congressman Chris Smith for introducing the Accelerating Veterans Recovery Outdoors Act,” said VFW National Legislative Service Director Carlos Fuentes. “This bill would ensure barriers to accessing outdoor activities that assist veterans are evaluated and removed if needed.” Disabled American Veterans “Year after year, events like the DAV and VA co-sponsored National Disabled Veterans Winter Sports Clinic and National Disabled Veterans TEE Tournament, prove the life-changing, therapeutic power of outdoor recreation,” said Disabled American Veterans (DAV) National Commander, Dennis Nixon. “DAV is pleased to support The Outdoor Recreation Therapy for Veterans Act as it could provide even more places and opportunities for injured and ill veterans to thrive and rebuild their lives through this invaluable form of alternative therapy.” Minority Veterans of America “Being outdoors in nature saved my life! During my transition from the Army, I felt as if everything around me was crashing. I endured through hopelessness, despair, lost...I became suicidal, again, and had even attempted to end my life. I have always loved being active and pushed myself to go hiking one weekend in the Olympics. For the first time in years, I felt whole again, as if I belonged in this world. Two years later, I plan to hike the Appalachian Trail in 2019. Veterans have demanded for years outdoor recreation programs be a part of our mental health treatment,” said Robert White, VP of Internal Relations for Minority Veterans of America. “It is long overdue for the VA to recognize this basic, yet vital need...they now have the opportunity to begin providing Veterans with this service!” Blue Star Families “The outdoors provide military families a much-needed place of recreation, rejuvenation, and healing. At Blue Star Families, programs such as Blue Star Parks connect the military community to nature, because the parks make a difference,” stated Kathy Roth-Douquet, Founder and CEO of Blue Star Families. “An overwhelming majority of military families report that visiting parks provides a much-needed outlet from the stress of their daily lives. We commend this bi-partisan bill from Congressmen Chris Smith and Adam Smith because it will make our nation's backyard more accessible for our veteran community and their families. Protecting and preserving these beautiful lands is one of the reasons we serve and sacrifice, so it means so much to us to enjoy them with our families.” National Parks Conservation Association “This study is needed to recognize the healing power of the outdoors for all users, especially our military veterans. The benefits are real to anyone who has enjoyed our parks and public lands,” said Ani Kame’enui, Legislative Director of the National Parks Conservation Association. University of Washington “Preliminary evidence suggests that outdoor hiking—combining the benefits of nature contact, group bonding, and physical activity—may be effective in treating veterans who suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). We also know that nature contact has been shown to reduce stress and anxiety, and is associated with decreased likelihood of depression,” said Gregory Bratman, Doug Walker Endowed Professor of Environmental and Forest Sciences at the University of Washington. “This bill would provide an opportunity to maximize use of federal lands to gain more understanding about the ways in which nature experience benefits the people who have served our country, informing the design of future interventions aimed at addressing their pressing mental and physical health needs.” REI Co-op “At REI Co-op, we believe a life outdoors is a life well-lived. It can even be healing, especially for our veterans who have sacrificed much of their lives to protect our nation,” said Jerry Stritzke, REI’s President and CEO. “We owe them our gratitude not just today, but every day. So, we applaud congressmen Chris Smith and Adam Smith for taking this basic step, instructing the VA and the nation’s land managers to determine how our lands can be used to help our veterans heal. We know the outdoors is good for you. It’s only right that we make it as easy as possible for our veterans to rejuvenate among the country’s natural wonders.” The Vet Voice Foundation The Vet Voice Foundation said in a statement: “The Vet Voice Foundation strongly endorses the bi-partisan bill co-sponsored by Representatives Chris Smith and Adam Smith, to establish a task force on the use of Federal Lands for treatment and therapy through outdoor recreation for Veterans. The health benefits of the outdoors to help our Veteran men and women to walk off the war have long been recognized. We 500,000 members of the VVF applaud this initiative.”
11.14.2018	Washington, DC – House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement after House Republican leadership blocked debate on a bipartisan privileged resolution led by Representatives Smith, Ro Khanna, and Mark Pocan: “The decision by House Republicans to deprivilege the Yemen resolution undermines the responsibility of Congress to have a transparent debate on U.S. engagement in the civil war in Yemen. As the Yemeni people face the worst humanitarian crisis in the world, the urgency and need for Congressional attention could not be greater. “There are no easy answers to finding a peaceful resolution to the civil war in Yemen. However, ducking the debate in Congress on what role the U.S. should have in Yemen undermines a Congressional imperative to examine the issue. A Democratic majority in the new Congress must reassert close oversight regarding Yemen.”
11.11.2018	Today, Representatives Adam Smith (WA-09), Ro Khanna (CA-17), and Mark Pocan (WI-02), leaders of H. Con Res. 138 in the House, released the following statement in response to the announcement that the U.S. will be halting the refueling of Saudi-coalition aircraft in Yemen: “Ending U.S. refueling of Saudi-led coalition aircraft is an encouraging step towards ending U.S. involvement in the Yemen civil conflict. The Yemeni people are facing the world’s gravest humanitarian crisis. The U.S. should be squarely focused on alleviating this crisis and doing everything we can to encourage an end to the civil conflict that has exacerbated the dire humanitarian situation. Picking sides and supporting the Saudi-coalition is contrary to those goals. In addition to ending refueling efforts, the United States should pause sales of offensive weapons to Saudi Arabia. The announcement to end refueling comes on the heels of provisions included in the NDAA signed into law in August calling out U.S. refueling of Saudi-coalition aircraft, showing that oversight from Congress has an impact on pushing this administration to end U.S. involvement. Congress should send a clear message that the U.S. should not be engaged in the Yemeni civil conflict by passing H. Con. Res 138 during the lame duck.”
11.11.2018	Each Veterans Day, we join together to honor the men and women who have served our country. We owe these brave Americans our respect and our freedom and extend our gratitude to them and their families for the sacrifices they have made. After their military service, our veterans continue to give back as valuable members of our community. As the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have the honor of representing the thousands of veterans who call the Puget Sound region home. I have consistently worked to ensure that our veterans receive the high-quality care and support they deserve for their years of faithful service. We must continue to improve health care for current and former servicemen and women, and improve transitional support and job training programs for departing members of the military. On Veterans Day, we recommit to fulfilling our promise to our service members, their families and our veterans.
11.8.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) announced his bid to run for Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, Smith sent the following letter to his Democratic colleagues in the House of Representatives: “Together, we have made strides on national security issues but much more must be done to conduct vigorous oversight of the Trump Administration and the Department of Defense. Specifically, we must look to eliminate inefficiency and waste at the DOD; boost oversight of sensitive military operations and ensure that the military works to avoid civilian casualties; protect our environmental laws nationwide; advance green technology in defense; take substantial steps to reduce America’s overreliance on nuclear weapons; and promote greater transparency in national security matters. “It is important that we have a military that reflects the United States in all of its diversity as well as a Defense Department that engages with businesses of all sizes and from all communities. We need inclusive armed services that can attract the best, most talented people without arbitrary and discriminatory barriers that narrow the field of people who can serve their country. I will continue to work with you to ensure that the United States’ military is equipped to play an effective role in our defense, while appropriately responding to new and evolving threats and challenges. It is critical that we ensure our service members and their families continue to have access to quality benefits, assistance programs, and medical care.” Below is the full text of the letter: Dear Democratic Colleagues: During the 115th Congress, it has been an honor to serve as the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Armed Services and represent the Democratic Caucus on national security matters. As we begin to organize for the 116th Congress, I am asking for your support to serve our caucus as Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services. Together, we have made strides on national security issues but much more must be done to conduct vigorous oversight of the Trump Administration and the Department of Defense. Specifically, we must look to eliminate inefficiency and waste at the DOD; boost oversight of sensitive military operations and ensure that the military works to avoid civilian casualties; protect our environmental laws nationwide; advance green technology in defense; take substantial steps to reduce America’s overreliance on nuclear weapons; and promote greater transparency in national security matters. It is important that we have a military that reflects the United States in all of its diversity as well as a Defense Department that engages with businesses of all sizes and from all communities. We need inclusive armed services that can attract the best, most talented people without arbitrary and discriminatory barriers that narrow the field of people who can serve their country. I will continue to work with you to ensure that the United States’ military is equipped to play an effective role in our defense, while appropriately responding to new and evolving threats and challenges. It is critical that we ensure our service members and their families continue to have access to quality benefits, assistance programs, and medical care. Every Member of our caucus has an interest in national security and their voices need to be heard. As Ranking Member, I have always sought to remain available to all Members and have valued the opportunity to visit military installations in districts throughout the country. Through these visits, and in numerous conversations with Members of our caucus, I have gained a greater understanding of the issues our constituents face. This outreach has given me greater opportunities to advance policies that are at the core of our Democratic values and principles. As our country continues to face great challenges, I am committed to fighting for the national security principles and goals of the Democratic Caucus. I want to make sure every Member knows I will always have an open door for them and their staffs on issues that are important to them. While we organize for the 116th Congress, I would be honored to receive your support to serve as the Chairman of the House Committee on Armed Services. If you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to me directly at 202-225-8901.
11.7.2018	Washington D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in response to the resignation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “As Attorney General, Jeff Sessions actively undermined voting rights and civil rights. Sessions has a horrific record when it comes to protecting the individual rights of American citizens, and I expressed my serious concerns with him at the time that he was nominated. I am however, worried that Sessions’ firing today could possibly signal an effort by President Trump to undermine the ongoing Mueller investigation into the foreign interference that took place during the 2016 election. We in Congress will do everything we can to push back against that eventuality. We must affirm our commitment to protecting the integrity of the Mueller investigation and making sure the President does not interfere with its conclusions.”
11.1.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), House Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), House Oversight & Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), and 104 other House Democrats sent a letter calling on Secretary Mattis to provide answers about his deployment of 5,200 additional U.S. troops to the border, including how much the deployment will cost, how long the deployment will last, and what the rules of engagement will be. “The United States can maintain a secure border and the rule of law while still upholding our country’s values to protect those fleeing persecution and violence. The use of military personnel, however, will not help us meet this challenge and only exacerbates the potential to unnecessarily escalate the situation,” the Members wrote in part. The letter continues, “Instead of working in a bipartisan manner to make comprehensive, common-sense, and humane reforms to our immigration system, the President continues to turn to politically-motivated fear mongering and uses DOD resources and personnel as means to drive his troubling anti-immigration agenda.” The full text of the letter is as follows, and a full list of co-signers is below. The letter can be found at this link. Dear Secretary Mattis, We are writing today to express our opposition to the decision to use additional troops on the southern border to assist U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Congress was recently notified that the Administration is sending an additional 5,200 troops to the border without a long-term plan or an analysis of the effectiveness of previous deployments from this year. The United States can maintain a secure border and the rule of law while still upholding our country’s values to protect those fleeing persecution and violence. The use of military personnel, however, will not help us meet this challenge and only exacerbates the potential to unnecessarily escalate the situation. This effort is nothing short of a militarization of the southern border to score political points and stoke misleading fears among Americans regarding immigrants. In addition, this decision negatively impacts the readiness of our military personnel who could be training to increase their effectiveness in line with their assigned missions and expertise. This latest announcement follows a series of actions the President has taken this year to use the military to support his failed immigration policies. Earlier this year, National Guard troops were deployed to the southern border at a cost of $103 million, with no evidence to date of the necessity or effectiveness of their deployment. Furthermore, the Department of Defense (DOD) supported requests from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to shelter as many as 20,000 unaccompanied migrant children and 12,000 family members. Lastly, DOD internally approved $7.5 million for advanced planning for a 37-mile border barrier at the Barry M. Goldwater Range that could cost as much as $450 million. Instead of working in a bipartisan manner to make comprehensive, common-sense, and humane reforms to our immigration system, the President continues to turn to politically-motivated fear mongering and uses DOD resources and personnel as means to drive his troubling anti-immigration agenda. The President has exploited the caravan of people traveling to the U.S. to seek asylum for his own political gain, and he continues to politicize and militarize this humanitarian crisis as these men, women, and children are fleeing violence and persecution in an unstable part of the world. This is another example of the President using fear-mongering tactics over a humanitarian issue. This use of military personnel and resources for functions outside of core mission areas warrants additional Congressional oversight. Given this disparate approach, we request an update to answer the following questions: 1. What is the duration of the recent deployment to the southern border for the personnel deployed and to be deployed? 2. How many personnel will come from each component of the military i.e. active duty, National Guard and Reserve? 3. What rules of engagement will troops be under with regard to individuals in the caravan or any other individuals approaching or coming across the southern border? 4. Have any troops been instructed or trained on how to interact or engage in any way with individuals in the caravan? If so, what is the nature of the expected interaction and what training have these troops received for these interactions? 5. How much will this deployment cost the American taxpayer? With all of these pressing concerns in mind, we request a briefing and written response to answer the questions above, and we request an overview of the current strategy. We look forward to your response and thank you for your attention on this matter. Sincerely, Reps. Adam Smith, Bennie G. Thompson, Jerrold Nadler, Elijah E. Cummings, Mark Pocan, David Cicilline, James P. McGovern, Carolyn Maloney, Frank Pallone, Jr., Nydia M. Velázquez, Ruben Kihuen, Joe Courtney, Marcy Kaptur, Colleen Hanabusa, Brenda Lawrence, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Adriano Espaillat, Richard E. Neal, Robert Brady, Linda T. Sanchez, Wm. Lacy Clay, Yvette D. Clarke, Donald M. Payne, Jr., William R. Keating, Scott Peters, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Ruben Gallego, Rick Larsen, Jim Langevin, Madeleine Z. Bordallo, John Garamendi, Jan Schakowsky, Mike Thompson, Debbie Dingell, Suzanne Bonamici, Thomas R. Suozzi, Jim Cooper, Chellie Pingree, Suzan K. DelBene, Peter Welch, Salud Carbajal, Jimmy Panetta, Grace F. Napolitano, Diana DeGette, Seth Moulton, Eric Swalwell, Albio Sires, Steve Cohen, Hakeem Jeffries, Donald Norcross, Pramila Jayapal, Mark Takano, Alcee L. Hastings, Mike Doyle, Luis V. Gutiérrez, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Darren Soto, Jim Himes, Filemon Vela, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Paul Tonko, Earl Blumenauer, Donald S. Beyer Jr., Marc Veasey, Marcia L. Fudge, Alan Lowenthal, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Frederica S. Wilson, Pete Visclosky, Barbara Lee, David E. Price, Julia Brownley, G.K. Butterfield, Anthony G. Brown, Jose Serrano, Cedric Richmond, Mark DeSaulnier, Gwen Moore, Beto O’Rourke, Daniel T. Kildee, Jamie Raskin, Emanuel Cleaver, II, Dina Titus, John Yarmuth, Richard M. Nolan, Susan Davis, Bobby L. Rush, Ted Lieu, Charlie Crist, Judy Chu, Ro Khanna, John Lewis, Carol Shea-Porter, Raúl M. Grijalva, Denny Heck, Keith Ellison, Kathleen M. Rice, Donald McEachin, Norma Torres, Tulsi Gabbard, Karen Bass, Nita Lowey, John B. Larson, Brad Schneider, Danny K. Davis, and Vicente Gonzalez.
10.30.2018	Burien, WA – Today, Highline Public Schools and Port of Seattle officials recognized U.S. Representative Adam Smith for his successful effort to pass federal legislation preserving noise mitigation funding for schools impacted by noise from SeaTac airport. “We are grateful for Rep. Smith’s advocacy on behalf of our schools,” said Highline Superintendent Susan Enfield. “Our community is counting on this funding so we can provide our students with classrooms that are free from interruptions from aircraft noise.” Rep. Smith authored legislation to secure noise mitigation funds for Highline schools that were recently deemed ineligible for funding. The legislation makes Highline eligible for over $18 million in FAA and Port funds for Des Moines Elementary School and Highline High School. A new Des Moines Elementary is currently under construction. Construction of a new Highline High School will begin in 2019. The funding pays for noise-reducing doors and windows; sound insulated walls, ceilings and roofing; and ductwork designed to reduce noise transfer. A 2002 agreement between the Port of Seattle, the Federal Aviation Administration and Highline Public Schools committed federal funding for noise mitigation for fifteen schools. Noise mitigation is installed as schools are rebuilt. Since the agreement was signed, the noise contours around the airport changed, leaving remaining schools in areas where the FAA could not legally provide mitigation despite the prior agreement. Rep. Smith — ranking Member of the House Armed Service Committee and a Highline alumnus — crafted the legislation as an amendment to the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act, which was signed into law at the end of August. “The students in our community deserve to learn in a safe and healthy environment free from distracting noise and environmental burdens. I am proud to have secured over $14 million in federal funding to help Highline equip buildings with noise mitigation,” said Smith. “Continued coordination with Highline and the Port of Seattle on mitigating aviation impacts will ensure that the students attending our local schools will have the classrooms and facilities they need so that they can focus on their studies as they learn and develop.” The Port of Seattle has been a strong advocate for noise mitigation funding in Highline schools. “The Port is committed to economic opportunity and quality of life for all local residents, and there is no more important investment in our communities than modern, clean and quiet schools for our students,” said Elizabeth Leavitt, Port of Seattle Senior Director of Environment and Sustainability. “Rep. Smith’s leadership – with significant support from U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell – is a major victory. We look forward to working with Rep. Smith, the FAA and the school district to work through the grant application process to secure these dollars.”
10.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Armed Services Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement about National Security Advisor John Bolton’s announcement that President Trump is planning to host Vladimir Putin in Washington, DC, early next year: “What happened in Helsinki cannot be repeated. I am very concerned that a visit to Washington, DC, could produce another embarrassing spectacle in which President Trump attempts to reorient our policies toward Russia in ways that undermine U.S. national security and our commitment to democratic values worldwide. Dialogue with Russia is needed, but President Trump has continued to demonstrate his disturbing affinity towards President Putin, including his continued denial of Russia’s meddling in our 2016 elections and his failure to devote sufficient resources to secure our elections moving forward. The United States should not condone the activities of authoritarian regimes that aim to erode freedom of the press, silence their dissidents, and pose a threat to democratic values.”
10.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Armed Services Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement about President Trump’s announcement that he plans to send 800 additional U.S. troops to the border: “The President’s announcement that he will send more troops to the border is fundamentally wrong and a political act at a time when leadership is needed. We should not be militarizing the border, and President Trump has offered no clear idea of what our forces are going to do there. We have seen no evidence that it was helpful or effective when he sent the National Guard to the border in April. “The caravan of people that the President is focused on are coming to seek asylum, and they have a lawful right to do so. There is absolutely no reason to further politicize and militarize this humanitarian crisis. “These men, women, and children are fleeing poverty and violence in a very unstable part of the world. The United States should be leading efforts to bring the countries of the region together to figure out what can be done to reduce the horrific conditions that are causing people to flee. I don’t have any illusions that this is going to be easy, and it doesn’t fall solely on the United States to resolve these issues, but our role as a global leader should be focused on bringing countries in the region together to make progress on these humanitarian challenges, instead of isolating ourselves in a show of military force.”
10.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Armed Services Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) and House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY) sent a letter to President Trump warning against an exit from the INF and New START treaties, and demanding a briefing from Secretaries Mattis and Pompeo about any plans to do so. The text of the letter can be found here. Rep. Smith released the following statement about the subject: “Withdrawing from the INF treaty and letting the New START Treaty expire would be grave mistakes. Those actions would needlessly and dangerously remove constraints on Russia’s testing and deployment of illegal cruise missiles; give Russia free rein to deploy an unlimited number of nuclear weapons; and plunge us headlong into a twenty-first century nuclear arms race. Doing so would be short-sighted and detrimental to national security. “It would divide our allies and play directly into President Putin’s hands. As our allies and partners have discussed, one of President Putin’s goals in undermining the INF Treaty is to goad us into such an action. That would benefit Russia and weaken deterrence by sowing discord among our allies and partners, and undermining European and U.S. security. “Our strength is in our alliances, not in adding yet one more exotic new weapon or nuclear delivery platform, which is why we should implement the measures I’ve pursued in the House NDAA to push Russia back into compliance via sanctions and other methods. We should not take the bait and fall into Putin’s trap, and we should recognize that nuclear stability has been an essential component of our national security. Exiting from INF and New START would divide us from our allies, derail that stability, and lead us into an uncontrolled nuclear competition. This outcome would be dangerous and weaken our security and our leadership. Instead we should pursue effective diplomatic efforts, make smart investments in a strong deterrent and pursue budgetary priorities that will most effectively keep our country secure, free, and prosperous.” Rep. Engel made the following statement: “Unilaterally withdrawing from the decades-old INF Treaty puts us on a dangerous course, especially absent a strategy with our allies in Europe and Asia to deal effectively with Russia’s Treaty violations and avoid another nuclear arms race. It’s also outrageous that the Administration would plow ahead on a decision so critical to our security without consulting Congress. Ranking Member Smith and I will continue to push for an explanation for this action and for why the legislative branch was ignored in the process.” The text of the letter is as follows: October 24, 2018 Dear Secretary Mattis and Secretary Pompeo, We write to express our grave concern that the Trump Administration is notifying Russia that the United States intends to unilaterally withdraw from the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, without any notice to or consultation with Congress, even as our committees had requested a briefing on these issues. If this action is taken, it would risk an arms race, would jeopardize the security of our allies in Europe and Asia, and would significantly undermine U.S. leadership on arms control. The precipitous step of President Trump’s intent to notify Russia of the US withdrawal from the INF Treaty, which was announced over the weekend, discards the results of the Administration’s own extensive review to determine an appropriate response to Russia’s violation of the Treaty. Ten months ago, the Administration announced an integrated response that included diplomatic, military, and economic measures. At the time, we supported this approach and expected to receive details about how the strategy would be executed. Regrettably, we have not received any information on this effort and are unaware of any significant steps the administration has taken to press Russia to return to compliance with the INF Treaty. Instead, the Administration is opting for a dangerous approach that threatens a nuclear arms race and abandons effective diplomacy to preserve a vital arms control agreement. As you know, the INF Treaty, alongside New START Treaty, forms the basis for our strategic relationship with Russia. These treaties have been crucial tools to help preserve U.S. and European security and reduce the risk of nuclear war with Russia by ensuring mutual transparency and stability of both the U.S. and Russian nuclear stockpiles. They have also provided the framework enabling insight into Russia’s forces and on-site inspections to verify compliance. We will neither support, nor enable, a precipitous course of action that increases the risk of an unconstrained nuclear arms race. Withdrawing unilaterally from the INF Treaty would play directly into Putin’s hands. It would benefit Russia, not the United States or its allies. Russia would be free to expand deployment of its Treaty-violating missile systems without any legal constraint or fear of international condemnation under the Treaty. And Russia will muddy the waters by shifting the blame to the United States for what was until now a clear Russian violation. In addition, we have seen no validated military requirement for withdrawing from the INF Treaty and deploying INF-range missiles. There has been no Department of Defense decision on testing or deploying ground-launched INF-range missiles that would require or justify withdrawing from the INF Treaty. Withdrawal also risks needlessly dividing the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and further undermining U.S. leadership and reliability as a stable and predictable partner on matters involving European security. Sowing division within NATO will undermine both U.S. and European security. There has been no effort to take into account the views of our allies and consult with them on this dangerous action. Instead, three other governments were simply confronted with this decision. The two most recent NATO Defense Ministerial communiques have stressed the need to bring Russia back into compliance. In its July 2018 Brussels Summit Declaration, NATO countries stated: “The Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty has been crucial to Euro-Atlantic security and we remain fully committed to the preservation of this landmark arms control treaty.” The precipitous and rash decision to withdraw from the Treaty directly contradicts the agreed-upon objective to hold Russia accountable for its violation while attempting to preserve the Treaty. Furthermore, the administration failed to take any effective actions to try to bring Russia back into compliance, including using the dispute resolution mechanism in the INF Treaty, or other diplomatic and economic measures. In an attempt to press the Trump administration to take some meaningful action against Russia that would have held it accountable for violating the INF treaty and might have pressed it back into compliance, the House version of the National Defense Authorization bill for Fiscal Year 2019 required the President to impose sanctions on Russia. Unfortunately, these requirements were dropped from the final bill due mainly to strong opposition from the White House. Given the dire consequences of a nuclear arms race for our national security and that of our European allies, we oppose any unilateral withdrawal from the INF Treaty, and urge a more deliberate and coordinated approach to hold Russia accountable without undermining U.S. security. We expect a full explanation of why Congress was not even informed of such a decision, and an explanation of why the administration has chosen to take such precipitous, ill-advised – and potentially reckless -- action, rather than working with our allies to increase pressure on Russia to return to compliance under the Treaty. In addition, we request that prior to taking any action pertaining to the INF Treaty and the New START Treaty, you provide us answers on the following matters: An assessment of the implications, in terms of the military threat to the United States and its allies in Europe, of Russian deployment of intermediate-range cruise and ballistic missiles without restriction. Would the United States need to pursue additional technologies or programs to offset the additional Russian capabilities? If so, what types of technologies or programs and at what cost? An assessment of the implications, in terms of the military threat to the United States, of Russian deployment of strategic nuclear weapons without restriction and without U.S. right to conduct inspections in the event of New START Treaty expires without an extension. The status of the Administration’s December 2017 announcement of an integrated approach to push Russia back into INF Treaty compliance. Measures short of withdrawal, including economic, military and diplomatic options that would increase pressure on Russia for violating the INF Treaty. The status of all consultations with allies pertaining to the INF Treaty – and U.S. commitment to closely consult with allies on a plan to develop a joint path forward to maintain international security and stability. The Administration’s assessment of the impact that INF Treaty withdrawal and New START expiration could have on the long-term U.S.-Russia strategic stability. Given the precipitous and unexpected announcement in the past few days of a planned U.S. withdrawal from the INF Treaty, we request that you personally brief our members when we return to Washington, DC the week of November 13. In the meantime, we request a written response to our questions no later than November 2. Sincerely, Adam Smith, Ranking Member, House Armed Services Committee Eliot Engel, Ranking Member, House Foreign Affairs Committee Gregory Meeks, Ranking Member, House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Europe and Eurasia
10.20.2018	“After 17 days, the Saudis have finally come forward admitting Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi was killed. Their claim that ‘quarrels and an altercation’ resulted in his death is a pitiful cover up. If this was just a fist fight gone wrong, why did the Saudis say the next day that Khashoggi had left the consulate? If this was just the result of an altercation, where is the body? And, most importantly, why after 17 days do so many questions about his murder remain unanswered? "Instead of standing up to this blatant fabrication and assault on the freedom of press, President Trump has once again buckled when United States leadership in the world is needed. His acceptance of the Saudi’s statement as the truth is nothing less than full throated support for brutal authoritarian dictatorship as the best form of government. Trump’s failure to stand up to this atrocity denigrates the words of our Constitution, the freedoms we stand for as a country, and the values of democracy. It sends a message to people around the world that this administration will not defend freedom or the free press, but will blindly follow the lead of authoritarian regimes.” "We have a moral obligation to make clear to the entire world that, while President Trump may buckle in the face of such a horrific act, Congress and the American people will not sit silently.”
10.15.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in response to reports that the Trump Administration is considering using West Coast military installations and federal properties to export coal and natural gas: “I am extremely concerned with reports that the Trump administration may be considering the use of military bases to ship coal and gas. This is a clear attempt to circumvent environmental oversight and protections. The Trump Administration is once again using national security as an excuse to drive their short-sighted agenda. The reality that this administration refuses to act on, however, is that climate change is one of the gravest national security threats facing this country. In 2017, I led my colleagues passing into law legislation that acknowledges climate change is a national security threat. “Exporting coal and gas through Department of Defense military bases or lands will do nothing to help address the impacts of climate change or benefit the energy resiliency of Department of Defense installations. In fact, turning our military bases into export terminals could be an encroachment risk and potentially harm military training, operations, and readiness. We need Congress and this administration to treat climate change for what it is – a threat to our national security and to the wellbeing of this country. As Ranking Member of the Armed Services Committee, I will work with my colleagues to hold this administration accountable for these actions and the risks they pose for our environment and national security.”
10.12.2018	Washington, D.C.- Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY), and House Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following joint statement in response to the disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi: “As attacks on the press have proliferated in Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and other countries around the world, the disappearance and possible death of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi is deeply alarming. If the reports detailing the involvement of the Saudi government are true, the United States should not be afraid to take bold action to demonstrate to the world that we will not stand by in the face of such an appalling violation of international human rights. “We fully support the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s letter to the administration invoking the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act to trigger an investigation and determination of sanctions. If Saudi Arabia is found to have been involved in the disappearance of Mr. Khashoggi, inaction is simply not an option. The United States should leverage our support and strong relationship with Saudi Arabia to advocate for respect for human rights and push back against these types of actions, which isolate Saudi Arabia. As Congressional leaders, we must show that the United States will stand up against injustices and human rights violations in any country, including our partners. We wish the administration would do the same.”
10.9.2018	Washington, D.C. – On October 5,2018, Congressman Adam Smith introduced the Empowering Individuals to Succeed Through Education and Workforce Training Act. This legislation would establish a new grant program under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA), dedicated exclusively to providing support services for individuals receiving workforce training and education. For too many individuals, the barriers to receiving an education or obtaining the skills needed to succeed in this economy are insurmountable. The financial burden often goes beyond just the costs of tuition. Costs related to child care, transportation, or housing can have as much of a burden on individuals looking to gain the skills and education they need to succeed. Career and technical education and workforce training services serve as an onramp for individuals to enter the workforce and are critical to addressing our nation’s skills gap. Reducing the barriers that individuals face to obtain training and education will help ready our workforce for in-demand, good paying jobs. “With persistent inequities in our society and an evolving economy, we must do more to help people obtain the education and skills they need to succeed. The Empowering Individuals to Succeed Through Education and Workforce Training Act will provide wraparound services, such as assistance with child care or transportation, that are needed to help individuals complete education and training programs for in-demand jobs in our economy,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Whether it’s a recently unemployed worker obtaining retraining services, an immigrant receiving English language classes, or a single parent looking to attend a technical school, we need to reduce the barriers that make career and technical education and training incredibly difficult or nearly impossible for so many people to achieve. Equal opportunity for all is only possible when every person in our country can access programs leading to high-quality and good-paying jobs.” “This legislation is very important. Students are up to the educational challenges, but ‘life’ issues of childcare, transportation, housing, and other factors are often significant barriers to ultimate success,” said Kevin McCarthy, President, Renton Technical College. “These WIOA support services will be a great benefit to students in workforce training programs and ultimately the businesses, industries, and communities these students will serve.” “With more than 80 percent of all jobs in today’s economy requiring some form of education or training beyond high school, increasing access to high quality workforce development is critical for both workers and businesses. But meaningful access to job training means more than tuition and fees - we also need to invest in support services like child care and transportation to help workers complete training and succeed on the job, said Kermit Kaleba, Federal Policy Director, National Skills Coalition. “The Empowering Individuals to Succeed Through Education and Workforce Training Act provides critical resources to local communities that will enable more people to take advantage of emerging job opportunities. We applaud Rep. Smith for his leadership on this important issue.” “Not everyone can afford all the costs associated with training or has a network to help with family needs while they're in school. That shouldn’t disqualify them from pursuing education and workforce training. We know these barriers stop people from pursuing aerospace careers,’ said Chelsea Orvella, SPEEA Legislative Director. “Congressman Smith’s efforts will help eliminate barriers and open doors for all workers to build their skills and grow their careers.” Through the Empowering Individuals to Succeed Through Education and Workforce Training Act, local and State workforce development boards would use grants to build partnerships and the capacity to help individuals receive support services. Individuals participating in a wide range of WIOA training and education programs would be eligible to receive support under the grant, such as skills upgrading and retraining, apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship programs, adult education and literacy activities, and occupational skills training. Support services provided under this grant could include assistance with transportation, child care or dependent care, and housing; referrals to health care services; legal aid services; and other services important for an individual to successfully complete their training or education.
10.9.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith, House Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Effective Foreign Assistance, joined with leaders in the international development community to applaud the Better Utilization of Investments Leading to Development Act, known as the BUILD Act of 2018, becoming law: “The BUILD Act will significantly improve our capacity to reduce poverty and inequality around the world. It’s vital that the U.S. be at the forefront of helping communities around the world to address their development and humanitarian challenges. Supporting economic growth in less developed countries promotes health, peace, and stability that is critical to our national security,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “This new development finance institution strengthens the ability of the United States to promote sustainable, broad-based development projects in countries around the world. This institution will play a key role, along with robust direct assistance, in our commitment to providing help to those most in need around the world. I’m proud to have worked with my colleagues in the House and Senate, including Congressman Ted Yoho, Senator Chris Coons, and Senator Bob Corker, to show that we can work together to make progress on critical issues facing our country and the world.” “The BUILD Act will help continue US leadership in the fight against poverty and opening up new economic markets, which has been good for US business, trade opportunities, while helping create a safer more prosperous world for us all,” said Aria Grabowski, Senior Policy Advisor on Aid and Development Finance at Oxfam America. “We thank Representatives Ted Yoho and Adam Smith, and Senators Bob Corker and Chris Coons for their leadership in bringing the BUILD Act about, and all of the Representatives and Senators who worked to create a Development Finance Institution that takes US development cooperation into the 21st century, while still protecting the vulnerable and ensuring that they are not left behind.” “Throughout the process, we called for a strong development mandate, transparency, and social and environmental safeguards in this bill,” said George Ingram, Modernizing Foreign Assistance Network Co-Chair and Senior Fellow at The Brookings Institution. “The BUILD Act expands U.S. development financing tools while carrying over important accountability and development standards.” “Passing the BUILD Act is an important step in maximizing the effectiveness of U.S. development finance,” said Tessie San Martin, Modernizing Foreign Assistance Network Co-Chair and President & CEO of Plan International USA. “Moving forward, the new IDFC will need to work hand-in-hand with USAID and Congress to help partner countries successfully address poverty, sustainability and inequality.” “The BUILD Act will help bring tens of billions of private-sector dollars into the fight against extreme poverty by helping American entrepreneurs and investors do business in Africa, create jobs and expand their reach in developing countries,” said Tom Hart, North America executive director at The ONE Campaign. “The ONE Campaign is grateful for the stewardship of Representative Smith who sponsored this bill. Congressman Smith’s smart, creative approach to helping people lift themselves out of extreme poverty and his determination to get this legislation passed this year is deeply appreciated.” ###
10.2.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, September 28, 2018, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA), Congressman David Price (D-NC), and Congressman Peter Welch (D-VT) were joined by 109 House Democrats in a letter to Secretary Pompeo urging the Trump administration to reverse its decision to end vital U.S. contributions to the United Nations Relief Works Agency (UNRWA) and to reprogram bilateral foreign aid away from the West Bank, Gaza, and East Jerusalem. Recently, the Trump State Department announced it would reprogram more than $230 million in bilateral assistance, which provides emergency food security, health care, education, and clean water, among other vital life-saving programs, for Palestinians in the West Bank, Gaza, and East Jerusalem. Additionally, on August 31, 2018, the Trump administration announced it would end longstanding contributions to the United Nations Relief Works Agency (UNRWA), a UN relief and development agency that provides essential services to more than 5 million Palestinian refugees in Gaza and throughout the region. “These steps not only threaten the stability of the region; they also undercut the U.S.’s ability to facilitate negotiations that will result in a viable two-state solution to the conflict,” the members wrote. “While Hamas continues to act in complete disregard for the safety and freedom of the people of Gaza, the administration’s steps will aggravate tensions in the region and further erode prospects for a lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians.” The members highlight that bilateral foreign assistance to the West Bank, Gaza, and East Jerusalem, as well as contributions to UNRWA, were appropriated by Congress on a bipartisan basis, and “unilaterally refusing to disburse this funding disregards Congress’ constitutionally given power of the purse and the will of the American people, whom Congress was elected to represent.” The letter continues, “As we reflect on the 25 years since the Oslo Accords, we believe it is imperative that both sides of this conflict resume negotiations. However, the administration’s decisions, whether or not intended to pressure Palestinian leadership back to the negotiating table, are counterproductive to facilitating negotiations or pursuing peace, stability, and security.” The full text of the letter can be found online here and below: *** September 28, 2018 The Honorable Mike Pompeo Secretary U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Pompeo: As strong supporters of the United States’ commitment to the dignity and security of Israelis and Palestinians, we write to urge the administration to reverse its decisions to end vital United States contributions to the United Nations Relief Works Agency (UNRWA) and to reprogram bilateral foreign aid away from the West Bank and Gaza. While Hamas continues to act in complete disregard for the safety and freedom of the people of Gaza, the administration’s steps will aggravate tensions in the region and further erode prospects for a lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians. These steps not only threaten the stability of the region; they also undercut the U.S.’s ability to facilitate negotiations that will result in a viable two-state solution to the conflict. As we reflect on the 25 years since the Oslo Accords, we believe it is imperative that both sides of this conflict resume negotiations. However, the administration’s decisions, whether or not intended to pressure Palestinian leadership back to the negotiating table, are counterproductive to facilitating negotiations or pursuing peace, stability, and security. As you know, bilateral foreign assistance to the West Bank and Gaza and UNRWA contributions were appropriated by Congress on a bipartisan basis following extensive deliberation and debate. Unilaterally refusing to disburse this funding disregards Congress’ constitutionally given power of the purse and the will of the American people, whom Congress was elected to represent. We, therefore, urge the administration to reverse its Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 funding decision and to obligate the FY 2018 aid as intended by Congress. Bilateral assistance to the West Bank and Gaza improves Palestinians’ quality of life and bolsters security in the region, which supports U.S. interests in a negotiated peace agreement. An August 2018 Government Accountability Office (GAO) study found that the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), which is responsible for administrating this assistance, was conducting the necessary vetting to ensure this funding was being spent for its intended purposes. But the administration’s decision to reprogram $230.1 million in assistance will cut funding for emergency food security to vulnerable families, including the elderly, the disabled, orphans, and women-headed households; education services; emergency healthcare preparedness; positive youth engagement; and urgent water and sanitation needs, among other vital programs, which undercuts U.S. interests in the region. Further, thousands of jobs will be lost as U.S. implementing partners on the ground will be forced to lay off employees, making a bad situation worse. Included in the termination of FY 2017 bilateral aid was $25 million for the East Jerusalem Hospital Network, which has consistently enjoyed bipartisan support. The East Jerusalem Hospital Network provides critical specialized care and is the backbone of tertiary referral care for Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza. This network of hospitals, including the Lutheran World Federation owned and operated Augusta Victoria Hospital, provides life-saving services such as cancer treatment, pediatric hemodialysis, and bone marrow transplants, as well as vocational training for thousands of students. Without FY 2017 assistance, these hospitals will have to curtail or cut services, leading to the interruption of current treatments, a reduction in future treatments, and a severe disruption to the health care system in the region. Further, the administration most recently announced that it would exclude projects involving Palestinians from receiving any of the funds from the $10 million USAID Conflict Management and Mitigation (CMM) grants program. CMM programs support people-to-people organizations that serve thousands of Israelis and Palestinians by building resilience against violence and strengthening the human capital for the next generation of leaders, laying the groundwork for a viable peace agreement. Eliminating these funds only serves to undercut the very forces for peace that we should be supporting. Additionally, we are disturbed by the administration’s decision to indefinitely withhold contributions to UNRWA, which will lead to disastrous consequences for Palestinians, Israelis, and others in the region. The administration’s decision will exacerbate the already dire humanitarian crisis in Gaza, where one million people – half the population – depend on UNRWA for food assistance. We have heard from the humanitarian community that there is no entity with the capacity to replace UNRWA in Gaza, the West Bank, Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria, where it operates more than 700 schools for 500,000 children and 142 health clinics that served nine million patients in 2017. According to reports in the Israeli media, top Israeli military and intelligence officials have repeatedly warned that weakening UNRWA risks strengthening Hamas and endangering Israel’s security. The administration's decisions also threaten to destabilize countries hosting refugee camps served by UNRWA, including our ally Jordan. We urge you to reverse your decision and obligate appropriated FY 2017 funds intended for UNRWA and bilateral assistance to support Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza. Furthermore, it is imperative that the FY 2018 funds, for the same purposes, are obligated prior to September 30, 2019. We look forward to your prompt reply. Sincerely, _____________________ _____________________ _____________________ DAVID E. PRICE PETER WELCH ADAM SMITH Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress CC: Jared Kushner, Senior Advisor to the President Jason Greenblatt, Assistant to the President Mark Green, USAID Administrator Nikki Haley, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Karen Sasahara, U.S. Consul General David Friedman, U.S. Ambassador to Israel
9.28.2018	“Today the Republicans doubled down on their tax scam, giving corporations and the wealthy a second massive tax break in less than nine months, sticking hard-working American families with the bill. The package of bills forced through the House by Republicans this week will make hundreds of billions of dollars in temporary tax cuts passed last December permanent, ballooning our deficit and moving us further away from an economy that works for everyone. “What’s worse is that Republicans have made it clear that they plan to pay for this scam with devastating cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. In June 2018, Republicans released the first federal budget since passing the initial tax bill late last year. Citing the growing debt and deficit, which have been dramatically exacerbated by passage of their tax bill, the Republicans’ budget proposed drastic cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. In passing another round of tax cuts for the wealthy, this week’s tax package will not only further harm our nation’s finances, it will damage programs that middle-class Americans rely on, and further increase already historic levels of inequality. “Congress and the American people need to have an honest debate about our budget and national finances when debating tax policies. Improvements to federal tax policy should also promote innovation, help working families, and increase economic vitality, while bringing in enough revenue to draw down the deficit. At a time when the richest one percent of Americans own 40 percent of all the wealth in the country and we are over $20 trillion in debt, it was terrible economic and fiscal policy for Republicans in Congress and President Trump to enact a $2 trillion tax cut that gave most of its benefits to the richest people and the largest corporations. To expand that abhorrent fiscal policy now, by permanently authorizing tax cuts, will shift even more wealth to the richest Americans, rigging our economy further in favor of rich CEOs and their stockholders, at the expense of working families.”
9.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Smith introduced the Social Security Equity Act, legislation to provide relief to some of those workers and retirees who see their Social Security benefits reduced because of the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP). The Social Security Equity Act helps to keep many workers and retirees from experiencing benefit cuts due to the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP). The WEP reduces payments to many retirees who split their careers between jobs that were covered by Social Security and in positions where they earned even minimal public pension benefits. “Hard-working Americans should not experience a significant hit to their Social Security benefits because they happened to work for an employer that provided a pension, in addition to facing low wages, inconsistent work opportunities, or the need to take time away from work. By simply changing the WEP formula, Congress can make this aspect of Social Security less regressive and allow more retirees to collect full Social Security payments,” said Congressman Adam Smith. First implemented in 1983 as part of broader efforts to bolster the Social Security program’s finances, the WEP was intended to reduce excess benefits, or “windfalls,” accruing to workers who spent much of their career earning a pension instead of paying into the Social Security program—in jobs most often found in the public sector—but who also received benefits from relatively short tenures in Social Security-covered employment. Unfortunately, the WEP disproportionally hurts those who earned lower wages and experienced less consistent employment outside of jobs where pensions were available. Receiving even a small pension from relatively brief employment not covered by Social Security places those who did not work full-time, earned lower wages at Social Security-covered jobs, took time away from work to care for loved ones, or those forced to go on disability, at risk of being hit by the WEP. For example, a public school teacher who earned a modest pension from a teaching position that was not covered by Social Security, then took a number of years away from work to care for a family member, and returned to work in part-time and relatively low paying positions for the remainder of their career, could see their Social Security benefits reduced under the WEP. To avoid these cuts, retirees must have worked long enough and made enough each year in Social Security-covered employment to qualify for an exemption. In many years, full time work for the full calendar year at the federal minimum wage would still not be enough to help that worker avoid the WEP when he or she retires. The Social Security Equity Act reduces, from 30 to 25, the number of years in Social Security-covered employment required to become exempt from the WEP. The bill also decreases the annual earnings threshold for each of those years to count toward a WEP exemption—also known as the substantial earnings floor. By lowering barriers to achieving a WEP exemption, this legislation provides WEP relief to more retirees of blended career histories and will allow retirees to receive more of their Social Security benefits.
9.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today, House Armed Services Ranking Member Adam Smith joined more than a dozen of his colleagues in the House of Representatives in introducing a bipartisan privileged resolution to withdraw U.S. Armed Forces from engaging in the Saudi-led coalition’s conflict with the Houthis in Yemen. Ranking Member Smith is also a co-sponsor of H. CON. RES. 81, introduced by Rep. Khanna in 2017. “Yemen is facing the worst humanitarian crisis in the world right now that has been significantly exacerbated by the civil war. The impact of the Saudi-coalition’s actions on the dire humanitarian crisis is undeniable,” said Rep. Adam Smith. “The U.S. should be aggressively pushing a peaceful solution to end this civil war instead of supporting the Saudi-led coalition military campaign that has only destabilized the crisis further. We must make it clear that U.S. should not be choosing sides in this civil war while the people of Yemen continue to suffer.” “When I introduced a similar War Powers resolution last year, I, along with Reps. Pocan, Massie, and Jones, were among a small group of members of Congress calling for an end to the U.S. involvement in the Saudi War in Yemen. One year later, the bloodshed continues with widespread destruction and disease contributing to the world’s worst humanitarian crisis. U.S.-fueled planes continue to drop U.S.-made bombs on innocent victims,” said Rep. Khanna. “This time around, our coalition to end the war has expanded and the call for withdrawing U.S. involvement is louder. This policy started by a few original cosponsors of our War Powers resolution is now supported by Whip Hoyer, the ranking members of the House Armed Services, Foreign Affairs, and Rules Committees, and it is now a mainstream position within the Democratic Party. In fact, 44 U.S. Senators, including the Democratic Leader and Whip, voted in favor of a similar War Powers resolution. I am confident the House Republican leadership will allow this resolution to come to a vote and that members of the House will hear from their constituents in support of our position against this unauthorized war contributing to Yemen’s humanitarian catastrophe.” “The world’s worst humanitarian crisis has been triggered by our secretive, illegal war in Yemen waged alongside the Saudi regime. I am proud to join my progressive and conservative colleagues in co-leading this vital effort to force the House of Representatives to finally debate and vote on removing U.S. forces from this senseless conflict,” said Rep. Pocan. “As the Saudis use famine as a weapon of war, starving millions of innocent Yemenis to near death, the United States fuels, coordinates and provides bombs for Saudi airstrikes, and secretly deploys the military to participate in on-the-ground operations with Saudi troops. Nothing is more urgent than working across the aisle to rein in our unauthorized involvement in this tragedy by reasserting our constitutional duty over war and peace.” “The actions of the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen are fast-approaching the level of crimes against humanity,” said Rep. McGovern. “The United States must send a clear and unambiguous message to Saudi Arabia – their actions are unacceptable to the international community and will not be tolerated by the United States. As millions of Yemenis face senseless violence, starvation, and disease, America cannot remain a complicit and passive partner in carrying out one of the world’s greatest humanitarian crises.” “Congress never authorized military action in Yemen as our Constitution requires, yet we continue to fund and assist Saudi Arabia in this tragic conflict,” said Rep. Massie. “It’s long past time Congress held a debate and vote as to whether U.S. soldiers and personnel should be involved in this war.” “The United States is complicit in the humanitarian catastrophe in Yemen. The Saudi-Emirati coalition has unleashed unthinkable horrors on the civilians of Yemen, and it is shameful that the U.S. is participating in this war,” said Rep. Barbara Lee. “This war was never voted on by Congress. In the face of unspeakable carnage and suffering, the United States should be building a pathway to peace – not supporting a coalition that bombs civilians. Congress needs to make its voice heard and demand an end to U.S. participation in this inhumane war.” “Congress has a constitutional responsibility to authorize and provide oversight of military conflicts. We have done neither for the conflict in Yemen – where our military has supported airstrikes that have killed scores of innocent civilians, including children,” said Rep. Lieu. “Enforcing the role of Congress in overseeing U.S. involvement in conflicts abroad guarantees that this issue will finally receive the critical debate it deserves.” “For too long, the United States has turned a blind eye to the horrifying atrocities committed against Yemeni civilians by the Saudi-U.S. coalition, killing, maiming and starving innocent civilians since the start of this genocidal war in 2015,” said Rep. Gabbard. “Even after Saudi Arabia dropped a bomb on a school bus that killed 40 children last month, the Trump Administration reaffirmed its support for this illegal war, which Congress has never approved. The U.S. must end its support for Saudi Arabia now.” "For far too long, the United States has fueled the suffering in Yemen. Our military's continued support for the Saudi and UAE led coalition, even in the face of repeated war crimes, must immediately end. We are grateful that a bipartisan group of members of Congress, led by Rep. Ro Khanna, HASC Ranking Member Adam Smith, and CPC Co-Chair Mark Pocan, are leading the charge to put an end to our unauthorized role in this deadly war,” said Stephen Miles, Director at Win Without War. “We call on all members of Congress to join them and help finally end the world's largest man-made humanitarian crisis." "Just Foreign Policy strongly welcomes the bipartisan initiative of Reps. Khanna, Smith, Pocan, Massie and others to invoke the War Powers Resolution to force a floor vote to end unconstitutional U.S. participation in the Saudi regime's biblically-catastrophic war and blockade in Yemen,” said Robert Naiman, Policy Director at Just Foreign Policy. “The Saudi regime is deliberately causing famine in Yemen and deliberately helping strengthen Al Qaeda in Yemen. These barbaric Saudi policies that are hurting Americans will stop when the United States government stops illegally enabling them. We expect the long-overdue House invocation of its war powers to end this abomination to be a decisive step towards asserting Constitutional war powers to end other unconstitutional wars and towards preventing unconstitutional wars in the future." “This House resolution offers a glimmer of hope to the suffering people of Yemen because if the US withdraws its support for the Saudi-led bombing, a negotiated settlement is sure to follow,” said Medea Benjamin, co-director at CODEPINK. “Let's make sure the August bombing of a busload of children marks a turning point in US policy.” "As a result of American support for the Saudi-led war in Yemen, millions are facing starvation and the country is battling what may be the worst cholera epidemic in history,” said Kaili Lambe, Organizing Director at CREDO Action. “American-made bombs have killed civilians – many of them children, all without explicit authorization from Congress. It is crucial that Congress assert its responsibility and vote to end U.S. support for the war in Yemen by supporting the legislation sponsored by Reps. Khanna, Pocan and Smith.” "This resolution should be a no-brainer for Congress. What more do they need to finally end this tragedy? If they're not persuaded by the fact that the U.S. is engaging in unauthorized warfare, the growing civilian body count should demand their attention,” said Elizabeth Beavers, Associate Policy Director at for Indivisible. “This is the world's largest humanitarian crisis, and blood is on the hands of those who do not act to stop it." “As Quakers, we support legislation to end U.S. involvement in the Saudi-led war that is slaughtering men, women, and children in Yemen. By refueling Saudi and Emirati jets as they bomb civilians, the U.S. is enabling the world’s largest humanitarian crisis. We applaud Representatives Ro Khanna, Adam Smith, and Mark Pocan for their bipartisan initiative to reassert Congress’ constitutional authority to end this illegal war,” said Diane Randall, Executive Secretary, Friends Committee on National Legislation (FCNL), a Quaker lobby in the public interest. “Quakers and friends across the country are mobilizing to urge their members of Congress to support this initiative and end this illegal war.” "The war in Yemen being waged by the Saudi and Emirati-led coalition is brutal, bloody, and a humanitarian disaster of immense proportions--and the coalition is losing. America is supporting that coalition with military assets such as refueling tankers and precision-guided munitions. Our support is unconstitutional because Congress hasn't approved it,” said Lawrence Wilkerson, Prof of Govt at the College of William and Mary and former chief of staff to secretary of state Colin Powell. “The solution is simple: invoke the Constitution and the War Powers Act and give the President a choice--stop the support or seek Congressional approval." “Rarely does Congress have an opportunity make a difference in the lives of millions of people. This legislation is one such chance, and the time to act is now,” said William D. Hartung, Director, Arms and Security Project, Center for International Policy. “Representatives Khanna, Pocan, Smith and their colleagues are to be commended for taking urgent and necessary action to end the suffering in Yemen.” “In another effort by Congress to take back its constitutional mandate to declare war, Peace Action applauds Reps. Adam Smith (D-WA, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Jim McGovern (D-MA, Ranking Member of the Rules Committee), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Thomas Massie (R-KY) and others for invoking the War Powers Resolution to stop the illegal involvement of the U.S. in the Yemen war,” said Paul Kawika Martin the Senior Director, Policy and Political Affairs for Peace Action, the largest grassroots peace organization in the U.S., “Peace Action helped pass the War Powers Resolution in 1973 over the veto of President Nixon so Congress can stop the White House and the Pentagon from engaging in costly wars that make Americans less safe.” “The Committee for Responsible Foreign Policy commends Reps. Ro Khanna, Adam Smith, and Mark Pocan for their leadership on this issue, and for their commitment to the Constitution's Article I Congressional War Powers,” said George O'Neill, Jr., founder of the Committee for Responsible Foreign Policy. “The decision to go to war is one of the most important decisions a nation can make, and it is appropriate for Congress to vote on the United States' partnership with Saudi Arabia in the war in Yemen, which has created the worst humanitarian crisis in the world.” The cosponsors of the resolution are: Reps Adam Smith (WA-09), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Steny Hoyer (MD-05), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02), Thomas Massie (KY-04), Michael Capuano (MA-07), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Joe Kennedy (Ma-04), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Walter Jones (NC-03), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Earl Blumenauer (OR-03). The text of the legislation can be found here. ###
9.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA), Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Congressman John Garamendi (D-CA), Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) introduced the bicameral Hold the LYNE—or Low-Yield Nuclear Explosive—Act. The legislation would prohibit the research, develop, production, and deployment of a low-yield nuclear warheads for submarine-launched ballistic missiles. So-called low-yield nuclear weapons have the potential to lower the threshold for using nuclear weapons and increase the risk of entering the U.S. into nuclear war. Upon introduction, Ranking Member Smith said: “We should not fund President Trump’s request for new low-yield nuclear weapons. His proposal dangerously lowers the threshold to nuclear use and siphons money away from genuine military readiness needs. We already have a nuclear deterrent that is more than adequate to achieve our national security goals. Funding new, low-yield weapons would only draw us further into an unnecessary nuclear arms race and increase the risks of miscalculation.” Upon introduction, Rep. Lieu said: “There’s no such thing as a low-yield nuclear war. Use of any nuclear weapon, regardless of its killing power, could be catastrophically destabilizing. It opens the door for severe miscalculation and could drag the U.S. and our allies into a devastating nuclear conflict. That’s why Reps. Smith, Garamendi and Blumenauer, and Sen. Markey in the Senate, introduced the Hold the LYNE Act, to ensure we won’t lower our standards for launching a nuclear weapon.” Upon introduction, Rep. Garamendi said: “I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this critical piece of legislation. My previous efforts to prohibit the authorization and funding to develop a low-yield nuclear warhead for the Trident D5 submarine-launched ballistic missile were narrowly defeated. These unnecessary warheads will increase the risk of nuclear war and further fuel a dangerous arms race. Furthermore, we’re already on track to spend over $1.2 trillion over the next thirty years to modernize and maintain our current nuclear arsenal, and that figure does not take into account these new weapons. Both I and my colleagues remain concerned about the direction our nuclear forces are headed, which is why we have joined efforts in introducing this important bill.” Upon introduction, Rep. Blumenauer said: “Despite their misleading name, so-called ‘low-yield’ nuclear weapons are highly destabilizing and increase the likelihood of nuclear war. We should abandon our focus on outdated Cold War tactics and focus on the strategic challenges we face today, including accounting for the irresponsible spending on weapons we can’t afford to build and the world can’t afford for us to use.” Upon introduction, Sen. Markey said: “Developing a ‘low-yield’ nuclear warhead for America’s ballistic missile submarine fleet is the height of fiscal and political folly. There is no military requirement for this weapon. Its indistinguishability from any other submarine-launched nuclear weapon risks a miscalculation. Its development is just a further example of how the Trump administration is surrendering decades of American leadership that have helped move the world away from the dangers posed by nuclear weapons. A nuclear weapon is a nuclear weapon, and the Trump administration’s attempts to market a new one are ill-advised and dangerous.” The LYNE Act has been endorsed by: Arms Control Association, Global Zero, Union of Concerned Scientists, Ploughshares, Win Without War, Peace Action, Council for a Livable World, Friends Committee on National Legislation, Beyond the Bomb, Tri-Valley CARES, Physicians for Social Responsibility-Los Angeles, Physicians for Social Responsibility, Washington Physicians for Social Responsibility, Women’s Action for New Directions, Lawyers Committee for Nuclear Policy, Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, Beyond Nuclear, Rocky Flats Right to Know, The Peace Farm, Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom (Middle East and Disarmament Committees), Nuclear Watch South, Our Developing World, Southwest Research and Information Center, and Concerned Citizens for Nuclear Safety.
9.12.2018	Washington D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement on the inclusion of a provision in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 Energy and Water Development, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Branch Appropriations Minibus conference report that would allocate $20,000 in funding for each Member’s office to pay interns: “I am pleased that we are taking a meaningful first step toward providing paid internship opportunities in the United States House of Representatives. While long over-due, I applaud House Appropriators for recognizing the hardships that unpaid internships pose for many who seek to contribute and learn on Capitol Hill. “We must now build on and go further than the Minibus appropriations conference report’s allocation to each House office. This measure only allocates funds for the coming fiscal year, and the funding amount it provides will force offices to choose between paying interns on a less than full-time basis, paying them below the minimum wage in the District of Columbia, or offering a paid internship for only part of the year. Congress has a responsibility to provide equality of opportunity for all to intern on Capitol Hill – and that means funding a full-time, year-round internship position in each Member’s Capitol Hill or district congressional office at a livable wage. “The House Intern Pay Act, which I introduced earlier this month, would authorize funding for a consistent, full-time internship program in each Member’s office at a rate of $15 per hour. I look forward to working with a growing group of my colleagues to bring the House Intern Pay Act to the floor for a vote to ensure that we provide a permanent and dedicated funding stream to pay interns so that all students have the ability to intern on Capitol Hill.”
9.12.2018	Washington, DC – Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement about the Trump administration’s certification regarding the Saudi-led coalition’s activities in Yemen: “The idea that Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are taking sufficient action to reduce the risk of harm to civilians and civilian infrastructure in Yemen is simply wrong. The big picture is this: Last month, a Saudi-coalition airstrike killed dozens of people, including children on a school bus. Saudi Arabia continues its blockade on Yemen, restricting the shipment of food and other goods vital to alleviating the humanitarian crisis. The humanitarian impact of the Saudi-led coalition’s actions is undeniable, and the United States should not be choosing sides in this civil war.”
9.11.2018	Washington D.C. – House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) and House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim Cooper (D-TN) sent a letter to the acting chairman of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (DNFSB), warning against President Trump’s plan to impose extensive, abrupt cuts to nuclear safety staff and gut nuclear safety oversight. The following are excerpts from the letter: “We write to express our strong concern about your abrupt plans for major reforms …announced August 15, 2018, with limited notice and input, to reorganize the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, particularly the ill-advised plan to cut your agency’s headquarters staff level by one third. Hamstringing your agency and targeting your technical staff that represent the core and strength of your agency would likely jeopardize the mission and capability of the Board to fulfill its important mission of ensuring nuclear safety across the nuclear enterprise. … “We have seen problems in maintaining nuclear criticality safety experts at Los Alamos National Laboratory, and there have been several safety violations in recent years. In addition, the DNFSB provides critical oversight and recommendations related to the Environmental Management Program that funds and manages nuclear clean-up activities at sites across the nuclear complex, including Hanford which continues to face safety culture and worker contamination challenges, as well as expensive and complex construction projects. In addition, the 2014 incident, caused by rupture of a radioactive drum that had been incorrectly packaged at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, resulted in a significant contamination release at the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in Carlsbad, New Mexico, and shut down repository operations for nearly three years. … “Now is not the time to increase nuclear safety risk by making cuts to the experts whose primary mission is to provide independent nuclear safety oversight. Coupled with changes in the Department of Energy’s recently proposed 140.1 order, your proposed change to cut DNFSB personnel would undermine the critical oversight on which an enduring, effective and safe nuclear enterprise depend. … “We have yet to see any written analysis to explain the proposed cut to the Board’s staff by a third, and repeated requests by our committee staff for a detailed briefing on these proposed changes have gone unanswered. We strongly urge you and the Board to reconsider this change. In the meantime, we expect a more detailed explanation for this sweeping change that would have enduring implications and potential significant risk for ensuring nuclear safety.” The full letter can be read HERE.
9.11.2018	Washington, DC – Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement in remembrance of the anniversary of September 11, 2001: "Today, we pause to remember the sacrifice and heroism of those who lost their lives on September 11, 2001. They and their deeds will never be forgotten. We must continue to fight to uphold the freedoms and values that they held dear."
9.7.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) release the following statement in response to H.R. 6691, the Community Security and Safety Act of 2018: “Today I opposed H.R. 6691, the Community Security and Safety Act of 2018. This regressive bill will subject even more people to harsher treatment through an already broken criminal justice system. I steadfastly oppose it. “This legislation was introduced less than a week ago in response to the Supreme Court’s April ruling in Dimaya vs. Sessions, which found the legal definition of “crimes of violence” to be unconstitutionally vague. H.R. 6691 creates an overly-expansive new definition of a “crime of violence.” Under this bill, what were previously relatively minor non-violent offenses now could carry significantly increased penalties and potential jail time. This legislation further exacerbates the injustices of our judicial system and moves the justice reform effort backwards. “House Republicans did nothing for four months following the Court’s ruling and then, today, forced a vote on their hasty attempt to fix the deficiencies identified by the Court. Experts, community members, and local law enforcement officials were not consulted and no hearings were permitted, despite the far-reaching ramifications of this issue. “We need to overhaul our judicial system by using evidence-based, state-tested reforms. We should be simplifying unnecessary federal regulatory crimes that lead to over-prosecution of minor offenses. I support legislation that ends racial profiling, promotes accountability, provides legal help to those in need, ends the use of private prisons, and restores fairness to our system of justice. We must continue to find alternative punitive and restorative steps for those who have committed offenses to help end the epidemic of mass incarceration. “Additionally, we should work to reduce the recidivism rate in part by providing assistance to inmates who are returning home. There is broad support for legislation that helps with reentry and to provide equal employment opportunities. I support “banning the box” and prohibiting federal agencies and primary federal contractors from asking about criminal history on an initial employment application. We know that once community members leave prison, we must support education and rehabilitation efforts to ensure that people who will eventually return home from prison will do so equipped with the skills and knowledge necessary to reintegrate into society. “Bipartisan efforts and leadership at the federal level are essential to ensuring wider enactment of restorative justice programs, like those pioneered in Washington state. As we work towards common-sense reforms to our criminal justice system, I greatly value the continuing knowledge and opinions shared with me by constituents. I am committed to working with my colleagues to support protect civil liberties, increase transparency, and work to address bedrock issues that plague our criminal justice system.”
9.6.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) Rep. Ro Khanna (CA-17), CPC Co-Chair Mark Pocan (WI-02), and their colleagues Jim McGovern (MA-02), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02), Michael Capuano (MA-07), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Barbara Lee (CA-13) and Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) released the following statement announcing their commitment to introduce a privileged resolution to withdraw U.S. Armed Forces from engaging in hostilities against Houthis in Yemen. This statement is released on the same day that UN Special Envoy Martin Griffiths’ peace talks between the Houthis and the recognized Yemeni government are set to take place in Geneva. “The people of Yemen face the world’s largest humanitarian catastrophe where 22 million people require humanitarian assistance and almost 18 million lack access to food. The conflict between the Saudi-led coalition and the Houthis has significantly exacerbated this humanitarian crisis. It’s critical that the United States not choose sides in this war, and any American involvement can and must be debated transparently. “The Saudi-led coalition continues military offensives and airstrikes that have killed civilians and worsened the humanitarian crisis. Earlier this month On August 9th, 40 Yemeni children were killed by a U.S.-supplied bomb used in a Saudi airstrike. For every Yemeni civilian killed in an airstrike, countless more perish from hunger and disease triggered and sustained by the war. The Saudi-led coalition, and all parties involved, must be held accountable for their actions contributing to this ongoing crisis. “The National Defense Authorization Act requires the Trump Administration to certify whether the governments of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are undertaking demonstrable actions to reduce the risk of harm to civilians and civilian infrastructure and making urgent and good faith efforts to support diplomacy to end the civil war in Yemen. As the UN attempts to broker a ceasefire, it is imperative that the Saudi-led coalition halt fresh hostilities and planned offensives, particularly in and around the vital port city of Hodeidah. We are closely monitoring the actions of the Saudi-led coalition and the White House during these crucial peace negotiations. “We are preparing to introduce a new, privileged resolution in September invoking the War Powers Resolution of 1973 to withdraw U.S. Armed Forces from engaging in the Saudi-led coalition’s conflict with the Houthis should additional escalations continue and progress fail to be made towards a peace agreement. There has been no specific authorization for the U.S. Armed Forces to engage in hostilities with respect to the conflict between the Saudi-led coalition and the Houthis in Yemen. We must take action to end U.S. participation in this catastrophic war in Yemen and work to bring about a peaceful conclusion to this conflict. “We look forward to working with our colleagues in a bipartisan fashion to secure cosponsors for our resolution and support for the measure when it comes to the floor for a vote.”
9.6.2018	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Adam Smith introduced the House Intern Pay Act, legislation to set aside funds so that interns in each congressional office can be paid. “Paid internships help to provide equality of opportunity for all and ensure Congressional offices in Washington, D.C. and local district offices benefit from a strong diversity of ideas and backgrounds to best represent constituents,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “It is important to provide everyone in our community the opportunity to engage in our legislative process and civic service, regardless of their wealth.” Every year, hundreds of students and recent graduates come to Capitol Hill seeking to learn about and serve in Congress. In the past, many young people have had to begin their careers in policy and public service in unpaid internship positions. For many others, working and interning without pay is simply not possible. Unpaid internships severely limit the opportunities available to those who cannot afford to work for free, but who want to learn and serve. The House Intern Pay Act would help alleviate this problem by allowing for the payment of a living wage to interns in each Members’, Delegates’, and Resident Commissioner’s congressional office in the House of Representatives. Specifically, this bill authorizes amounts to fund a full-time, year-round internship position in each Member’s Capitol Hill or district congressional office at a rate of $15 per hour. Congress must do its part to ensure that a person’s means is not a barrier to civic engagement and public service. This legislation is cosponsored by the following Members of Congress: Don Beyer (VA-8), Nydia Velázquez (NY-7), Madeleine Bordallo (Guam), Mark Pocan (WI-2), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Suzanne Bonamci (OR-1), Judy Chu (CA-27), Ted W. Lieu (CA-33), Denny Heck (WA-10), Betty McCollum (MN-4), Pramila Jayapal (WA-7).
9.6.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), and Representative Adam Smith (WA-9) sent a letter to Anne White, Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management at the Department of Energy, requesting additional public hearings in the Pacific Northwest on the department’s proposal for completing cleanup and closing the C Tank Farm at Hanford. To date, the Department has only held one public meeting on the issue, in Richland, Washington. In the letter the lawmakers wrote, “Public hearings are an important avenue for DOE to both explain the Draft WIR Evaluation and to receive comment from states, tribal nations, stakeholder groups, and the public.” “While we understand the Draft WIR Evaluation is the natural next step from DOE’s perspective, we also recognize this is a complex decision that involves managing waste differently, reclassifying waste, and has the potential to set precedent for the 17 other tank farms at Hanford. A decision of this magnitude should be made in an open and transparent manner with multiple avenues for public engagement,” said the lawmakers. “Therefore, we join the Washington State Department of Ecology and stakeholders groups in calling on DOE to hold additional public hearings in the Pacific Northwest to ensure the views of Washingtonians are heard.” The full letter can be found HERE and below. The Honorable Anne M. White Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management U.S. Department of Energy 1000 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20585 Dear Assistant Secretary White: We write to request that the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) consider holding additional public hearings in the Pacific Northwest regarding the “Draft Waste Incidental to Reprocessing Evaluation for Closure of Waste Management Area C at the Hanford Site, Washington” (Draft WIR Evaluation). Public hearings are an important avenue for DOE to both explain the Draft WIR Evaluation and to receive comment from states, tribal nations, stakeholder groups, and the public. We appreciate that DOE has extended the original 96-day comment period by an additional 60 days, providing more time for the public to review, evaluate, and provide input on the Draft WIR Evaluation. However, to date, DOE has only held one public meeting on the Draft WIR Evaluation in Richland, Washington. We have heard from stakeholders expressing the importance of holding additional public hearings at times and locations that allow for full participation. The Waste Management Area C, also known as the C Tank Farm, consists of 16 single-shell tanks. We commend DOE and the Hanford workforce for retrieving more than 1.7 million gallons of waste from these tanks and transferring it into double-shell tanks. While we understand the Draft WIR Evaluation is the natural next step from DOE’s perspective, we also recognize this is a complex decision that involves managing waste differently, reclassifying waste, and has the potential to set precedent for the 17 other tank farms at Hanford. A decision of this magnitude should be made in an open and transparent manner with multiple avenues for public engagement. Therefore, we join the Washington State Department of Ecology and stakeholders groups in calling on DOE to hold additional public hearings in the Pacific Northwest to ensure the views of Washingtonians are heard. Thank you for consideration of our request. Sincerely,
9.6.2018	em>. “It is utterly irresponsible and appalling that President Trump wants to take away funding for military readiness and infrastructure in order to spend it on his border wall,” said Smith. “We are trying to ensure that our men and women in uniform have the facilities and training they need to face serious dangers while defending our country. If Secretary Mattis follows through on this request, it would undermine those efforts. President Trump should not be taking away money from our troops and spending it on his wall.” “At a time when our country faces many serious national security threats around the world, it is simply outrageous to divert funds from the Pentagon to President Trump’s wasteful border wall,” Lowey said. “House Democrats stand united against this reckless proposal that endangers military readiness and undermines Congress’ Constitutional power of the purse.” “This is simply not the Department of Defense’s responsibility,” said Visclosky. “Military leaders who constantly testify and defend budget requests are well aware of the Congressional authorization and appropriation processes. We must continue to follow these established and Constitutional procedures to ensure that the Department of Defense is able to meet its stated objectives and support our brave men and women in uniform.” “President Trump’s willingness to sacrifice our military’s training and infrastructure to pay for an ineffective border wall is a shameful betrayal of the uniformed men and women who keep this nation safe,” said Wasserman Schultz. “No one who bravely serves our country should be asked to sacrifice our military readiness to pay for this boondoggle.” The letter, which can be found at this link, reads as follows: September 5, 2018 The Honorable James N. Mattis Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Mattis, Last month the Department of Homeland Security transmitted a request to the Department of Defense to enhance existing border fencing and construct new border infrastructure along 31 miles of the Barry M. Goldwater Range in Arizona. With an estimated cost of $450 million, we write to express our strong opposition to the use of Department of Defense funds for this purpose and respectfully urge you to deny the Department of Homeland Security’s request. In countless hearings and briefings this year we have heard from senior civilian and military leadership on the readiness challenges our military currently faces. We have heard about the Department of Defense’s plans to rebuild military readiness, to include investing in additional spare parts and maintenance, increasing training opportunities, growing certain military occupational specialties, and modernizing aging weapon systems. We have also heard the repeated calls from the Department for stable and predictable funding. With that in mind, we fail to see how diverting $450 million away from efforts to rebuild military readiness is in the Department or the taxpayers’ best interests. We are also aware of the risk the Department of Defense has taken in new military construction and the significant backlog in sustainment, restoration, and modernization of facilities that support military readiness and quality of life for military personnel and their families. Department of Defense officials testified that the facilities maintenance backlog across the Department amounted to $116 billion and that 31% of the department’s facilities were in poor or failing condition. Funding the requested border infrastructure project may divert resources away from authorized and appropriated military construction projects, deferring critical investments to meet new mission requirements or replacing failing infrastructure. In addition to concerns with the prioritization of these funds, we also have questions about what statutory authority would be used to fund this project. We note that military construction projects that exceed the minor construction threshold require line-item authorization and appropriation by Congress. Congress has not provided an authorization or appropriation for a border infrastructure military construction project and we do not believe the scope or justification for the project warrants the use of emergency construction authorities or consideration outside of the annual authorization and appropriations process. While reform to our immigration system is needed, we do not believe it is a prudent use of taxpayer funds to have the Department of Defense spend approximately $450 million on 31 miles of border infrastructure. Instead, the Department of Defense should focus its time and resources on infrastructure needs that address the military readiness shortfalls that have been repeatedly highlighted by civilian and military leadership. We appreciate your consideration of our concerns and look forward to hearing from you on this important topic. Sincerely. Adam Smith Nita M. Lowey Ranking Member Ranking Member House Armed Services Committee House Appropriations Committee Peter J. Visclosky Debbie Wasserman Schultz Ranking Member Ranking Member House Appropriations Committee House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Defense Subcommittee on Military Construction, ###
9.3.2018	Washington D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in honor of Labor Day: “On Labor Day, we honor the American worker and the labor movement that is an integral engine of our economy and our social fabric. As the son of a union baggage handler at SeaTac Airport, I know firsthand how labor unions have helped generations of America’s working families thrive. At a time when labor unions are under direct attack, we must show America’s workers the same devotion they have shown to our society. “The contributions of the labor movement have been fundamental in ensuring American workers receive their well-deserved rights. We must continue to fight for jobs that pay a living wage, provide fair workplace conditions, and build a healthcare system that covers those in need. It is vital that we resume investing in the American worker and ensure their success in an increasingly competitive marketplace.”
8.29.2018	Washington, DC - House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement in response to the recently released study, commissioned by Governor Ricardo Rosselló of Puerto Rico, estimating the death toll from Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico at 2,975: “President Trump failed the American people in his response to Hurricane Maria, and it took Congressional pressure to force him to increase his commitment to military disaster relief for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. I cannot explain why he was so unwilling to do the right thing, and when he did, it turned out to be too little, too late. There are studies that show the death toll was in the thousands and not in the hundreds. This is not a situation where you can cover up the true impact on American citizens. The Trump Administration must be held accountable for their reckless mismanagement and failure to respond swiftly and robustly to Americans in need. It is unacceptable the way this tragedy took place.”
8.21.2018	“President Trump continues to push an unrelenting assault on critical protections for our environment. From rolling back fuel mileage standards, undermining clean air and clean water protections, gutting the Endangered Species Act, and opening up our national monuments to development and mining, the President is actively working to endanger our environment. Most troubling of all, he is pushing us towards being more reliant on fossil fuels. It is absolutely clear that carbon-based emissions are heating up earth and putting us on a path that will destroy our planet. We need to get off our dependency on carbon, not promote it. “By gutting the Clean Power Plan, getting rid of federal regulations on carbon emissions, step by step the President is pushing us in the wrong direction. We are already at the point where we have waited way too long to address the impact of climate change and carbon-based fuels. For the President to roll back the progress we have made is disastrous and must be confronted. “One area we continue to make progress is with the Department of Defense. As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have worked with my colleagues to declare that climate change is a national security threat. We have directed funding to pursue clean and alternative energy sources and end our reliance as a nation on fossil fuels. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that the Department of Defense is planning for and mitigating against the impact of climate change and continues to invest in clean sources of energy to reduce our dependency on fossil fuel. “President Trump and Republicans in Congress have chosen to ignore climate change’s very real and negative impacts, and we must fight to stop them. We cannot let actions like today’s proposed rule reverse the critical progress that has been made.”
7.26.2018	Highline priority passes as part of National Defense Authorization Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), the ranking member on the House Armed Services Committee, and U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Commerce Aviation Operations, Safety, & Security Subcommittee, today announced the inclusion of an provision in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to provide Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) funding for noise mitigation projects at schools in the Highline School District in Burien, WA. “This is a great example of how all levels of government can come together to solve a problem. Highline School District has been working tirelessly to meet the terms of the agreement with the FAA to help mitigate noise pollution that the schools experience. The provision in the NDAA was crafted with bipartisan, bicameral support and will help ensure that promises made to our local schools are kept. I thank Senator Cantwell and the Port of Seattle for their advocacy on this critical issue. Having grown up in SeaTac myself, I know it is important to fight for our children’s right to a safe and healthy learning environment,” said Congressman Smith. “These noise mitigation projects are critical to the Highline School District and providing a comfortable and productive learning environment for all students,” said Senator Cantwell. “I was proud to work with Congressman Smith, the Port of Seattle, and Highline School District to get this critical funding across the finish line.” Sea-Tac Airport is located in the center of Highline School District and many of the district’s schools are impacted by airport noise. A 2002 Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the Port of Seattle, the FAA, and Highline School District outlined noise mitigation for a number of Highline School District schools. Since the MOA was signed, the Port and the Highline School District met their portion of the funding obligation. During that time, the noise contours around the airport changed, leaving the two schools in areas where they did not qualify for the previously agreed upon funding. In May, Smith offered an amendment to the NDAA – pushed by Sen. Cantwell in the Senate – to fix the issue by allowing the FAA to provide noise mitigation funding to schools like Highline that no longer qualified for the previously committed funding because of the noise contour changes. The amendment will give the district access to more than $14 million in FAA Airport Improvement Grants for noise mitigation projects including replacement of doors, windows, and the installation of through-the-wall AC units, or for new construction to include noise mitigation. “We are deeply grateful to Rep. Smith and Senator Cantwell for their efforts to ensure that the FAA follows through on its commitment to fund noise insulation at our schools impacted by Sea-Tac International Airport. Our students deserve the highest quality learning environments we can provide them and this will help us do just that,” said Highline Superintendent Susan Enfield. “The Port is committed to economic opportunity and quality of life for all local residents, and there is no more important investment in our communities than modern, clean, and quiet schools for our students. Senator Cantwell and Congressman Smith’s leadership to ensure federal noise-insulation funding for these Highline School District schools is a major victory in that effort,” said Courtney Gregiore, President of the Port of Seattle Commission. Sen. Cantwell offered the language last year in the Senate’s FAA Reauthorization bill, and similar language was offered in the House version of the FAA bill. Rep. Smith ensured its inclusion and ultimate passage in the final NDAA bill. Following today’s passage of the NDAA in the House, the legislation is expected to pass in the Senate and be signed by the president.
7.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) introduced legislation designating the post office at 4301 NE 4th Street in Renton, Washington as the James Marshall “Jimi” Hendrix Post Office. The post office is less than one mile from the site of where Hendrix is buried at Greenwood Memorial Park and is located on the same street as his childhood home. “Renaming the Renton Highlands Post Office the ‘Jimi Hendrix Post Office Building’ is one more way we can celebrate the legacy of one of the greatest musicians of our time and the importance of the south Seattle and Renton areas in his enduring legacy. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame calls Hendrix, ‘the most gifted instrumentalist of all time, a self-taught electric guitarist whose fluid, immersive style was perfectly suited to embrace – and then revolutionize – the late 60’s psychedelic rock movement.’ The Puget Sound Region is home to a museum that showcases Hendrix’s life and work, a park dedicated to his memory, and several memorials visited by thousands every year. This designation will further honor this iconic artist and his Seattle roots,” said Congressman Adam Smith. The legislation is supported by each member of the Washington state Delegation.
7.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), the Ranking Member on the House Armed Services Committee, today announced the inclusion of a package of provisions in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that will provide critical support for the U.S. Department of Energy’s ongoing cleanup mission at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation in Washington state. “It is the federal government’s moral and legal obligation to ensure that the communities surrounding Hanford are cared for, the employees working on the clean-up are respected and safe, and our environment is remediated and protected. Our country’s security owe much to the sacrifices made by the Hanford workers and their communities in support of the nuclear defense programs that created the nuclear waste a currently stored at Hanford,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “The provisions contained in this year’s NDAA contribute to ensuring that the federal government fulfills its obligation to the Pacific Northwest for the safe remediation of the Hanford nuclear facility.” Congressman Smith successfully fought to ensure that the following provisions were included in the NDAA: Increased Budget allocations for Nuclear Clean-up: Authorizes an additional $50 million for Hanford site clean-up at the Central Plateau. Pressing for nuclear safety and whistleblower protection: Includes a provision stating that the Secretary of Energy should impose civil penalties on contractors for violations of Department of Energy (DOE) rules, regulations, and orders relating to nuclear safety and radiation protection. It also enhances accountability by requiring notification of whether the Department of Energy has imposed any of these penalties pursuant to its authorities. This provision was in response to a 2016 GAO report that found that the Department of Energy had very infrequently used its enforcement authority to hold contractors accountable for unlawful retaliation. Improved Transparency: Requires regular briefings to Congress on vapor problems at the Hanford site. Increased Accountability: Requires prompt congressional notification in the case of air release of radioactive or hazardous contamination at Hanford, and requires congressional briefings on cause, estimated timeline and costs for addressing such contamination. Recommits to the Hanford Waste Tank Clean-Up Program: Includes Congressman Dan Newhouse’s amendment to extend the Hanford waste tank clean-up program until 2024.
7.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Smith, Khanna, O’Rourke, and Pocan made the following statements about major provisions on Yemen that House Armed Services Committee Democrats negotiated into the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA.) The bill passed the House today by a vote of 359-54. “There is a terrible humanitarian crisis occurring in Yemen, and it deserves our attention in Washington,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “That’s why I successfully fought to include the following provisions while negotiating the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): Addressing U.S. in-flight refueling of Saudi-coalition aircraft: Prohibits the in-flight refueling of Saudi Arabian or Saudi-led coalition non-U.S. aircraft conducting missions in Yemen, unless certifications are provided by the Secretary of State that the governments of Saudi Arabia and the UAE are taking certain actions related to the civil war in Yemen. Also requires the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and the administrator of USAID to detail a humanitarian support strategy for Yemen, including efforts to coordinate civilian and military efforts; the diplomatic strategy with respect to regional partners seeking to end the civil war; and the role that humanitarian support to civilian populations plays in U.S. strategy. International human rights: Requires the Secretary of Defense to conduct a review to determine whether U.S. Armed Forces or U.S. partners have violated laws or internationally recognized human rights while conducting operations in Yemen, including those related to the interrogation of Yemeni citizens in prisons within Yemen. U.S. strategy and involvement on Yemen: Requires the Secretary of Defense to submit a report to Congress on the U.S. strategy and activities in Yemen, including: the diplomatic and security objectives; indicators for the effectiveness of U.S. military efforts to achieve such objectives or goals; and the costs associated with the military involvement of the U.S. Armed Forces in Yemen. Ex gratia payments: Extends authority for the U.S. to make ex gratia payments in Yemen for civilian casualties. “These will be major steps promoting accountability regarding Yemen’s civil war. I am pleased that we are able to make concrete progress on this issue,” Congressman Smith added. “I strongly urge all sides of this conflict to implement a countrywide cease-fire, and work with the U.N. Special Envoy to negotiate a peaceful resolution to this violence. In Congress, we will keep fighting for transparency and accountability on Yemen. We must be willing to continue to act in the face of this growing crisis.” “I’ve taken bold actions since coming to Congress and worked to remedy the current humanitarian crisis in Yemen being caused by the Saudi-led war in Yemen,” said Congressman Ro Khanna. “As we break for August recess, I want to make it clear to the Saudi-led coalition that Congress is watching. We find additional military hostilities in Hodeida unacceptable and such action will prompt new congressional action. We hope the Saudi-led coalition will work with Martin Griffiths to choose diplomacy over war.” “We are participating in the war in Yemen — I’m grateful that these provisions will ensure that more Americans have a better understanding of our involvement and its consequences,” said Congressman Beto O-Rourke. “The provisions in this bill reflect deep, bipartisan concern in Congress over the mass hunger, cholera, and poverty engulfing the country of Yemen. The Trump Administration has expanded U.S. military participation alongside the Saudis and Emiratis in Yemen without Congressional authorization, aggravating the suffering of 8 million Yemenis on the brink of starvation. I look forward to Secretary Pompeo’s compliance with required reports to Congress on good-faith efforts being made by the Saudi coalition to end the war and alleviate the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. Should the Trump administration tolerate a renewed escalation of hostilities, such as a siege on the vital city of Hodeida, I stand ready to work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to end U.S. involvement in the conflict,” said Congressman Mark Pocan. ###
7.24.2018	of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; and Adam Schiff (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, called on senior Trump Administration officials to brief members of their committees on President Trump’s private meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin last week in Helsinki. In a letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Secretary of Defense James Mattis, and Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats, the lawmakers underscored that the Administration has failed to inform Congress of the topics of the meeting or the agreements that Russian officials claim were negotiated. “Democrats and Republicans alike were shocked to watch President Trump publicly side with Russia over its responsibility for interfering in the 2016 U.S. elections and directly contradict the Intelligence Community’s assessment. But we also have profound concerns over what was said privately and would appreciate the opportunity to discuss with each of you the national security matters that were discussed,” wrote the Ranking Members. Full text of the letter follows and can be found here. Secretary Pompeo, Secretary Mattis and Director Coats: We are writing to formally request briefings of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), House Foreign Affairs Committee (HFAC) and House Armed Services Committee (HASC) regarding President Trump’s private meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki. On July 16, 2018, President Trump held a private meeting with President Putin, where one other U.S. government employee attended—a State Department interpreter. Since the meeting, Congress has received no notification from the White House or Executive Branch about the topics of the meeting or any purported deals or agreements reached on behalf of the United States. It also appears that President Trump’s cabinet has not been briefed on the private meeting, and Congress must be made aware of some of the potential deals or agreements that Russia claims were struck. Democrats and Republicans alike were shocked to watch President Trump publicly side with Russia over its responsibility for interfering in the 2016 U.S. elections and directly contradict the Intelligence Community’s assessment. But we also have profound concerns over what was said privately and would appreciate the opportunity to discuss with each of you the national security matters that were discussed, including Russia; its illegal occupation and attempted annexation of Crimea; ongoing conflict in eastern Ukraine; ongoing sanctions policy towards Russia; Syria; the U.S. commitment to NATO and Article 5; counterterrorism cooperation; strategic stability and arms control; and China. We would appreciate your consideration of our request and hope to schedule a briefing with each of our committees by noon on July 26, 2018. Sincerely, Eliot Engel Ranking Member Foreign Affairs Committee Adam Smith Ranking Member Armed Services Committee Adam B. Schiff Ranking Member Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
7.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement about the completion of negotiations on the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report: “Democrats fought hard and won multiple progressive outcomes in this year’s Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). We do not control Congress, and we cannot get everything we want, but I am pleased that by being persistent we succeeded on many important issues. “Foremost, Democrats defeated multiple provisions that would have been extremely harmful to the environment. Although environmental riders have no place in a defense bill, Republicans have again attempted to undermine the Endangered Species Act, roll back regulations on mining nationwide, and allow the indefinite taking of certain public lands for defense purposes. I am pleased that Democrats succeeded in keeping all of these dangerous riders out of the bill. We also fought and significantly reduced a proposed doubling of an exception to the Marine Mammal Protection Act. In addition, Democrats won inclusion of provisions to help local military communities address climate change related sea level rise, require DOD installations to establish energy and climate resiliency plans, and require plans for energy and conservation policy. “Democrats made significant strides to advance human rights, the promotion of peace, protection of vulnerable populations abroad, and the rule of law in conflict. Thanks to Democrats, the FY 2019 NDAA prohibits in-flight refueling to Saudi Arabia or Saudi-led coalition non-United States aircraft conducting missions in Yemen, unless certifications are provided by the Secretary of State that the governments of Saudi Arabia and the UAE are taking certain actions related to the civil war in Yemen. The legislation furthermore requires a review of whether the U.S. Armed Forces or its partners have violated laws or policies while conducting operations in Yemen. “The bill also includes major provisions on the reporting of civilian casualties in connection with U.S. military operations. The bill requires the Secretary of Defense to develop and coordinate policy for civilian casualties connected with U.S. military operations. The Secretary is also accountable for improving means accessible to the public by which civilian casualties can be reported to the Department. Additionally, we clarify and improve upon requirements for annual reporting of civilian casualties and strengthen Congressional oversight of sensitive military operations. “Transparency is further enhanced by requiring the President to make the total number of deployed members of the Armed Forces publicly available. It also requires the Secretary of State to report on war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide in Syria. The Defense Department is also required to report on transitional justice in Syria and to review the policy framework for military activity like the ongoing operations in Niger. “Supporting service members and their families, HASC Democrats secured the inclusion of a substantial array of provisions to promote safety and combat domestic violence and sexual harassment among military personnel. Specifically, the FY 2019 NDAA establishes domestic violence as a separate article under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. “Democrats were able to remove a provision that would have made it easier for defense contractors to transfer machine guns. The bill closes a gun loophole that that allowed Devin Kelley, who was convicted of domestic violence, to purchase the gun he used in a 2017 mass shooting in a Texas church. The NDAA also requires the creation of an independent National Commission on Military Aviation Safety that I proposed in order to investigate aviation accidents. “This bill continues the absolutely critical work of pushing back against President Putin’s ongoing campaign to undermine U.S. alliances, partnerships, and democratic values around the world. It is essential that Congress do everything it can to try to hold together our commitments in the face of President Trump’s attacks on those institutions. Building on last year’s package of Russia legislation that I introduced in the NDAA, this bill includes the largest investment to date for the European Deterrence Initiative (EDI). It restates of our commitment to NATO and our partners. It extends the prohibition on military cooperation with Russia. It declares that Russia violated the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC). It strengthens the prohibition on funding for activities that would recognize the sovereignty of Russia over Crimea. It requires a whole-of-government response to malign foreign influence operations and campaigns, it improve our cyber and counter-influence infrastructure, and a good deal more. “I am pleased that this bill provides for our men and women in uniform and their families. There are many things to be concerned about in this bill, but the outcomes in these areas are positive.”
7.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus for Effective Foreign Assistance, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) and Congressman Ted Yoho (FL-03), joined with leaders in the international development community to applaud the House of Representatives passage of H.R. 5105, the Better Utilization of Investments Leading to Development Act, known as the BUILD Act of 2018: “Passage of the BUILD Act is an important step to modernizing U.S. international development finance and showing that the United States is committed to leading the international community in supporting less developed countries. This new institution will focus on sustainable, broad-based development programs supporting critically needed projects in communities across the world. It strengthens our ability to support economic growth that ensures people have the opportunity to live healthy lives and achieve their fullest potential,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Make no mistake, this reform is only part of our commitment to providing help to those most in need around the world. We must take an all-in approach to our foreign assistance that includes robust direct assistance from the United States. I will continue to fight for these essential programs promoting health, peace, and stability that are vital to our national security.” “The BUILD Act is the most significant reform of America’s development finance system in decades. By streamlining our foreign assistance efforts, the United States will be more efficient and effective in how we target our foreign investments around the globe. By creating a modern, 21st century, development finance system that better utilizes private sector-led development; we will help countries build their economies so that they can transition from needing our assistance – to opening up their markets for our goods,” said Congressman Ted Yoho. “Taking countries from aid to trade is the end goal. We want to assist countries in becoming robust trading partners with the United States. There is truth to the saying, 'a rising tide lifts all boats.’ By doing so, we will help create stable, self-sufficient societies around the world and open new markets for U.S. goods and services. I’d like to thank Congressman Smith for his support in moving this bill closer to becoming law.” “The new International Development Finance Corporation, as outlined in the BUILD Act, would be an accountable, transparent, impact-focused leader in the development community,” said George Ingram, MFAN Co-Chair and Senior Fellow at The Brookings Institution. “The legislation prioritizes cooperation with USAID, our lead development agency, and directs the IDFC to pursue highly developmental projects, particularly in countries that are subject to extreme poverty, fragility, and violence.” “OPIC’s work with its private sector partners in the poorest countries, conflict-affected areas and other foreign policy hotspots is one of our nation’s most powerful and tangible tools of foreign policy. Development finance catalyzes the private sector investment that is the principal driver of sustainable economic development, job creation and resilient societies. Through its investments in critical power generation, affordable housing, and private schools and hospitals, OPIC and its partners’ investments project the very best of American values, innovation and goodwill. Leveraging the core of OPIC’s strong institutional foundation, the BUILD Act will propel U.S. leadership across the globe by modernizing U.S. development finance capabilities and boosting our impact in tackling poverty and creating more prosperous societies,” said Elizabeth Littlefield, former Chairman, President and CEO of OPIC under the Obama Administration. “The BUILD Act embraces the mission of sustainable, broad-based economic growth, poverty reduction, and development. Provisions in the improved legislation prioritize less-developed countries and small business, and include environmental and social safeguards. It’s encouraging to see the House of Representatives vote in favor of modernizing our finance tools and enabling transparent growth and development,” said Tessie San Martin, MFAN Co-Chair and President and CEO of Plan International USA. “This is not your grandparents’ developing world—it is richer, freer, and has far more agency than it did 40 years ago. If we do not meet the hopes and aspirations of our friends and allies, they will take their business to the Chinese. At the same time, a number of our national security challenges require private sector solutions as part of our response,” said Dan Runde, Senior Vice President of the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “Rather than look at many developing countries as simply recipients of aid, we must look at them as emerging or even emerged partners who desire a deeper relationship built around trade, investment, and economic growth. We should not let this moment pass. When passed, the BUILD Act will be the most important piece of international development legislation in more than a decade.” “The BUILD Act is a positive step in modernizing the way the U.S. supports development around the world. Currently, private investment is being underutilized due to an outdated U.S. development finance infrastructure,” said Connie Veillette, MFAN Co-Chair and Senior Fellow at The Lugar Center. “It’s time for Congress to help unleash more innovative financing tools, while maintaining existing high standards for transparency, evaluation, and performance measurement stipulated in this bill and in the Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act that was enacted into law in 2016.” "Passage of the BUILD Act will dramatically strengthen the capacity of our government to fight poverty in the world through private capital investment and to collaborate with our allies to offer countries a path to prosperity by embracing entrepreneurship, innovation, and private enterprise. In the global marketplace of today, economic influence is an extraordinarily important soft power tool and the United States must redouble its efforts to compete with the Chinese and offer a more compelling narrative for growth. The BUILD Act will provide the tools necessary to compete more effectively and offer a more appealing alternative built around entrepreneurial capitalism,” said Robert Mosbacher, former President and Chief Executive Officer of OPIC. “America has always been a leader in promoting market-based solutions to poverty. The BUILD Act will help the US update our tools to catalyze private investment in the toughest markets in support of development, economic, and security goals,” said Todd Moss, Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Development. “For our partners, the BUILD Act will help to accelerate capital inflows, job creation, and ultimately economic growth.”
7.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Armed Services Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement about President Trump’s meeting with President Vladimir Putin: “We should all be gravely concerned about whatever discussions President Trump has had with President Putin behind closed doors. At every turn of his trip to Europe, President Trump has followed a script that parallels Moscow’s plan to weaken and divide America’s allies and partners and undermine democratic values. There is an extensive factual record suggesting that President Trump’s campaign and the Russians conspired to influence our election for President Trump. Now Trump is trying to cover it up. There is no sugar coating this. It is hard to see President Trump siding with Vladimir Putin over our own intelligence community and our criminal investigators as anything other than treason.” ###
7.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Adam Smith (WA-09) today joined U.S. Representatives Mark Pocan (WI-02), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) and Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) in introducing the Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act. The legislation would convene a commission of experts to provide a roadmap for Congress to implement a humane immigration enforcement system that upholds the dignity of all individuals, which includes terminating the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency (ICE) within one year of enactment. “We need to change the way we do immigration enforcement. Our current system is inhumane; it is separating children from their parents, deporting and detaining too many people, and ripping families apart. None of this is making us any safer. Unfortunately, Speaker Ryan is trying to demagogue the issue. This bill isn’t about stopping immigration enforcement or open borders. It is about shining a light on the injustices of our current system, and changing the way that we conduct immigration enforcement.” “Across my district and throughout our country, ICE is ripping families apart. They are raiding workplaces, invading homes, showing up at courthouses, schools, and hospitals, detaining individuals indefinitely, and instilling fear throughout our communities. We must put a stop to this. President Trump has weaponized this agency to accomplish his racist and harmful agenda. To bring an end to these rampant human rights violations, we must terminate ICE and convene a commission of experts to make recommendations to Congress on the redistribution of ICE’s essential enforcement functions to other government agencies. ICE has strayed far from its original purpose and has failed to enforce immigration laws and protect national security in a humane and just way. I am proud to join several of my colleagues in cosponsoring this necessary legislation, and I will continue to fight to protect the dignity of all individuals.” Background: Congress created ICE in the aftermath of the September 11th attacks with the primary mission of preventing “acts of terrorism by targeting the people, money, and materials that support terrorist and criminal activities.” However, since then, ICE has become synonymous with immigration raids, home invasions, family separation, abusive detention practices, and chronic noncompliance with the law. Recently, ICE agents themselves recognized the irreparable damage being done by President Trump’s actions when nineteen ICE agents wrote to Kirstjen Nielsen, Secretary of Homeland Security, stating that investigations, “have been perceived as targeting undocumented aliens, instead of the transnational criminal organizations that facilitate cross border crimes impacting our communities and national security.” The authors of the letter agree that the agency is now failing to perform its core mission and that the best path forward would be to end it and start fresh. Ending ICE and developing a more humane immigration system that complies with constitutional protections, domestic law, and binding international treaties, while treating every person with respect and dignity is a strong step forward. The Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act would: Convene a commission of experts to provide a roadmap for Congress to implement a humane immigration enforcement system that upholds the dignity of all individuals. This will include transferring issues like organized crime, drug smuggling, and human trafficking to other government agencies that are well-equipped to handle them and have proven track records of transparency, accountability and compliance with the law; Prior to the termination of the agency, direct Congress to act on the recommendations authored by the commission, including the transfer of necessary functions to relevant agencies and the implementation of the new immigration enforcement regime; and Terminate the agency within one year of enactment. The legislation is cosponsored by U.S. Representatives Mark Pocan (WI-02), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09), Jim McGovern (MA-02), José E. Serrano (NY-15), and Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07). The bill text of the Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act is available here. A fact sheet on the Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act is available here. A section-by-section breakdown on the Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act is available here.
7.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY), and 42 other Democrats from the Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committees released the following statement on President Trump’s attendance at the NATO Summit and his meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The members of the Armed Services Committee who released the statement are Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA), Rep. Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Rep. Susan A. Davis (D-CA), Rep. James R. Langevin (D-RI), Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA), Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN), Rep. Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU), Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT), Rep. Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA), Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA), Rep. Marc Veasey (D-TX), Rep. Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Rep. Seth Moulton, (D-MA), Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Rep. Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Rep. A. Donald McEachin (D-VA), Rep. Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Rep. Anthony Brown (D-MD), Rep. Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), Rep. Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), Rep. Thomas R. Suozzi (D-NY), and Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-CA). The members of the Foreign Affairs Committee who released the statement are Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA), Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Rep. Theodore E. Deutch (D-FL), Rep. Karen Bass (D-CA), Rep. William R. Keating (D-MA), Rep. David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA), Rep. Lois Frankel (D-FL), Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Rep. Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Rep. Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Rep. Dina Titus (D-NV), Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Rep. Bradley S. Schneider (D-IL), Rep. Thomas R. Suozzi (D-NY), Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), and Rep. Ted W. Lieu (D-CA): “President Trump must not seek to undo the work that generations of American men and women have done to help defend and uphold democratic values throughout the transatlantic region. Europe returned from the devastation of the Second World War to prosperity largely due to the North Atlantic community’s commitments to its shared values and to collective defense. “The signals regarding potential outcomes that are coming from this administration in advance of the President’s upcoming trip to Europe are deeply concerning. Without question, in his upcoming meetings with NATO and President Putin, President Trump must continue to affirm America’s commitments to our allies, especially Article V of the Atlantic Treaty. He must not praise, condone, or abet any Russian efforts to undermine the sovereignty or democracy of any of our allies and partners. He must take a genuine stand against Russia’s cyber campaigns and its efforts to interfere in our elections. “President Trump must recognize the importance that our forward military presence and joint exercises play in deterring Russia and ensuring military readiness. He must not weaken this posture or suspend or cancel these crucial activities, nor emulate Russian propaganda attempting to discredit them. “He must stand up for Ukraine’s sovereignty over Crimea and against the illegal occupation of Ukrainian territory and maintain sanctions until the conditions in the law are met. He must follow the law passed every year through the National Defense Authorization Act prohibiting military-to-military cooperation with President Putin. And he must continue to stand by NATO’s open door policy on the admittance of new members. The substance and symbolism of these upcoming meetings will matter. The future of the Atlantic alliance and the international order, which has helped make the world safer and more prosperous is at stake.”
6.28.2018	“The so-called ‘compromise’ immigration bill that failed to pass the House of Representatives this week was not a compromise at all – not a single Democrat was consulted in the drafting of the bill. This bill had no significant differences from the Goodlatte bill, which also failed to pass last week. Neither piece of legislation presented any real solutions to fixing our broken immigration system, providing a path to citizenship for Dreamers, or reuniting children with their parents after being unjustly separated at the border. “This administration and Republicans in Congress want you to believe that we only have two choices when it comes to immigration enforcement: we either must separate families and incarcerate immigrants, much like we did to Japanese Americans during World War II, or else we will have ‘open borders’ and rampant crime. “To say that we are limited to only those options, and to refuse to bring up the multitude of legislative proposals that have bipartisan support, is deeply disingenuous. We have clear alternatives. We can process the asylum requests and use alternatives to detention for individuals and families awaiting their immigration proceedings, like the successful Family Case Management Program the President chose to abruptly end, despite its proven success. We can reunite families, give Dreamers a path to citizenship, and work together toward comprehensive immigration reform. “The President has decided that we must be hostile to immigrants and Congressional Republicans have chosen to align themselves with his fear-mongering, xenophobic agenda. He is trying to use this as a wedge issue to misinform and terrify people, and we cannot allow him to do so.”
6.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement on the Supreme Court ruling in the Janus v. AFSCME case: “Today’s Janus v. AFSCME Supreme Court ruling is an attack on public sector workers and their right to organize and collectively bargain for better working conditions. The Court’s decision undermines unions’ ability to work on behalf of and be supported by those workers who benefit from collective representation. “The ability to organize and collectively bargain for benefits is one of the most important advances in American labor law and has been a major factor in the creation of a robust middle class in our country. As the son of a union worker at SeaTac airport, I understand how important labor unions are in the lives of American workers and their families, and I strongly support workers' rights. I learned firsthand from my father, that the right to organize and bargain for better working conditions is extremely important. Labor unions contributed to the creation of America’s middle class, and today are one of the most important means by which working people can push back against economic forces that are increasingly rigged against the working class. At a time when the disparity of wealth is highest in our nation's recent history, labor unions should be able to advocate for expanding equality of opportunity and to support the fight for justice for all. “I stand with unions and their continued efforts to improve the lives of hardworking Americans across the country.”
6.25.2018	Washington, DC – This evening, Representatives Adam Smith (D-WA) and Dave Reichert (R-WA) spoke on the House floor in support of their legislation, the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Act (H.R. 1791). Shortly after, the House of Representatives passed the bill unanimously. “In my home state of Washington, we know well how spectacular the Mountains to Sound Greenway is and why this area is so deserving of this National Heritage Area designation,” said Rep. Reichert. “Today’s vote confirms this area is special to people from all across the country and globe who come to Washington State eager to experience its lush forests and rugged mountains. After years of working on this designation with my colleague, Representative Smith, I am proud to see this bipartisan legislation overwhelmingly pass the House. Now, I urge the Senate to take up this important legislation, so that the Mountains to Sound Greenway receives the full recognition it deserves.” “The passage of the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Act, the first such designation in the Pacific Northwest, reflects the sustainable relationship between Washington state residents and nature in the Puget Sound Region,” Rep. Smith said. “The Mountains to Sound Greenway will help preserve and promote the area’s scenery, resources and history for future generations. I thank Congressman Reichert for his stalwart leadership, the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust for their tireless advocacy, and the engaged community members that made it possible for us to join together in preserving this natural treasure.” This legislation was first introduced by Representatives Reichert and Smith in the 113th Congress as H.R. 1785, the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act. In November of 2014, the House Committee on Natural Resources passed the bill, but the full House never considered it. After receiving feedback over the past four years, Reps. Reichert and Smith reintroduced an improved and strengthened bill in March of 2017. This new bill (H.R. 1791) includes important protections for individual rights, private property owners, and tribal communities. It has the support of over 6,000 individuals and groups from government agencies and officials, businesses, outdoor recreation groups, and conservation and heritage organizations, including the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust and Outdoor Alliance. In June, the House Committee on Natural Resources passed the bill. "The Greenway is a model for working cooperatively to conserve the environment while supporting a strong economy,” said Jon Hoekstra, Executive Director of the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust. “We’re ecstatic that Congressman Reichert and Congressman Smith have succeeded in ushering this bipartisan bill to passage in the House. With Senators Cantwell and Murray as champions in the Senate, our region will soon reap the benefits of this innovative designation." Background National Heritage Areas are congressionally designated partnerships between the National Park Service, states, and local communities through which the Park Service supports local and state efforts to preserve natural resources and promote tourism. National Heritage Areas are not part of the National Park System. No federal regulations are imposed, and no private land is affected or acquired. Rep. Reichert’s legislation does not force private property owners to participate in any activity or provide public access on their land; it does not affect land use planning; and it does not alter, modify or extinguish treaty rights, water rights, or limit the authority of the state to manage fish and wildlife, including hunting and fishing regulations. Heritage Area designations are eligible for federal grants and this designation can help draw financial contributions from state, local, and private sources. On average, each Heritage Area generates about $263 million in economic activity and supports about 3,000 jobs, primarily through tourism and visitor spending.
6.21.2018	e process. Family separation cannot be replaced by family incarceration,” Senator Blumenthal said. “Indefinitely imprisoning children, families, and pregnant women is inhumane and intolerable in a democratic society. History will judge us harshly if we permit these inhumane and immoral policies to be carried out without our opposition.” “It is unacceptable that not only has the Trump administration spent weeks ripping children away from their parents, but they have also forced children and families into inhumane and shameful detention camps,” Senator Duckworth said. “Our bill will hold the Department of Homeland Security accountable and ensure immigrant and refugee families are treated humanely and no longer torn apart or indefinitely detained.” “The United States of America is not and must never be about locking up little children in cages on the southern border,” Senator Sanders said. “This bill will provide important safeguards, preventing the Trump administration’s inhumane detention policies. Instead of throwing entire families in jail, many of whom are fleeing unspeakable violence in their own countries and seeking protection under our asylum laws, we should treat people in a way that upholds our moral values and the ideals of our laws.” “I am disturbed that the Department of Homeland Security continues to violate the rights of families at the Southern border with almost no accountability or oversight. Congress must rein them in now,” Senator Gillibrand said. “I am proud to support this important legislation to help fix our broken immigration system and hold DHS accountable. Keeping our country safe cannot come at a cost to basic human rights. We must ensure that our immigration and border patrol agencies are never acting above the law, and we must also ensure that every family is treated with dignity by our government.” “The Trump treatment of asylum seekers hoping for safe haven in America has been exposed as cruel and heartless. As the proud son of parents who found refuge in the United States from the Nazis, I know firsthand how immigrants and refugees strengthen our country,” Senator Wyden said. “This legislation would restore American values of decency and fair treatment to this administration’s immoral immigration policy so refugees and immigrants would once again find America to be a beacon of hope.” “Our nation’s immigration system has been broken for far too long, and it’s breaking further under the injustices of the Trump administration,” Representative Jayapal said. “We’re saying ‘no more’ to rampant deportation forces, to cruelty and death in detention, and to privately-run detention centers that jail immigrants in order to turn a profit. With our bicameral efforts in the House and Senate, we can bring the Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act into law and restore justice to this system. It is time to make real comprehensive, humane reforms to our detention system, and this bill is the right place to start.” “The problem that we face today is twofold: our immigration system is broken, and the way Donald Trump is choosing to enforce existing immigration laws is dead wrong,” Representative Smith said. “On multiple occasions, the President has created immigration crises that unjustly target immigrant children. I introduced the Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act to address the systemic problems in our immigration detention system. In light of the Trump Administration’s “zero-tolerance policy” and the June 20, 2018 Executive Order on family detention, I am honored to have Senator Cory Booker introduce a Senate companion bill. Our legislation would put an end to the administration’s abuses of the immigration detention system and allow individuals and families to live outside of detention while they await their immigration proceedings. There is absolutely no reason for asylum seeking families to languish in detention facilities while they await the outcome of their cases. We need to pass the Dignity for Detained Immigrants into law to reform our immigration system and keep families together.“ Specifically, the Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act would: Prevent the detention of a primary caregiver, or vulnerable populations (i.e. minors, pregnant women, LGBTQ individuals, survivors of torture, etc.) unless the government can show it is unreasonable or not practicable to place them in community-based supervision. Establish binding civil detention standards that are at least as protective as the Civil Immigration Detention Standards adopted by the American Bar Association in 2012 (the detention standards currently in use are not binding and provide minimal protections modeled on correctional rather than civil detention systems). Require the DHS Office of the Inspector General to conduct unannounced inspections of all detention facilities at least once per year and to make such reports publicly available (the current system of inspections and oversight is rife with loopholes and woefully inadequate to document and remedy egregious failures. For example, facilities are given advance warning of inspections and most facilities are inspected using outdated standards). Negative findings would result in financial penalties for contractors and remedial measures for DHS. Require DHS to investigate any deaths in custody and make the resulting report publicly available (currently, DHS is not required by law release findings publically). Require DHS to terminate all contracts with private prisons and local jails for the purpose of detention over the course of a three-year phase-out period. Require DHS to obtain judicial warrants of arrest or provide detainees a probable cause hearing before an immigration judge within 48 hours of detention. Strike the $1,500 minimum bond amount currently in the statute and require immigration judges to consider the immigrant’s ability to pay when setting bond. Require DHS to render a custody determination within 48 hours of taking an immigrant into custody and grants the immigrant the right to appeal such determination before an immigration judge within 72 hours. Earlier this month, Booker joined Senator Feinstein and 30 other Senate colleagues in introducing a bill to halt the Trump Administration policy of separating immigrant families at the border. Yesterday, he took to the Senate floor to blast the Trump policy.
6.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Smith introduced the Aviation Impacted Communities Act. As airline travel has increased, communities near airports across the country have been experiencing an increased and disproportionate share of noise and other environmental impacts stemming from commercial aviation. This has been the case even as many other areas have experienced reduced overall noise burdens. The concerns of residents of these increasingly impacted areas are not being adequately addressed. The Aviation Impacted Communities Act seeks to help cities, localities, and neighborhoods to better and more productively engage with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). This legislation would require that the FAA communicate directly with residents and locally nominated leaders on issues of aviation noise and environmental impacts. Through the creation of community boards, affected areas will more effectively work toward achieving relief from the impacts of civil and commercial aviation. “The burden of airplane noise and environmental impacts should not fall disproportionately on any single group, neighborhood, or community. The Aviation Impacted Communities Act will help to bring some relief by streamlining the FAA’s engagement processes, allowing residents to bring their concerns directly to the FAA and airport operators, comprehensively assess the effects of aviation in a given area, and seek mitigation for those impacts,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Community engagement by the FAA on the negative impacts of aviation is long overdue and this legislation will provide a pathway to solutions and much needed relief for my constituents and communities across the country.” "Rep. Smith's aviation impacted communities will help our beloved Seattle Beacon Hill neighborhood and other affected neighborhoods. We are under the flight path. Airplanes fly over us every 1-3 minutes. 70% of inbound flights go over our heads. The noise is obnoxious, bad for our health and is disruptive. We are a poor vulnerable neighborhood and this bill will help relieve this unjust burden,” said Estela Ortega, Executive Director, El Centro De La Raza, located in Seattle, Washington. “The Aviation-Impacted Communities Act comes at a critical time and crossroads for our national aviation system. The Act provides an essential new voice and role for communities that have supported, and have been disparately impacted by, aviation industry growth. By seating impacted communities at the same table with government and industry, the Act provides a meaningful tool-kit for better, balanced, collaborative decision-making that can include noise and emission studies, long-term regional plans for reducing impacts, and expanded eligibility for mitigation. Quiet Skies Puget Sound supports and endorses the Aviation-Impacted Communities Act! We greatly value the work, advocacy, and leadership of Congressman Adam Smith on this legislation that so directly targets the preservation of our environment, human health, and quality of life,” said Sheila Brush, Founder of Quiet Skies Puget Sound. The Aviation Impacted Communities Act will: Establish a new “aviation impacted communities” designation for areas suffering from excessive noise or environmental impacts. Define a community eligible for that designation as any residential neighborhood, locality, municipality, town, or city located 3000 feet below, and one mile on either side of any commercial jet route. Require that the FAA alert these communities of their eligibility for the designation of aviation-affected community. Establish a process for communities to bring together airport operators, designated community leaders, and the FAA to discuss solutions in Community Board meetings. Require that appropriate FAA representatives attend community board meetings and respond to community questions and concerns about issues involving aviation or the FAA. Allow communities to petition the FAA for comprehensive impact studies. Require that the FAA develop action plans to respond to communities concerns and the recommendations for mitigation provided in the impact studies. Allow communities to ask for additional noise measurement instrumentation on the ground. Expand the availability of mitigation funding for aviation impacted communities outside of the current 65 day-night average sound level (DNL) contours. Allow sound insulation for communities in the 55 DNL contour The Aviation Impacted Communities Act is cosponsored by Representatives Ro Khanna (CA-17), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (DC) Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), and Stephen Lynch (MA-08). The Act has been endorsed by both Quiet Skies Puget Sound and the Beacon Hill Community Group. Rep Smith has worked directly with impacted communities and taken extensive action to mitigate noise and environmental impacts in the 115th Congress. You can read more about his work HERE. A section by section of the bill can be found HERE.
6.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – In light of reports that military bases are being considered to house migrant children, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith and Senate Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Jack Reed sent the following letter to Defense Secretary Mattis requesting assurances that Members of Congress will be able to conduct necessary oversight over any Department of Defense sites used to house migrant children. Ranking Member Smith released the following statement on the letter, “I will continue to do everything I can to stop this administration’s inhumane policy toward children and their families. It’s unconscionable that we are even in this position in the first place and we must hold the federal government accountable for the care of children within their custody.” “President Trump’s new Executive Order doesn’t solve anything. Congress must exercise meaningful oversight and the Pentagon and the administration must be transparent about the true costs of housing these individuals on military bases,” said Senator Reed. June 20, 2018 The Honorable James N. Mattis Secretary U.S. Department of Defense 1100 Defense Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20301 Dear Secretary Mattis: We understand that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is considering using Department of Defense (DOD) sites to temporarily house unaccompanied migrant children. We write to request assurances that Members of Congress will have access to any DOD lands and facilities, including those on military bases, being used to house unaccompanied migrant children to facilitate appropriate and necessary Congressional oversight. Pursuant to requests from the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) at HHS, it is our understanding that DOD provides information about potential facility and land options for HHS to consider for housing unaccompanied migrant children. While we recognize that these children are in the custody of HHS, we expect DOD to work with HHS to ensure that Members of Congress will be able to exercise Congressional oversight over any housing of unaccompanied migrant children on DOD property. Given the expected continued increase in the number of children in the custody of ORR, and the importance of ensuring appropriate care and safety of these children, it is essential that Members of Congress have access to these facilities even in circumstances where short-notice is provided. The Administration’s “zero tolerance policy” is simply cruel and inhumane. It is unconscionable that children are being separated from their parents at the border, many of whom are legally seeking asylum or humanitarian aid from violence they face in their home country. This abhorrent policy does nothing to improve our national security or address the factors that led these families to flee their home country. It is detrimental to our standing in the world and directly counter to the values our country was founded on. We will continue to fight against the separation of children from their families. Congress must be able to conduct direct oversight to ensure these children are receiving the care they need and deserve while they are in the custody of the federal government. Given the Administration’s continued implementation of this objectionable policy, we request your confirmation that Members of Congress will have access to DOD sites selected by HHS for temporary housing of migrant children. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Adam Smith Jack Reed Ranking Member Ranking Member House Armed Services Committee Senate Armed Services Committee ###
6.9.2018	Washington D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Adam Smith sent the following letter to Attorney General Sessions, Homeland Security Secretary Nielson, and Health and Human Services Secretary Azar citing concerns with recent practices of detaining applicants for asylum at the Federal Detention Center in SeaTac, Washington. Today, Smith joined with Governor Jay Inslee, Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson, and Reps Jayapal, DelBene, and Heck to bring attention to the disturbing rise in family separations. Following the news of the family separations, ahead of the Press Conference, Smith said, “I am deeply disturbed by reports that a number of women who are seeking asylum are being detained at the Federal Detention Center in SeaTac after being separated from their children. Under the law, these families have the right to apply for asylum, and should not be torn apart while the process is taking place. I condemn the Trump Administration’s zero-tolerance policy of separating immigrant families. This policy goes against the very ideals that our country was founded on, and I will continue to fight to keep families together.” June 8, 2018 The Honorable Jeff Sessions The Honorable Kirstjen Nielsen Attorney General of the United States Secretary of Homeland Security United States Department of Justice United States Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20530 Washington, DC 20528 The Honorable Alex M. Azar II Secretary of Health and Human Services United States Department of Health and Human Services Washington, DC 20416 Dear Attorney General Sessions, Secretary Nielsen, and Secretary Azar: I write regarding reports that potentially over 100 women seeking asylum are being detained at the Federal Detention Center (FDC) in SeaTac, Washington. Reports have also indicated that these individuals arrived in Washington state after being separated from their children and transferred from the U.S.-Mexico border by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). I am extremely concerned that the Administration is violating longstanding asylum law and infringing on the due process of these women, while inflicting lasting harm to their families and children. It has also come to my attention that the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) has entered into Inter-Agency Agreements with ICE to detain individuals at the Federal Correctional Institution (FCI) in Sheridan, Oregon, the FCI in Phoenix, Arizona, the Federal Satellite Low (FSL) in La Tuna, Texas, and the FCI in Victorville, California, in addition to the FDC in SeaTac. As the Administration prepares to separate more families and hold parents away from their children in federal detention facilities across the country, I request the following information to better understand these new developments in immigration detention protocol: Where are the children of the parents being detained at SeaTac and other prisons across the country? What are the current policies in place for housing and caring for the sudden large number of children being separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border? What are you doing to ensure parents and children are transferred to locations within close proximity to each other? Since these individuals have the legal right to seek asylum, why are they being held in federal prison while their asylum claims are being processed? Do the detained people have access to legal services? What are you doing to ensure they know their legal rights as asylum seekers? When will the people detained at SeaTac and other federal prisons be released and when will they be reunited with their children? What protocol do you have in place to reunite parents with their children? In addition to answering these questions, I urge you to immediately halt the terribly inhumane policy of separating children from their parents and work diligently to reunite families. This “zero tolerance policy” goes against basic human dignity. Thank you for your time and attention to this critical issue, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Adam Smith Member of Congress ### A PDF Version of the letter can be found HERE.
6.4.2018	Washington D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith issued the following video statement in support of Net Neutrality. Below is the text of the statement, and the full video statement can be viewed HERE. Congressman Smith has taken the following actions to protect access to the internet in advance of, and following, the Federal Communication Commission decision to end Net Neutrality in late 2017: Original co-sponsor of H.J.Res. 129 – Congressional Review Act (CRA) joint resolution of disapproval. H.J.Res 129 allows Congress to use a less cumbersome procedure to negate the FCC’s rule change than passing a bill through the regular legislative process; if enacted, would reverse the FCC’s decision to discard the 2015 Open Internet Rules, thereby maintaining net neutrality. Signed Discharge Petition for H.J.Res. 129, the CRA joint resolution of disapproval – to bring the resolution to the House Floor for a vote. Co-sponsor of H.R. 4585, the Save Net Neutrality Act of 2017 – legislation that would have prohibited the FCC from adopting the so-called “Restoring Internet Freedom” order that overturned Net Neutrality. Joined a letter with Rep. Mike Doyle and over one hundred other Members of Congress in calling on FCC Chairman Pai to delay implementation of the repeal of net neutrality. Independently weighed in with (by letter) the FCC Chairman to convey the sentiments of the thousands of constituents who wrote in asking the FCC to reject the order to eliminate net neutrality regulations. Transcript of Video Statement Net neutrality is an incredibly important issue. It sounds complicated at first glance, in terms of how do you regulate the internet, what’s involved. But what’s really involved is the freedom of the internet, and that’s incredibly important. Net neutrality needs to be protected. And what it means is very simple. It means that everybody has equal access to the internet. What the FCC has done under President Trump, is they have allowed companies to give out special access, so that companies may be more easily to get their content to the user on the internet. This undermines innovation and undermines freedom. Say you’ve developed a brand new application that you think could compete with, Google, Yahoo, anybody. But now your website gets to the consumers slower because some other content provider has paid more to the people that provide access to the internet; to get faster access. Well that undermines innovation, that undermines freedom, and it stifles the best parts of the internet, which are creativity and innovation. We need to restore net neutrality in any way that we can. We need to keep putting pressure on the FCC to change their ruling, and if we can do stuff on the state level to at least give us net neutrality locally, we should do that as well. I cannot possibly be in more strongly in support of net neutrality. I urge people to speak out as loudly as they can to get us back to the place where we have net neutrality and a free and open internet for all.
5.26.2018	Washington D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in honor of Memorial Day, observed on Monday, May 28, 2018. “On Memorial Day, we honor the men and women who serve our country, and those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice for the safety of our country. On this day, we express our gratitude to the servicemembers who work to secure peace throughout the world. “As Ranking Member on the Armed Services committee, I will continue to fight for servicemembers and their families, ensuring they receive the support and resources they have earned. Memorial Day serves a uniting force in America, in which every American can reflect on the American values that make our country strong and prosperous. I join our entire country in honoring our veterans who lost their lives while preserving our freedom.”
5.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to provide for noise mitigation for the Highline School District. Amendment #538 clarifies that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) can provide funding for noise mitigation to schools that are outside the current noise contours if the FAA entered into a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the schools before September 2002. “Highline School District has been working tirelessly to meet the terms of the agreement with the FAA to help mitigate noise pollution that the schools experience. Today’s amendment, crafted with bipartisan support and in coordination with the House Transportation Committee will help ensure that promises made to our local schools are kept. Having grown up in SeaTac myself, I know it is important to fight for our children’s right to a safe and healthy learning environment.” Background: Smith authored the amendment to ensure that funding for noise mitigation agreed upon in a 2002 MOA between the Port of Seattle, the FAA, and Highline School District was provided to two remaining schools that were recently deemed ineligible for funding. Since the MOA was signed, the noise contours around the airport changed, leaving the two schools in areas where the FAA could not legally provide mitigation despite the prior agreement being in place. This amendment will allow for the FAA to provide the promised funding to the remaining schools so that they can acquire insulated doors, windows, and other forms of sound mitigation.
5.23.2018	on D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith spoke on the House Floor during debate of the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act: Click here and look below for House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith’s remarks on fiscal responsibility and the FY 19 defense bill: https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4730838/rep-adam-smith-debates-fiscal-responsibility-fy19-ndaa Click here and look below for Smith’s remarks on nuclear weapons and the FY 19 defense bill: https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4730832/rep-adam-smith-debates-nuclear-weapons-fy19-ndaa Click here for Smith’s full opening remarks in debate on the FY 19 defense bill: https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4730829/rep-adam-smith-debates-fy19-ndaa Remarks on fiscal responsibility: "In these times of scarce resources, it is incredibly important that we get the most out of what we spend. On that point: I do worry about the future, from a fiscal standpoint. We are right now spending roughly 20% more money than we take in every year, and that is projected to go up. The debt-to-GDP ratio is over 100% and, again, is projected to only go up. "Now we’ve got the deal for FY 18 and FY 19, which gives some degree of predictability for our military and that’s good. Because the last, gosh, eight years now we have gone from CR to CR, a couple government shutdowns, a number of threatened government shutdowns, and a large amount of unpredictability. Which is a problem for the entire discretionary budget, not just the Department of Defense. Every other department that is dependent on the discretionary budget has lived with uncertainty. That makes our government less efficient and less effective. We need to lock in more predictability. "Now, traditionally at this point, this is when everyone says that the Budget Control Act and the budget caps have got to go. And I agree with that. The problem is you get rid of the budget caps, you get rid of the Budget Control Act—and we certainly should: that was passed back in 2011 and it wasn’t even passed for a good reason back then—but even if you get rid of those caps, it doesn’t make money magically appear. "We still have the debt and the deficit that we are facing. We still have the crushing needs that we have, not just in the Department of Defense, but in infrastructure and research and education and a whole bunch of critical areas to the health and well-being of our country. "Somehow in the next few years--and I’ll admit I was joking when someone talked about his fiscal hawk credentials that I’m wondering if anybody has fiscal hawk credentials at this point when you look at the debt and deficit--we have got to get that in order. Now I don’t think we’re going to balance the budget tomorrow. I don’t think we should—I think the impact on the economy would be devastating. But we’ve got to get on a glide path to a more fiscally sustainable situation or we are headed for trouble. I simply don’t believe that you can spend 20% more money than you take in, forever, and have it not be a problem. "And everything you want to know about how big a problem this is is contained in three votes that I think we took over a one-month, couple-month period. There are many, many members of Congress who voted for the tax cut, which estimates are it’s going to reduce our revenue by $2 trillion; for the spending agreement, which increased our spending by $500 billion; and then a week later they voted for a balanced budget amendment. To say that that’s a math problem is the understatement of the evening. "It doesn’t add up. We all say we want to balance the budget, we don’t want to raise taxes, we don’t want to cut spending. That doesn’t work, and a lot of different aspects of our government pay a price for that, but the Department of Defense is one of the biggest. As the largest portion of the discretionary budget, they pay the highest price when we don’t get ourselves on a fiscally responsible path, and national security is at least one of if not the most important function that our government needs to provide. "So I think FY 18 and FY 19, those are good deals, but building for the future, we have got to get on a fiscally responsible path. But again within this bill, and you’ve heard a lot of it from our members, there are a lot of good policies that I think are going to make a very positive difference in terms of making our Department of Defense work better, and most importantly providing for the men and women who serve our country and their families." Remarks on nuclear weapons: "The one thing that I would point out that is the most troubling to me is the endorsement of the Nuclear Posture Review that was just put forward by the administration. I am very concerned, number one, that we are spending too much money on our nuclear weapons arsenal going forward, and what impact will that have on those other needs that I mentioned just a minute ago?: What impact will that have on readiness? What impact will it have on our ability to have the forces forward deployed enough to deter Russia, to deter North Korea, to deal with China’s rise in Asia? "So I think we are overemphasizing nuclear weapons, number one, in terms of the amount of money that we are spending on them, but equally as troubling, this bill authorizes low-yield nuclear weapons for the first time in a very long time. It even authorizes a low-yield nuclear weapon for our submarines. I believe that puts us down a dangerous course. We need to make sure we are deterring any possibility of nuclear war. "There is a huge risk as Russia rises back up, with what North Korea is doing, now that we’re not in the nuclear agreement with Iran—what they might be doing—that we must avoid miscalculation and stumbling into a nuclear war. Thinking that there is such a thing as a tactical nuclear weapon, a weapon small enough that it doesn’t really rise to the level of the other nuclear weapons, I think is a mistake. And, yes, I know Russia is building them. So the question is how do we deter Russia? "Well, I think we deter Russia in a very straightforward way. We have over 4,000 nuclear warheads. We have more than enough nuclear firepower to present a credible deterrent to what they are doing. We don’t have to say, well, if you use a small nuclear weapon, we won’t want to use a bigger one in response. We want to say that our deterrence is, if you cross the red line of all red lines and use a nuclear weapon, we will respond overwhelmingly. We want to make sure it never happens.” ###
5.17.2018	Washington D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement today in opposition to the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, known as the Farm Bill. “This week, the House of Representatives is expected to vote on the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, known as the Farm Bill. This Farm Bill is a missed opportunity to put forward a bipartisan bill that addresses our food insecurity challenges and supports conservation, agriculture, and related programs that are vital to preserving the environment and strengthening our economy. “The cuts and changes this Farm Bill makes to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) are drastic and harmful. People from every walk of life – children, veterans, seniors disabled, and hard-working families – rely on SNAP every day, including 930,000 people from across Washington state. The changes made to SNAP, such as implementing stricter work requirements and restricting the ability for states to extend SNAP benefits to low-income working families based on the high cost of utilities, housing, childcare, or medical care, will result in an estimated $23 billion cut to SNAP benefits, taking essential support away from 2 million Americans. “Claims that this Farm Bill will get SNAP recipients back to work are misguided and fail to recognize the realities facing working families. SNAP already has strict work requirements, and roughly 80 percent of those benefiting from SNAP who are already required to work, do so in the year before or the year after being on SNAP. Furthermore, many individuals who rely on SNAP don’t have full-time or year-round work, especially in a diverse economy like Washington. The work requirements in this bill would place an immense burden on states, as the bill fails to provide adequate resources or time for states to comply with the bill’s timeline to institute the new work programs. “This untested and unfunded expansion of employment and training (E&T) programs would put successful E&T programs at risk, such as Washington’s Basic Food Education and Benefit (BFET). BFET has been remarkably effective in providing education and training to help individuals obtain employment. Washington is one of ten states currently participating in an expanded E&T pilot program. If Congress is serious about improving workforce training and getting more Americans back to work, we should continue to invest in these pilot programs to determine what works instead of creating a new massive bureaucracy to manage untested mandatory programs. “Republicans have also used this Farm Bill as an opportunity to once again undermine our environmental laws and diminish conservation programs. The bill would threaten our clean water by eliminating the Clean Water Act General Pesticide Permit Program, which provides much needed oversight of pesticides sprayed into our waterways. Instead of strengthening conservation programs, it makes an overall cut of $800 million to the Conservation Title. Lastly, this Farm Bill would attack environmental protections for public lands and forests vital to Washington, such as the inclusion of provisions exempting environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) for over 45 activities on public lands nationwide. “The bottom line is that if this bill were enacted, an estimated 25,000 households or 60,000 people in Washington state would lose their SNAP benefits. It’s appalling that just a few months after passing a corporate tax cut bill that costs Americans 1.5 trillion dollars, Republicans can justify taking essential nutrition support away from individuals and families that desperately need it.”
5.9.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ted. S. Yoho (R-FL), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific, and Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statements after a full committee mark up of their Better Utilization of Investments Leading to Development Act (BUILD) - H.R. 5105. “Passage of the BUILD Act out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee is a significant milestone towards helping to bring U.S. international development financing into the 21st century,” said Rep Adam Smith. “I worked closely with Chairman Royce and Subcommittee Chairman Yoho on an amendment to help focus the new institution on sustainable, broad-based development programs that support social and economic outcomes. I was very pleased to see several additional amendments pass which strengthened labor and environmental standards, as well as oversight and transparency in the new institution. This bill is an example of what bipartisan cooperation can accomplish, and I look forward to the next steps.” “Today we have taken another important step forward in modernizing America’s development finance system,” said Rep. Ted Yoho. “The BUILD Act will make our nation more competitive on the global stage and the distribution of our foreign aid dollars more efficient. Thank you to Chairman Ed Royce, Ranking Member Eliot Engle, Congressman Adam Smith, and all my colleagues for their continued support of this bipartisan, bicameral bill. I look forward to having President Trump sign the BUILD Act into law eventually.” ###
5.8.2018	Washington, DC – Today, the House Committee on Natural Resources passed unanimously the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act (H.R. 1791). Bill authors, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Adam Smith (D-WA) applauded this action. “In Washington State, we know full well that the spectacular landscape of the Mountains to Sound Greenway is worthy of national recognition,” said Rep. Reichert. “This morning’s vote shows that my colleagues here in Congress understand that as well. I am proud to see this bill move forward, so the Greenway receives the official recognition it deserves. The Greenway benefits Washingtonians and visitors from around the world, which is why it is important to honor this beautiful land. I thank Chairman Bishop for his work on this bill, and look forward to its consideration by the full House.” “I am pleased to see the House Natural Resources Committee voted unanimously to pass H.R. 1791, legislation I have co-sponsored with Congressman Reichert,” said Rep. Adam Smith. “The designation of Washington’s Mountains to Sound Greenway – over 1.5 million acres of land stretching from Seattle to Ellensburg – as a National Heritage Area will help preserve and promote the area’s scenery, resources and history for future generations. I thank Congressman Reichert for his leadership and the passionate community members with the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust for their support of this important piece of legislation. I hope to see this legislation brought to the House floor for a vote in the near future.” This legislation was first introduced by Representatives Reichert and Smith in the 113th Congress as H.R. 1785, the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act. In November of 2014, the House Committee on Natural Resources passed the bill, but the full House never considered it. In the same Congress, the Senate companion legislation passed out of Committee, but it did not receive consideration on the Senate floor. After receiving feedback over the past four years, Reps. Reichert and Smith reintroduced an improved and strengthened bill in March of 2017. This new bill (H.R. 1791) includes important protections for individual rights, private property owners, and tribal communities. It has the support of over 6,000 individuals and groups from government agencies and officials, businesses, outdoor recreation groups, and conservation and heritage organizations, including the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust and Outdoor Alliance. “Our region is a model for the nation. We’ve built a booming economy, while simultaneously conserving the Pacific Northwest's iconic mountains, forests, rivers, and lakes. Designating the Mountains to Sound Greenway as a National Heritage Area celebrates this unique approach of economy and environment working in concert, not in conflict." said Jon Hoekstra, Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust Executive Director. "We applaud Congressmen Reichert and Smith for their dedication to and leadership on this effort over the years and look forward to helping achieve this legacy accomplishment.” Rep. Reichert and former Washington Senator Slade Gorton testified before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Federal Lands last month on H.R. 1791. A bipartisan group of members from the King County Council attended the hearing in support of the legislation, including King County Councilmember Reagan Dunn, who also submitted a letter of support for the bill. ###
5.8.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Armed Services Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement about President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) with Iran: “This decision will make us less safe by allowing Iran to quickly acquire a nuclear weapon, separating us from our allies, and fueling instability in the region. The JCPOA has so far been successful in preventing Iran from advancing toward the acquisition of nuclear weapons. It did not cover issues such as ballistic missiles or Iranian support for terrorism, but President Trump has offered no alternative that would do a better job at securing America’s vital security interest in preventing a nuclear-armed Iran while avoiding the possibility of an unnecessary and potentially catastrophic clash. Without question, this decision runs the risk of far greater conflict and in the short term, at a minimum, far greater destabilization of the Middle East.”
4.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, seven House Democratic national security leaders sent a letter to Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen and Defense Secretary James Mattis to oppose President Trump’s recent decision to deploy National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border. Given the potential cost and with border crossings at a 40-year low, the Administration must provide a thorough justification and plan for any deployment of troops and use of taxpayer funds. News reports indicate the Administration is only now drafting a deployment plan, indicating how rushed this decision was, while some governors have now begun committing troops for this operation. The letter was signed by House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith, Committee on Homeland Security Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson, Judiciary Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler, Oversight & Government Reform Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings, Homeland Security Border & Maritime Security Ranking Member Filemon Vela, Judiciary Immigration & Border Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren, and Oversight & Government Reform National Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch. In the letter, the Members write: “A deployment of this kind is not to be made lightly. Thorough consideration of the justification for such a deployment, along with the implications and costs for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Department of Defense (DOD), and affected stakeholders well in advance of such a deployment are both required and essential.” “As you are undoubtedly aware, border security has been a rigorously discussed topic over the past year. We are surprised and puzzled as to why neither of you nor other members of the Administration mentioned a possible deployment of the National Guard to the southern border before. For example, Secretary Nielsen never once mentioned the potential need to use the National Guard for border security purposes when testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee on January 16, 2018. In subsequent press briefings and televised Cabinet meetings, this approach was not discussed either.” “A hastily and poorly designed deployment could have significant negative impacts on our national security, border security, and on the communities located along the U.S.-Mexico border.” Link to Letter. # # #
4.12.2018	Washington, DC – Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), Senate Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Jack Reed (D-RI), House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee Ranking Member Jackie Speier (D-CA), and Senate Armed Services Personnel Subcommittee Ranking Member Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis requesting additional details about the process by which the Department of Defense (DOD) developed the policy recommendations regarding transgender service members that were provided to President Trump in a memorandum dated February 22, 2018. The letter reads: Dear Secretary Mattis: We write today to ask for additional details about the recommendations you provided to the President in a Memorandum dated February 22, 2018, regarding military service by transgender individuals. We were surprised and disappointed by the recommendations contained in that memorandum. In our view, these recommendations contradict previous findings from the Department of Defense (DOD) and the professional medical community. As the President has empowered you to implement appropriate policies governing service by transgender individuals, we feel it imperative that we explore the factual bases behind your recommendations. Your letter to the President stated you created a Panel of Experts of senior uniformed and civilian Defense Department leaders and charged them to provide their best military advice without regard to any external factors. Although you state that the panel received input from civilian medical professionals, the recommendations appear to us to be inconsistent with what we have heard from the civilian medical community. Numerous recognized experts, former military officials and Surgeons General, and organizations representing medical professionals have released statements criticizing the Report’s recommendations and the underlying scientific basis for these recommendations. Relying on recognized experts and gathering diverse opinions and perspectives is crucial to the development of an informed and sound policy. Given the discrepancies between the Report’s recommendations and assessments of transgender military service previously made by DOD, and given the concerns raised by outside medical professionals and former military leaders, we would like to better understand the process by which DOD developed the Report. Specifically, we would like to know: Who was on the Panel of Experts? Who did the Panel consult with? Did the Panel consult with the American Psychiatric Association, American Psychological Association, or American Medical Association or any other medical professionals with expertise in gender dysphoria? In your view, what are the substantial risks associated with the accessions and retention of transgender persons? Can you please provide any examples that since June 30, 2016 these issues have arisen within the military and describe how the DOD or services handled these situations? In your view, what are the specific issues that could undermine readiness, disrupt unit cohesion, and impose an unreasonable burden on the military? Can you please provide any examples that since June 30, 2016 these issues have arisen within the military and describe how the DOD or services handled these situations? Were any government officials outside of DOD or the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) involved in the Report or your Memorandum to the President? If so, who were these officials and what was the basis for their involvement? Finally, please provide the specific medical and scientific data that supported the conclusions contained in your memorandum. There are currently thousands of transgender individuals openly serving in the military with bravery and distinction. There has been no indication that this has had an impact on overall readiness. All individuals who are willing and qualified should be able to volunteer to serve, regardless of their gender identity. Since the wars began, the military services have appropriately moved away from identity-based service standards (including restrictions concerning sexual preference and gender) and have opted instead to rely on performance-based metrics; if you can do the job, you can compete for the job. Your policy recommendations, if implemented, would reverse this progress. Moreover, any ban on capable individuals serving in our military only shrinks the pool of available recruits and denies our military access to the skills, expertise, and experience of qualified servicemembers and talented recruits. We appreciate you giving due consideration to our questions and concerns and would welcome the opportunity to discuss this matter with you. The full letter is attached, and a link to the letter can be found here.
4.10.2018	“With the passing of Rev. Dr. Samuel B. McKinney, our community has lost an instrumental leader of the civil rights movement. After moving to Seattle in 1957 to become a pastor in the historic Mount Zion Baptist Church, Reverend McKinney was a pastor in the church for over 40 years. A former classmate of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr, he played a fundamental role in Dr. King’s trip to Seattle. “As spiritual leader for many in the African-American community in Seattle, Reverend McKinney understood that for African-Americans to be fully empowered, they must be supported and uplifted economically. When he arrived in Seattle, he witnessed systematic injustices such as discrimination, redlining, high unemployment among African-Americans. Reverend McKinney established numerous organizations and businesses to combat discrimination. He helped establish the first black-owned bank to challenge practices such as restricted loans. He also co-founded the Seattle Opportunities Industrialization Center, a vocational training organization. Though Reverend McKinney has passed away, his legacy and advocacy for equal rights of African-Americans will remain ever present in the Greater Seattle community.”
4.10.2018	“President Trump’s decision to deploy the National Guard on the U.S. border is an ill-conceived, unnecessary stunt that inappropriately militarizes the issue of immigration enforcement. He appears to have based his decision largely on reports disseminated by conservative talk shows. The fact remains that according to the U.S. Border Patrol, for Fiscal Year 2017, illegal border crossings are at their lowest levels since 1971. It is unclear what deploying the military for an indefinite period of time will accomplish that our civil authorities have not already done, beyond sending a discriminatory message to people fleeing violence and conflict, and diverting funds away from rebuilding military readiness. “What we really need is comprehensive immigration reform and an end to demagoguery, and the President has taken us in the exact opposite direction. Frankly, if this Administration was committed to decreasing the number of displaced persons fleeing incredible violence and conflict, they would invest heavily in international development programs that work to reduce fragility, and strengthen rule of law, and increase economic opportunities in these countries. Trump’s decision fails to even remotely address the root causes of the issue at hand.”
3.23.2018	“President Trump’s decision to ban transgender military service is vicious, inhumane, and utterly wrong. There are scores of transgender men and women serving in the military right now, under a policy that had already been established & vetted by DOD and validated by the courts. “There is zero credible evidence that this policy has negatively affected readiness. By issuing this decision, President Trump has engaged in an act of pure discrimination against people who sacrifice every day to serve their country—and who have been doing so for years. “Stripping patriotic service members of their ability to serve openly in this way goes against American values. I condemn this decision and will continue to fight it with all of my abilities. “Congress should start by passing the bipartisan bill I introduced last October that would protect transgender members of the U.S. military by preventing DoD from removing currently serving members of the Armed Forces based solely on their gender identity.”
3.22.2018	“Today the House of Representatives passed an omnibus spending bill that funds the federal government through the end of September. This bill will give more certainty to our federal agencies, but unfortunately it underfunds key areas of the budget and takes us further down our current path of fiscal irresponsibility by ballooning our federal debt and increasing our already unmanageable deficit. “Many vital environmental programs that protect our health and public lands will not be sufficiently funded. It also underinvests in our core diplomatic and aid missions which are essential components of our national security. As rates of displaced individuals across the world reach historic highs on top of worsening famines, disease outbreaks, and weakening fragile states, it is critical that we focus on global engagement and not allow diplomacy and development efforts to stagnate. “Additionally, the omnibus ignores a number of critical policy priorities. The bill does not provide any solution to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) crisis the President created last year. It also chips away at the core tenets of the Affordable Care Act, without providing any meaningful solutions to improve our health care system. We also missed the opportunity to provide protections for Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation into Russian involvement in the 2016 election. “The omnibus took a small step in addressing the epidemic of gun violence by strengthening the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) but this is not enough. Our communities have made it clear that they want significant and comprehensive policy solutions to the gun violence that remains pervasive through our country. Overall, this bill does not deliver the solutions that will provide opportunities for and protect the livelihoods of all Americans.”
3.15.2018	WASHINGTON—Today, a bipartisan group of House members introduced legislation to promote more effective development in fragile and unstable countries, addressing the conditions that create safe havens for terrorists, criminal networks, and war lords. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act (H.R. 5273) would require the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to ramp up coordination with the Departments of State and Defense to develop a global initiative aimed at preventing the root causes of violence and instability in countries around the world. The bill was introduced in the House by Representatives Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ted Poe (R-TX), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Adam Smith (D-WA), Bill Keating (D-MA), and Paul Cook (R-CA). “The United States has been at war for 16 years and has spent decades more working to stabilize fragile countries. This bill would make us take a hard look at what’s working and what isn’t, and help relevant agencies work more closely to tackle this challenge. After all, when we help countries become stronger and more stable, we make it harder for terrorists, criminals, and other violent groups to put down roots. That makes the United States and our partners safer,” said Rep. Engel, Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. “I’m pleased to join with this group of lawmakers that spans the aisle to offer this measure and I hope the House acts on it soon.” “With the rise of modern terrorism, fragile and failing states have become breeding grounds for radicalism and terrorist activity, directly threatening the national security of the United States. We must spend our already existing foreign assistance money more effectively, preventing states from failing in the first place. This allows us to later avoid undertaking costly military and nation-building interventions where terrorists find safe haven. Using the lessons we have learned over the last two decades, we must require our government develop long-term strategies to address conditions which lead to violent failed states, ultimately weaning them off American aid. The bipartisan Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act will ensure our taxpayer money is spent on carefully planned strategies that contribute to our national security and reduce violence abroad,” said Rep. Poe, Chair of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. “We cannot relent in our efforts to deny extremist groups territory from which they can conduct operations against the United States and the West. As ISIS and other terror groups and individuals spread violence and hatred in societies across the globe, it is clear that denying safe havens is simply not enough. Therefore, those charged with combatting terror around the world must be able to evolve with the dynamic and evolving threat landscape. This legislation requires the relevant governmental agencies to produce an integrated strategy to keep terrorists off the battlefield by drying up the unstable, fertile ground from which they recruit—a process I call ‘deny and dry.’ This bill will also proactively prioritize the resources necessary to eradicate terror hot spots and ensure we accomplish our goal of a more peaceful and stable world,” said Rep. McCaul, Chair of the Committee on Homeland Security. “Around the world, instability in the form of conflict, famine, or disease sends millions of people fleeing from their homes annually. We are in the midst of an unprecedented global refugee crisis, with nations across the globe grappling with how to respond. The United States has a proud history of leading the international community in helping others during times of strife—however it is essential that our bodies of government that carry out these missions coordinate with one another. This legislation represents a significant first step in bringing the defense, diplomatic, and development communities of the United States to the same table, working to help answer the challenges of poverty and violence overseas,” said Rep. Smith, Ranking Member of the Committee on Armed Services. “Instability breeds insecurity, and the more instability there is in the world, the longer we will continue to see extremism take hold in communities,” said Rep. Keating, Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade and Co-Chair of the Congressional Counterterrorism Caucus. “Based on everything we’ve learned over the decades we’ve been combatting terrorism, assisting countries struggling with instability is our greatest opportunity to eliminate the threat of violence. This bill is a critical first step in building a strategy to tackle this challenge more effectively through long-term investments to strengthen and secure communities, helping countries become more resilient to extremism.” Violence and violent conflict have become the leading causes of displacement worldwide, resulting in an unprecedented 66 million forcibly displaced people, while preventable violence kills at least 1.4 million people annually. Containing violence costs the global economy $14.3 trillion a year (13.4 percent of world GDP). US National Security Strategies over the past 15 years affirm that America has a national-security interest in better preventing and mitigating violence, violent conflict, and fragility. Lessons learned over the past 20 years show that doing so will require more clearly defined goals, strategies, and interagency coordination. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act would charge USAID and the State and Defense Departments with designating 10 pilot countries from several regions of the world and implementing 10-year plans for addressing violence and fragility in those countries. The bill requires these agencies and departments to apply lessons learned and robust standards for measuring effectiveness and to adapt their efforts based on results. It also requires a mid-term evaluation by the Government Accountability Office, to provide an outside perspective on additional areas of improvement. The following organizations have endorsed this legislation: Alliance for Peacebuilding, American Friends Service Committee, CARE, Carl Wilkens Fellowship, Center for Civilians in Conflict, Center on Conscience & War, Charity & Security Network, Chemonics, Church of the Brethren, Office of Public Witness, Conference of Major Superiors of Men, Congregation of Our Lady of Charity of the Good Shepherd, US Provinces, Cure Violence, Educators Institute for Human Rights, Friends Committee on National Legislation, Global Communities, Humanity United Action, i-ACT, International Alert, International Crisis Group, International Rescue Committee, Jewish World Watch, Karuna Center for Peacebuilding, Mercy Corps, National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, National Latino Evangelical Coalition, Pax Christi International, Pax Christi USA, Peace Direct, PRBB Foundation, SaferWorld, Search for Common Ground, STAND: Student-Led Movement to End Mass Atrocities, Stop Genocide Now, World Relief, World Vision.
3.8.2018	WASHINGTON – Representatives Adam Smith (Wash.) and Chris Smith (N.J.), along with U.S. Senators Roy Blunt (Mo.) and Mazie K. Hirono (Hawaii), today introduced the bipartisan Adoptee Citizenship Act of 2018. The legislation would close a loophole in the Child Citizenship Act of 2000 (CCA), which has prevented internationally-adopted children, who are now adults, from receiving U.S. citizenship despite being raised by American parents. “I am proud to introduce the Adoptee Citizenship Act of 2018 with a bicameral and bipartisan group of my colleagues,” said Adam Smith. “Closing the existing loopholes in the Child Citizenship Act will ensure international adoptees are treated equally under U.S. law. This bill will positively impact thousands of Americans, by granting citizenship they should have had in the first place and fostering stability in their lives and communities. I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance this important legislation.” “I have been working in adoption my entire career and I know that significant obstacles still persist in the daily lives of those who don’t benefit from the Child Citizenship Act purely because of their age, despite their having been legally adopted by U.S. citizens and raised in the United States,” said Chris Smith. “This important law will fix those obstacles for many residents here who meet its standards and who should be granted citizenship.” “The Child Citizenship Act left thousands of internationally-adopted children, who are now adults, in an untenable position, facing everything from difficulty applying for a passport to possible deportation,” said Blunt. “These men and women were raised by American parents in the United States, and should have the same rights provided to other adoptees under the CCA. By fixing current law to meet the original goal of the CCA, we will help ensure these individuals have the security, stability, and opportunity their parents intended for them when they welcomed them into their families.” “International adoptees who were adopted by American parents and raised as Americans should have the same rights of citizenship as biological children,” said Hirono. “I’m proud to work with Senator Blunt to close the loophole in the Child Citizenship Act and right this wrong.” The CCA guarantees citizenship to most international adoptees, but the law only applies to adoptees who were under the age of 18 when the law took effect on February 27, 2001. The loophole denies citizenship to adoptees who were age 18 or over in February 2001, even though they were legally adopted as children by U.S. citizens and raised in the United States. The legislation introduced today fixes this problem by granting international adoptees citizenship unless they have been found guilty of a violent crime and have been deported. Without citizenship, these international adoptees face many barriers, such as having trouble applying for a passport, license, or student financial aid. In some cases, they have been deported to the country in which they were born, where they may have no known family and little chance of succeeding. In addition to the broad, bipartisan congressional support for the Adoptee Citizenship Act, the bill has garnered widespread praise among the nation’s leading adoption advocacy organizations. “The ACA of 2018 aims to implement automatic citizenship to internationally adopted individuals who from the time of adoption into American families, have lived without citizenship privileges and remain unprotected without the benefits intended by US Adoption Law,” said Raana Stiefel and Joy Alessi, Co-Directors, Adoptee Rights Campaign. “Passing the ACA 2018 will establish equality among adoptees and their adoptive families, prevent deportation, and promote economic stability. Adoptees will gain access to healthcare, educational, and retirement benefits. Citizenship recognition will also foster emotional healing for transracial adoptees who despite their American families, are not accepted by society as Americans. We thank our co-sponsors for their ongoing efforts to secure the basic right of citizenship to all intercountry adoptees of US citizen parents and the assurance of family permanency.” “The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute is thrilled this legislative fix introduced by congressional champions for vulnerable children offers a long-needed solution to adoptees whose adoptive parents did not know they needed to take additional steps to seek U.S. citizenship for their children after their adoption finalizations,” said Becky Weichhand, Executive Director, Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute. “This correction reflects the powerful American legal precedent of treating children who are adopted as equal to biological children. The adoption community is grateful to Senators Blunt and Hirono, and Congressmen Adam Smith and Chris Smith, for their leadership in understanding and addressing this problem for adoptees. “35,000 international adoptee children of American parents have lived without their U.S. citizenship for too long due to a glitch in a law that was intended to help them,” said Pankit J. Doshi, President, National Asian Pacific American Bar Association. “Congress now has a chance to correct this oversight and change lives. We thank Senator Blunt, Senator Hirono, Congressman Adam Smith and Congressman Chris Smith for their leadership and commitment to these adoptees. We urge all Member of Congress to support the Adoptee Citizenship Act of 2018.” “As part of our mission and vision, National Council For Adoption supports U.S. citizenship for all individuals legally adopted by U.S. citizens,” said Chuck Johnson, President and CEO, National Council For Adoption. “The Adoptee Citizenship Act of 2018 takes strides to recognize citizenship to the many adopted individuals not covered by the Citizenship Act of 2000 due to their birthdate or visa type. We thank the bill’s co-sponsors for introducing this legislation, and we urge Congress to grant internationally adopted children and adults the same citizenship rights as any child born to U.S. citizens.”
2.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith, Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Effective Foreign Assistance, and fellow Co-Chair Congressman Ted Yoho (R-FL) have introduced H.R. 5105 – the Better Utilization of Investments Leading to Development (BUILD) Act of 2018. Senators Chris Coons (D-DE) and Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker (R-TN) have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Congressman Smith had these comments following introduction yesterday: “The United States has a proud history of leading the international community in helping others during times of conflict, strife, and instability – times when people are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. Since World War II, the United States has invested and supported economic growth in countries all around the world to ensure that people have the opportunity to live healthy lives and achieve their fullest potential. Through our partnerships with friends and allies, we work to raise up local communities – strengthening institutions, combating hunger and disease, and ensuring that development projects have sustainable, long lasting impacts. “This legislation will strengthen the ability of the United States to promote critically needed projects in low- and lower-middle income nations. It streamlines authorities from other agencies into one central institution. U.S. diplomats and development officers working overseas will have one-stop-shop access to a suite of tools to help empower local communities, bringing technical assistance and partnerships to tackle their biggest humanitarian and development challenges. “To be clear – this initiative does not represent a shift away from grant-based direct assistance. Our commitment to providing help to those most in need remains unwavering. Investments in foreign assistance are a critical component of our overall national security, and I will continue to fight for these essential programs. The United States is uniquely positioned to help promote peace and stability, and the new International Development Finance Corporation (IDFC) will be at the forefront of helping nations transition into active participants in global markets.”
2.9.2018	“I could have supported most, if not all, of the funding in this bill but for the fact that just two months ago, we cut taxes by $2 trillion dollars. This legislation is like quitting your job and only then deciding that you want to buy a new house and a second car. I am supportive of spending the money necessary to meet our country’s needs. I am not in favor of continuing to borrow it; I want to raise the revenue necessary. For this reason, I not only opposed the tax cut we passed in December, but I have also long insisted that we need to increase revenue to fund the priorities that are included in this bill. “For the most part, the priorities contained in this legislation, such as disaster relief and modernizing infrastructure, are very important. While the defense spending it provides is higher than I would have preferred, we need to increase defense spending given the wars we’re fighting and the readiness crisis our military is facing. “As a country, we have to be prepared to pay for the critical programs we need instead of putting them all on a credit card and sticking future generations with the bill. Ten years from now--even twenty years from now--I have no doubt that we will face national security threats, have disasters, and need to invest in infrastructure and health care. Where will the money come from when we are 25 or 30 trillion dollars in debt? We have to be fiscally responsible both in the way we spend and generate revenue. This legislation, combined with the recently passed tax cuts and all of the other tax cuts we’ve enacted in the last seventeen years, simply does not meet that test and puts us further down a fiscally irresponsible path that I cannot support. “The other problem with this bill is that it does not address DACA or take action to help DREAMers. DACA remains a very important and deeply frustrating issue for me. Eighty percent of the country supports the DREAMers and enacting a clean fix for DACA into law. More than a majority of the House has expressed support for solving this crisis, yet Speaker Ryan refuses to allow a vote for the democratic process to play out. Democrats alone cannot force him to do that. Instead, we have to look for leverage to compel him to do what he should. Unfortunately, we are limited in our ability to drive the agenda. Even after the Senate did not provide the votes to keep the government open last month, Speaker Ryan still refused to allow a vote on DACA. “I will continue to look for every conceivable point of leverage to push Speaker Ryan and the Republicans to do the right thing on DACA. Ultimately, only the Majority can make that decision. Everyone in the country--in addition to the Democrats in Congress--needs to continue to put pressure on Speaker Ryan to act on clean DACA legislation. I will continue to do my part.”
1.26.2018	Congressman Adam Smith Delivers Weekly Democratic Address Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith of Washington, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, delivered the Weekly Democratic Address. In this week’s address, Smith condemns the Republican Congress’ refusal to govern and inability to pass a budget that meets the needs and values of our country. Video and audio of the Weekly Democratic Address can be downloaded here. Below is a full transcript of the address: “Hello, I’m Adam Smith. I’m the Congressman who represents the 9th District of the state of Washington, and I’m pleased to have the opportunity to give the Democratic message for this week. “I know a lot of people paid close attention to the government shutdown that happened last week and are wondering what it was all about. Why did it happen? And there’s really a very simple explanation. The Republicans who control the House, the Senate and the White House are refusing to govern on the critical issues that face our country. And what they were trying to do last week – and ultimately did do – was pass yet another short-term, stop-gap spending bill. That is not funding the government. “There are so many issues that are not being addressed by this Congress, and what Democrats were trying to do was basically to force the Republicans to do their job. They won the election. They control the House, they control the Senate, they control the White House. It’s time to govern, but they’re not doing it. They’re not passing a budget to begin with. “I’m the Ranking Member in the House Armed Services Committee, and I’ve been privileged to work with the men and women who serve in our military. And we could not be better served, they make us proud every day. But the Congress right now, the Republican-controlled Congress is not serving our military, because it’s not passing a defense budget. A short-term spending bill is not a budget. The leaders of the Pentagon do not know from one week to the next how much money they’re going to have to spend. That makes it impossible to plan and impossible to put us in a position to adequately meet the national security needs of this country. “And it’s not just the Defense Department, it’s the entire budget. Our infrastructure. We have a crumbling infrastructure in this country estimated to have a $600 billion backfill. But again, the Republicans will not pass a transportation budget. “In a short-term spending bill, what they’ve passed now four times since the end of the fiscal year in September, is not a budget. They’re not funding infrastructure, they’re not funding research, they’re not funding education. We are stumbling forward one month at a time, and it goes beyond the budget. “We have had horrible hurricanes last year hit Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. They have not passed the disaster relief that these areas desperately need. Again, simply kicking the can down the road. “And of course, DACA. And we’ve heard a lot about it. The young people who came into this country didn’t make the choice to come into this country. The only country they’ve ever really known is the United States of America. And our government, a couple years ago, gave them legal status in this country – about 800,000 young people. “And then six months ago, President Trump simply took it away. Now at the time, he said he hoped Congress would pass legislation to deal with this, but the Republican Congress again has refused to do it. And again, that’s part of what was trying to be forced last week – to force them to give us a vote. If a vote came up on DACA, on protection for these DREAMers – for these young people – it would pass overwhelmingly in the House and the Senate. But the Republicans refuse to even give us a vote. “The only thing that the Republicans have done since they took over Congress and the White House last year, is pass a massive tax cut for the wealthiest among us and for corporations. Two groups of people that have had more than enough benefits in the last couple of decades. That tax cut even comes at the expense, in some cases, of middle class people. “What Democrats want is – we want an economy that builds from the middle out. That working people in the middle class can benefit from. “Now, you’ve seen all the signs that our economy is booming. Unfortunately, about 90 to 95 percent of that benefit is going to about 5 or 10 percent of the country. “We need to pass a budget to fix health care, to deal with disaster relief to deal with all of these issues if we’re going to actually take care of the middle class and the working people of this country – and that is what the Republicans have refused to do. “Now regrettably we found out last week that even when Democrats said, ‘Look, we’re not going to vote for another short-term spending bill that continues to put us down this path of uncertainty, that doesn’t fund our priorities, that doesn’t pass the bills that we need to pass, that doesn’t govern our country the way it’s supposed to.’ “Even when faced with that, the Republicans said, ‘We don’t care. We’re still not going to do it. We’re not going to pass a budget, we’re not going to pass disaster relief, we’re not going to fix DACA, we’re not going to fix infrastructure, we’re not going to fix our health care plan.’ “So we hope that that will change. This latest stop-gap goes to February 8th, we’ll see what happens then. “But the problem we have in this country right now is the Republicans who control the House, the Senate and the White House, flat out refuse to govern. They refuse to fix our health care system, they refuse to pass a budget, they refuse to take care of disaster relief. It is time we hold them accountable. “And we can’t do it alone in Congress. So, I ask you, the American people to stand up and tell the Republicans to govern. “We don’t need more short-term spending bills, we need a budget and we need a Congress and a White House that actually governs and leads this country.” # # #
1.16.2018	Congressman Smith Joins Congressman Doyle and Colleagues in Announcing Legislation to Save Net Neutrality Washington, DC – January 16, 2018 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today the names of the Members of Congress who have asked to cosponsor his legislation to reject the FCC’s order to end the Open Internet and eliminate Net Neutrality. “We’ve made good progress so far in getting Members to sign on as original cosponsors of our bill to restore Net Neutrality, and I will continue to seek additional cosponsors in the weeks ahead,” Congressman Doyle said today in releasing the list of names. “There’s overwhelming public support for preserving Net Neutrality, so it’s no surprise that there’s strong support in Congress as well. I’m confident that if there’s enough public pressure, Congress will overturn the FCC’s order killing net neutrality.” On December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted along party lines to reverse the Open Internet Order, which regulated Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in order to ensure net neutrality. Later that day, Congressman Doyle announced that he would introduce legislation in the House to overrule the FCC’s action, and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) announced that he would do the same in the Senate. Under the Congressional Review Act, members of the House and Senate can offer a joint resolution of disapproval on any regulation recently issued by a federal agency. Such legislation can’t be introduced, however, before the regulation is “received by Congress.” “Senator Markey announced today that they have 50 cosponsors in the Senate, and we hope to mirror their efforts in the House,” Congressman Doyle added. “The threat posed by the FCC’s actions to overturn Net Neutrality endangers free speech, democracy and a growing internet economy,” said Representative Adam Smith (WA-09). “I am proud to support a legislative fix to the FCC’s unjust ruling.” As of today, the following Members of the US House of Representatives have agreed to cosponsor Congressman Doyle’s legislation to save Net Neutrality: Don S. Beyer, Jr. (VA-08) Sanford Bishop (GA-02) Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) Madeleine Bordallo (GU-Del) Mike Capuano (MA-07) Andre Carson (IN-07) Kathy Castor (FL-14) David Cicilline (RI-01) Joe Courtney (CT-02) Joe Crowley (NY-14) Danny Davis (IL-07) Susan Davis (CA-53) Peter DeFazio (OR-04) Diana DeGette (CO-01) John Delaney (MD-06) Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) Suzan DelBene (WA-01) Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) Keith Ellison (MN-05) Anna Eshoo (CA-18) Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) Jimmy Gomez (CA-34) Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01) Denny Heck (WA-10) Jared Huffman (CA-02) Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) Joe Kennedy (MA-04) Ro Khanna (CA-17) Ann Kuster (NH-02) James R. Langevin (RI-02) Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander Levin (MI-09) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Stephen Lynch (MA-08) Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Betty McCollum (MN-04) Donald McEachin (VA-04) James P. McGovern (MA-02) Jerry McNerney (CA-09) Doris Matsui (CA-06) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Richard E. Neal (MA-01) Richard Nolan (MN-08) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-Del) Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) Frank Pallone (NJ-06) Nancy Pelosi (CA-12) Collin Peterson (MN-07) Chellee Pingrey (ME-01) Mark Pocan (WI-02) Jared Polis (CO-02) David Price (NC-04) Jamie Raskin (MD-08) Jacky Rosen (NV-03) Tim Ryan (OH-13) John Sarbanes (MD-03) Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) José E. Serrano (NY-15) Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01) Brad Sherman (CA-30) Louise Slaugher (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-09) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Tom Suozzi (NY-03) Mark Takano (CA-41) Mike Thompson (CA-05) Paul Tonko (NY-20) Niki Tsongas (MA-03) Pete Visclosky (IN-01) Tim Walz (MN-01) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) Maxine Waters (CA-43) Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) Peter Welch (VT-AL) John Yarmuth (KY-03)
1.15.2018	As a civil rights icon, Martin Luther King Jr. has inspired millions of people throughout the country. On this day, we honor and celebrate the tireless efforts of Dr. King to pursue a better future for all Americans. Dr. King worked to provide a larger voice for marginalized voices. His work sparked change in the hearts and minds of Americans and sought to achieve economic, racial and social equality for everyone. While we are working towards an equal America, we have not achieved Dr. King's complete dream. For all the progress we have made, we risk falling back if we do not stand up to the new rise in white supremacist bigotry on display most notably in Charlottesville last year, and in far too many other places. We must unequivocally say that a diverse America is a stronger America. We still must undertake fundamental endeavors that will improve the quality of life for Americans. Through community and civic engagement, we can pursue action that will bring forth transformative change. Throughout the year, we should reflect on his work to attain social justice. By the pursuit of change we can make the tenets of Dr. King’s dream a reality for all.
1.11.2018	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Michael Capuano (D-MA) introduced legislation that would speed up the implementation of life-saving positive train control (PTC) technology that could prevent catastrophic human-caused rail accidents. The legislation, the Positive Train Control Implementation and Financing Act (H.R. 4766), comes in response to the December 18, 2017 crash of Amtrak Train 501 in Washington, which killed three passengers. Last week, the National Transportation Safety Board reported that the accident was PTC preventable. “Since Congress first passed legislation to mandate PTC implementation in 2008, some railroads have been diligent in implementing PTC while others have clearly been dragging their feet. Two years ago, Congress granted them more time, pushing the PTC implementation deadline to December 31, 2018. As we approach that deadline, many of the railroads do not appear to be on track to meet the PTC mandate. Enough. No more delays, no more extensions, no more excuses from railroads who have had ten years to implement PTC technology. This legislation requires that PTC be installed by the end of the year, prevents future extensions of this life-saving technology, and provides critical grants for cash-strapped commuter and intercity passenger railroads to implement PTC,” said DeFazio. “Positive Train Control will significantly improve passenger safety and full implementation must be made a priority. This legislation will ensure that PTC is done as quickly as possible and makes resources available to help certain railroads meet this obligation,” said Capuano. Members of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA) and Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), and the entire Washington State Democratic delegation including Representatives Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Denny Heck (D-WA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), and Adam Smith (D-WA), have cosponsored the legislation. The legislation would mandate that December 31, 2018, is the final deadline for implementing PTC and prohibit the U.S. Department of Transportation from granting railroads further extensions of the PTC deadline. To help passenger railroads meet the deadline, the bill includes just over $2.5 billion in grants for intercity and commuter passenger railroads to implement PTC. In response to the recent Amtrak crash in Washington, the legislation would prohibit commuter and intercity passenger railroads from beginning new service on a route unless PTC is fully implemented and operational. It also requires that Amtrak report its progress toward installing PTC on routes that are not owned by Amtrak, but are operated by the railroad, such as the Amtrak Cascades line
1.4.2018	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Smith released the following statement in response to Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s decision to rescind Obama Administration memos, establishing that as long as strict enforcement and regulatory systems and policies remained in place, it would defer action in states like Washington which have legalized adult recreational marijuana use. “The actions taken by Attorney General Sessions to rescind existing protections for citizens complying with lawfully enacted state laws regarding marijuana use across the country represents a flagrant disregard for the will of the majority of Americans. This about-face leaves a vacuum of any substantive federal marijuana policy, and threatens to create a ‘wild west’ of haphazard prosecutions. This shift in policy is completely unacceptable, and is an affront to the 10th Amendment. “We must demand that Washington state residents who abide by state laws are protected from blanket federal enforcement. It is essential that Congress now provide certainty on this issue. We must move swiftly to codify the ban on dollars being spent by federal law enforcement to prosecute individuals legally participating in marijuana use or business in accordance with respective state laws. We have a responsibility to strengthen guidance to U.S. Attorneys on prosecution of marijuana cases and enact clear guidelines to financial institutions on providing banking services to legal marijuana businesses.”
12.22.2017	“The Republicans’ final tax bill affirmed my opposition to this dangerous proposal. Today’s vote increased the deficit by a staggering $1.5 trillion, which overwhelmingly benefits the rich and corporations at a time when we are running historic deficits and wealth is concentrated at the top. This bill was so partisan and poorly constructed, and the process so lacking, that Senate parliamentary rules required provisions to be dropped at the last minute, which required the House to vote on the bill twice. This measure endangers Medicare and other mandatory programs, leaving them susceptible to drastic cuts that will hurt ordinary Americans. It will throw our health care system into chaos and even harms our environment by opening up the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge up for oil drilling. This bill set our government on an extremely irresponsible path and its negative effects will be felt by generations to come.”
12.22.2017	“The Republicans just reneged on their responsibility to properly fund the federal government because they were too busy giving away a $1.5 trillion dollar tax cut to corporations and the wealthy. By falling back on another short-term continuing resolution, almost a quarter of year past the due date for proper appropriations bills, they have clearly demonstrated that they are not willing to do their job. Their lack of action will directly and negatively affect the people who reside in the Ninth Congressional District and across the country. House Republicans cannot continue to punt their responsibilities. We must do the job that we have been elected to do; particularly enacting a comprehensive budget that fairly funds important priorities, such as education, job growth, protection of the environment, and our national security. We also need to bring up the legislation necessary to ensure DREAMers can remain at home in this country, and not live in fear of their families being pulled apart. Inaction on these vital issues is unacceptable.”
12.15.2017	“As Republicans in Congress continue to push their reckless tax cuts, they put at risk crucial agencies and programs, such as the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), military pensions, and Medicare. In addition to massively benefiting the wealthy and corporations, as well as reducing revenue by more than a trillion dollars, the tax bill endangers important mandatory spending priorities on which middle class and working Americans rely. “In 2010, to help reign in deficit spending, Congress passed what is known as a PAYGO law, requiring that the legislation enacted during a session of Congress not increase the deficit under threat of automatic cuts. Because of its imbalance, the Republican tax bill risks triggering these automatic and across-the-board PAYGO cuts to critical mandatory spending programs. In a strikingly disingenuous statement, the Senate Majority Leader and Speaker of the House have asserted that the PAYGO cuts to mandatory programs that will be triggered by their tax bill ‘will not happen’ for some unspecified and seemingly miraculous reason. Either Republicans have a way to skirt the law that they haven’t shared, or their tax bill is going to trigger the automatic cuts. Both scenarios are terrible for the middle class. “Empty rhetoric is not enough, and Republicans’ irresponsible disregard for the consequences of their actions is dangerous. I continue to oppose the Republican tax bill and the damage it will inflict on the future of our economy and our country.”
12.6.2017	“The Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act is a dangerous bill that would supersede concealed carry laws in states across the country. In a stark departure from current reciprocity standards, this legislation will force states with strict concealed carry laws to recognize the lowest common denominator. As written, this bill would allow citizens from some states to carry firearms nearly unrestricted in any state in the country, while only requiring a driver’s license. With gun violence on the rise in America, the act of Congress injecting more firearms into public spaces, while weakening both state and federal statutes, is irresponsible. “Unfortunately, Republicans have chosen to include language in this bill that makes marginal improvements to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). While changes to NICS reporting standards are needed, these benefits do not outweigh the danger posed by the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act. We need to be working together to enact sensible firearm safety reforms, including universal background checks on all purchases as well as bolstering our mental health care across the country. This is a step in the wrong direction.”
12.6.2017	“Since its formation in 1948, the nation of Israel has been under near constant threat. I strongly support Israel, and have advocated for robust U.S. engagement to help ensure their security. It is critical that we continue to press for a comprehensive two-state agreement that creates durable states for both the Israeli and Palestinian people. Long-term peace is a goal that has long eluded all parties, however it is critical that we not lose sight. “The President’s decision today to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel will not help advance this goal, and will only serve to increase regional instability. Ultimately the U.S. gains nothing from this announcement, and this Administration has chosen to further isolate itself from our global allies. There is no reason that the President could not choose to sign an additional waiver preventing the U.S. Embassy’s move to Jerusalem, and the damage this does to any ongoing negotiations will be significant.”
11.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement on passage of the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report: “This week, the House of Representatives voted to approve the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report. This legislation establishes the policies of the Department of Defense that impact our service members, their families, and our local communities. “During the conference process and debate, in my role as Ranking Member, I made sure that a number of important policy provisions remained in the legislation. In addition to supporting members of our Armed Forces and their families, the bill includes important provisions supporting investments in education, public health, workforce development, and prioritizes environmental cleanup. Additionally, the bill secured $190.9 million in funding for construction projects in Washington State that will help create both civilian and military jobs throughout our region. I fought back against efforts to include discriminatory language and ensured critical funding continues to support life-saving medical research. I will continue to advocate for a comprehensive policy that addresses our national security and economic challenges.” Congressman Smith fought for numerous provisions in the FY18 NDAA Conference Report, such as: Environment: Establishes that it is policy of the United States Congress to acknowledge climate change and the impact it continues to have on our national security. Authorizes $755.6 million for environmental cleanup of the Hanford Nuclear Site. Education: Provides record funding for Impact Aid schools by increasing funding by $50 million to support military connected school districts, including many in Washington State. Immigration: Directs the Secretary of Defense to ensure legal permanent residents serving in the military are informed of the availability of naturalization through their military service. Military Health: Directs DOD to study safe opioid prescribing practices for those currently serving in the Armed Forces. Blocked earlier attempts to discriminate against transgender service members that would have limited their ability to receive health care. Successfully fought to maintain funding to conduct medical research on diseases that contribute to military readiness, such as breast cancer and traumatic brain injury. Diversity in the Military: Recognizes the important contributions of Historically Black Colleges and Universities by increasing funding by $12 million to help educate and train the next generation of scientists and engineers. Military Spouses: Extends survivor benefits for military widows and widowers by permanently extending the Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance. Nuclear Proliferation: Requires a report from the Secretary of Defense on how DOD is responding to and reducing the threat of nuclear proliferation. Requires a plan to reduce risk of accidental war and encourages dialogue with Russia, China, and North Korea. Washington State projects include: $44.4 million for construction of a project to ensure the safety, accuracy, and efficient storage of munitions required to support ships homeported in Washington State. $19.5 million for a new fire station at the Yakima Training Center to provide fire protection and emergency response for base facilities, fires on the training ranges, and local communities in the region. $30.0 million for a new Army Reserve Center at Joint Base Lewis-McChord. $31.0 million for a new National Guard Readiness Center in Tumwater to replace an outdated facility constructed in 1939 and provide administrative, training, and storage areas for Washington National Guard units.
11.15.2017	Washington, D.C. - On the one-month anniversary of the October 14th terror attack on Mogadishu, Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) joined Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) and Rep. Tom Emmer (R-MN), along with Reps. Steve Stivers (R-OH), Karen Bass (D-CA), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), and Denny Heck (D-WA) in introducing House Resolution 620 condemning the attack that killed more than 350 people, including three American citizens, and injured another 200—making it the single deadliest in Somalia’s history. “It’s been a month since the terrible and cowardly attack on Mogadishu, and my heart still breaks for the people of Somalia and their families and friends here in the United States,” Congressman Ellison said. “The people of Somalia have shown incredible resilience— coming together not only as part of an inspiring effort to recover from this attack, but also to rebuild their nation in the spirit of peace and prosperity. I am proud to stand with my colleagues to express solidarity with the people of Somalia by strongly condemning the senseless violence, extending our condolences to all those affected by the attack, and reaffirming continued U.S. support for Somalia.” “Just over one month ago, Mogadishu was the site of a horrific and cowardly bombing that claimed the lives of hundreds of innocent civilians. In response, I have joined with my colleagues on a resolution condemning this tragedy, expressing sympathy for the victims and their families, and reaffirming our support for the nation of Somalia,” Congressman Smith said. “Together with our international partners, the United States must redouble our commitment to help the Somali people rebuild after this horrific tragedy. I continue to stand in solidarity with the Somali community in my district and around the world in support of efforts to ensure peace, security, and prosperity for the Somali people.” The full text of the resolution reads as follows: “Strongly condemning the terrorist attack in Mogadishu, Somalia on October 14, 2017, and expressing condolences and sympathies to the victims of the attack and their families. Whereas on October 14, 2017, a truck bomb filled with military grade and homemade explosives detonated at a busy intersection in the center of Mogadishu, Somalia, and took the lives of more than 350 people and injured more than 200 additional people; Whereas at least three Americans, Ahmed AbdiKarin Eyow, Mohamoud Elmi, and Abukar Dahie, were killed in the attack; Whereas the Somali Government believes that Al-Shabaab was responsible for the attack, although no official claims of responsibility have yet been made; Whereas Al-Shabaab has previously avoided claiming responsibility for Al Shabaab operations when it believes the operation may significantly damage its public image among Somalis; Whereas the Department of State condemned ‘‘in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks that killed and injured hundreds in Mogadishu on October 14’’; Whereas the Department of State stated that ‘‘the United States will continue to stand with the Somali government, its people, and our international allies to combat terrorism and support their efforts to achieve peace, security, and prosperity’’; Whereas according to the Department of State’s Country Report on Terrorism for 2016, Al-Shabaab is the most potent threat to regional stability in East Africa; Whereas the United States continues to support counterterrorism efforts in coordination with the Government of Somalia, international partners, and the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) mainly through capacity building programs, advise and assist missions, and intelligence support; Whereas Somalia’s president, Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, declared three days of national mourning in response to the attack; Whereas the vibrant, bustling district of Mogadishu where the attack occurred is characteristic of the city’s revitalization, and the solidarity and efforts by the city’s residents to rebuild already are a testament to their resilience; and Whereas Somalia has been a strong partner to the United States: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives—? (1) strongly condemns the terrorist attack in Mogadishu, Somalia on October 14, 2017;? (2) expresses its heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathies for the victims of the attack and their families;? (3) honors the memories of Ahmed AbdiKarin Eyow, Mohamoud Elmi, and Abukar Dahie, who were murdered in the horrific terrorist attack; (4) recognizes the significant efforts to combat terrorism by the Government of Somalia, the countries contributing troops to the African Union Mission in Somalia, and United States forces in Somalia; (5) reaffirms United States support for the Government of Somalia’s efforts to achieve peace, security, and prosperity and combat terrorism in Somalia; and (6) renews the solidarity of the people and Government of the United States with the people and Government of Somalia.”
11.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) introduced H.R. 4415, a bill that would make it the policy of the United States not to use nuclear weapons first. Smith released the following statement about the bill: “The United States should not use nuclear arms in a first strike. They are instruments of deterrence, and they should be treated as such. A declaratory policy of not using nuclear weapons first will increase strategic stability, particularly in a crisis, reducing the risk of miscalculation that could lead to an unintended all-out nuclear war. Paired with our reliable, survivable, assured nuclear deterrent, which is second to none, we retain nuclear forces that would inflict devastating retaliation against any nuclear attack against the United States or its allies." “We have prevented the use of nuclear weapons in war for 72 years. We must continue working to ensure they will not be employed by taking steps to increase strategic stability, stem the incentives for nuclear proliferation and reduce the likelihood that these weapons will be used irresponsibly in a conflict."
11.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Adam Smith (D-WA09) and Ted Yoho (R-FL03), co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus for Effective Foreign Assistance, led 67 of their colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney calling for open dialogue on the proposed changes to the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Agency for International Development: “Any redesign of U.S. foreign assistance programs must be done in a transparent manner and in consultation with the development community and with Congress.” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Public engagement during this critical juncture is necessary in order to improve the overall effectiveness of foreign assistance and bring further stability to the world.” “In these financially restrictive times, as the United States re-evaluates our foreign assistance programs Congress must remain involved and work with the Administration to create the most efficient and effective programs possible,” said Congressman Ted Yoho. “By doing so, we can lay out specific goals to transition countries from aid to trade as rapidly as possible for maximum effect.” “Strong bipartisan Congressional support for foreign assistance programs is a key element of the United States’ global leadership. Over the last 15 years, Congress has worked with Republican and Democratic administrations to improve U.S. foreign assistance with powerful results, such as the Global Food Security Act and the Foreign Assistance Transparency and Accountability Act,” wrote the Members of Congress. “Given Congress’ role as the sole body in the authorizing and budgetary processes, we believe that any effort to enact reforms without a strong partnership between Congress and the Administration will not be sustainable.” Read the full text of the letter here. The letter was co-signed by Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI04), Thomas Garrett (R-VA05), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA07), Dwight Evans (D-PA02), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI01), James McGovern (D-MA02), Shea-Porter (D-NH01), Ted Lieu (D-CA33), Ami Bera (D-CA07), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA47), Frank Pallone (D-NJ06), Austin Scott (R-GA08), Mark Pocan (D-WI02), Keith Ellison (D-MN05), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR03), Gene Green (D-TX29), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH09), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL16), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA08), Tom Emmer (R-MN06), Bobby Rush (D-IL01), Dennis Ross (R-FL15), Karen Bass (D-CA37), Julia Brownley (D-CA26), Salud Carbajal (D-CA24), Steve Cohen (D-TN09), Jim Cooper (D-TN05), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX30), Derek Kilmer (D-WA06), Albio Sires (D-NJ08), Ted Poe (R-TX02), Michael McCaul (R-TX10), Anthony Brown (D-MD04), Steve Chabot (R-OH01), David Cicilline (D-RI01), Peter DeFazio (D-OR04), Debbie Dingell (D-MI12), Anna Eshoo (D-CA18), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ03), Denny Heck (D-WA10), John Katko (R-NY24), Ro Khanna (D-CA17), Jim Langevin (D-RI02), Barbara Lee (D-CA13), Sander Levin (D-MI09), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA19), Betty McCollum (D-MN04), Stephanie Murphy (D-FL07), Scott Perry (R-PA04), Jared Polis (D-CO02), David Price (D-NC04), Jacky Rosen (D-NV03), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA40), David Scott (D-GA13), Lee Zeldin (R-NY01), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR01), Susan Davis (D-CA53), Ted Deutch (D-FL22), Lois Frankel (D-FL21), John Yarmuth (D-KY03), Chris Stewart (R-UT02), Rick Larsen (D-WA02), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA20), Tim Walz (D-MN01), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL23), Joe Wilson (R-SC02), Adam Schiff (D-CA28). The following organizations support the call for transparency and coordination: InterAction, Modernizing Foreign Assistance Network, Alliance for Peacebuilding , CARE USA , Basic Education Coalition, RESULTS, Islamic Relief USA, Global Health Council, Action Against Hunger, Save the Children, Advocates for Youth, World Vision, Malaria No More, Fund for Global Health, Heartland Alliance, Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, Friends of the Global Fight Against AIDS, TB and Malaria, PATH, Global Citizen, The Hunger Project, Elizabeth R Griffin Research Foundation, IntraHealth International, One Earth Future, Noncommunicable Disease (NCD) Roundtable, Lutheran World Relief, American Heart Association, American Stroke Association, WaterAid, Global Communities, Catholic Relief Services, Refugees International, ONE Campaign.
11.14.2017	“Last night, the House of Representatives voted on H.Res. 599, which expressed concern over the ongoing conflict between the coalition of nations led by Saudi Arabia and the Houthis in Yemen. I voted against H.Res. 599. I believe the resolution did not go far enough to articulate Saudi Arabia’s role in creating and perpetuating the ongoing humanitarian crisis. Instead, the resolution placed a disproportionate level of blame on Iran. Iran remains a detriment to peace and stability in Yemen, however, Saudi Arabia should also be held accountable for their actions. “It is critical that the United States not choose sides in this war. I fear that our historical relationship with Saudi Arabia has resulted in de facto support for the conflict. Understanding that this resolution was a compromise with Republicans in the House, the lack of any enforceable provision removing U.S. support was reason to vote against it. While I do believe that Saudi Arabia is an important ally in the Middle East, the fact is that the people of Yemen currently face a fractured civil infrastructure that has led to what could be the world’s largest Cholera outbreak in history – on top of blockaded ports that have stymied the flow of humanitarian supplies. “Something must change. I am a cosponsor of H.Con.Res. 81, a War Powers resolution introduced by Representative Ro Khanna that would help stop the United States from endorsing what is a nearly intractable conflict. Congress has a critical role to play, and any American involvement can and must be debated transparently. Ultimately, we must find a way to help bring about a peaceful conclusion to this conflict, and that invests heavily in humanitarian assistance for the Yemeni people – including rebuilding their nation after this debilitating period.”
11.11.2017	“On Veterans Day, we honor the men and women that served, and those who continue to serve, our country. In recognition of their sacrifice, we owe our service members our deepest gratitude. “As the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) I am honored to work with and represent the brave men and women who have donned the uniform to represent the United States of America. One of my top priorities in Congress is to ensure that we take care of our military, as well as our veterans. We should be doing everything possible to ensure that members of our military come home to quality jobs, educational opportunities and receive the health care services that they deserve. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that we fulfill our commitments to our service members, their families, and our veterans. Today, and every day, we honor the courage and selfless service of our veterans.”
11.9.2017	“Our country’s federal government is already massively in debt and cannot sustain the tax cut President Trump and the Republicans are proposing. It is both bad economic and fiscal policy to be debating a $1.5 trillion tax bill at a time when we are already $20 trillion in debt and running deficits of nearly $700 billion. With deficits already projected to rise for the foreseeable future, this bill will have devastating impacts on our national debt and the priorities that the constituents of my district have made clear they support. We need to be able to invest in our education system, repair highways and bridges, support healthy children and families, advance scientific innovations and research, and provide for homeland security and our national defense. “History has shown that cutting taxes does not increase revenues or grow the economy. We raised taxes in the early 1990’s, and the country experienced strong economic growth. In contrast, we slashed taxes in the early 2000’s which led to ten years of sluggish economic progress, a ballooning debt, and diminished investment in the economy. Drastic cuts like the one we will be voting on in the coming days will cause serious risks to the future health of our economy.”
11.7.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement about the mishandling of criminal history data for the mass shooting perpetrator in Sutherland Springs, Texas: “It is unbelievably devastating to hear that multiple data entry errors by the Air Force allowed someone who should have been prohibited from purchasing a firearm to buy one, and use it to kill at least 26 people. This tragedy should not have happened and these processes need to be fixed. “These facts only reinforce the need to improve background check databases such as NICS, and expand who must receive such checks before obtaining a firearm. Systems like this can help stop horrific acts like what happened in Texas before they occur, but only when supplied with appropriate information.”
11.2.2017	“The Republican tax plan released today is disastrous for American workers and middle class families. Instead of having an honest discussion about our federal budget, House Republicans are attempting to force a partisan bill that will hurt millions of middle class Americans, only to give tax cuts to corporations and the wealthiest among us. This tax plan illustrates how far out of touch the Republicans are with the needs of the American people. “Republican’s overly optimistic claims are deeply disingenuous. Their plan will cost Americans $1.5 trillion, or more, and is only partially paid for by eliminating credits and deductions that working and middle class Americans rely on to make ends meet. The cuts in this bill, and the debt increases that they will exacerbate, will not help families or spur job creation. With federal revenues already significantly reduced by the Bush-era tax cuts, this misguided tax plan will further constrain our ability to grow the economy for everyone. To cut taxes for those that do not need it, following trillions of dollars of tax breaks over the past decade and a half, continues to take us in the wrong direction.”
10.31.2017	bating a new nuclear arms race.” Numerous national security officials have pointed out the need for an accurate long-term cost assessment of U.S. nuclear modernization plans: "Starting in 2021, between 2021 and 2035, it's about $18 billion a year to reconstitute and recapitalize our strategic nuclear deterrent … If that comes out of our conventional forces that will be very, very, very problematic for us. … So, rather than talk about the bow wave, there is future fiscal risk that the country, Congress and future administrations and this administration must come to grips with … Because as soon as we have a better understanding of that, we'll know for sure that our defense strategy is on the right track." - Deputy Secretary of Defense Bob Work, February 9, 2016 “We do have a problem in the budget, and that problem is called the recapitalization of the triad.” - Frank Kendall III, Undersecretary of Defense For Acquisition, Technology And Logistics, December 2, 2015 “After the end of that period, as we start to actually produce the systems I talked about, we're going to have an affordability problem that we have to deal with … In 2021, we're gonna start to have a problem finding ways to afford these systems. We will work to do that. It's a very high priority and we will work to do that, but it is gonna be a challenge for us.” - Frank Kendall III, Undersecretary of Defense For Acquisition, Technology And Logistics, March 4, 2015 "We're looking at that big bow wave and wondering how the heck we're going to pay for it, and probably thanking our stars we won't be here to have to answer the question.” - Brian McKeon, Principal Deputy Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, October 2015 “I don't know of a good way for us to solve this issue." - Mike McCord, Defense Department Comptroller, November 3, 2015 “This recapitalization will involve substantial outlays over the coming decades, and the merits of some aspects of this expensive recapitalization can be debated. Recapitalization of all three legs of the nuclear Triad with associated weapons could cost between $600 billion and $1 trillion over a thirty year period, the costs of which would likely come at the expense of needed improvements in conventional forces.” - National Defense Panel review of the 2014 Quadrennial Defense Review “Our problems become unmanageable in FY22 when the Ground Based Strategic Deterrent (GBSD) advances … How much should we recapitalize? We want to have a national debate on that." - Lt. Gen James Holmes, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Requirements, February 12, 2016 "The strategic deterrent fund could be moderately useful to the department, but our real issue is not the fund but funding. … The fund may have some authorities or acquisition tools that could come with it that could provide some modest savings, and that would be fine. But the real question is do we have the resources to do that modernization additive to the rest of the requirements of the department, or will we have to squeeze out other high priorities, and those will be the national decisions that have to be made in coming years." - Jamie Morin, Director of the Office of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation (CAPE), March 18, 2016 ### Letter Smith Visclosky CBO.PDF
10.26.2017	“Today’s budget vote is the height of irresponsibility. The resolution passed today is not a legitimate budget. It is the vehicle for reckless tax cuts that will drive up the deficit and overwhelmingly benefit the wealthiest Americans. Tax cuts for the rich will do little to stimulate our economy or help the middle class. Since 2001, the Bush tax cuts have cost us trillions in lost revenue, and produced virtually no economic growth. Another tax cut now will only further jeopardize our economic and national security. Republicans are not sincere about reforming our tax code to help the middle class – their tax framework shows their priority is helping the few at the top. “We have real fiscal issues that need to be addressed. We have skyrocketing debt and insufficient investment in priorities such as education, infrastructure, and nutrition assistance. Crafted without Democratic input, the Republican budget bill is a clear attack on those critical programs that working families, veterans, and seniors rely on. The trillions of dollars of tax cuts Republicans are pushing through Congress will only serve to increase the rampant inequality that is already on the rise in our country.”
10.24.2017	“We are not looking at a ’10 out of 10’ response to Hurricane Maria. Eighty percent of Puerto Rico still doesn’t have electricity, thirty-five percent of people still don’t have water, and people have been forced to get water from Superfund sites. The Army Corps of Engineers has estimated that it needs about 2,000 additional workers to get the lights turned back on, yet there are only about 200 on the ground right now. President Trump finally sent the helicopters Congress asked for, two weeks late, but since then he seems more focused on spinning the media about his response than making sure American citizens are safe and managing a committed reconstruction effort.”
10.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Smith introduced H.R.4087, the Protecting Airport Communities from Particle Emissions Act. Recent studies have indicated that ultrafine particles (UFPs) from a variety of sources could have detrimental impacts on human health. In recognition that communities located near airports could be more likely to be exposed to aviation-related particle pollution, Congressman Smith introduced this legislation to require a national study on ultrafine particles to help direct policy and solutions to improve the quality of life for local communities. The full extent of health impacts resulting from UFPs has not been completely examined. Because of their structure and size, these particles can enter deep into the lungs and find their way into the blood stream. There are many sources that contribute to the rise of UFPs, including congested roadways, industrial emissions, as well as air travel. The health effects that can arise from UFPs include aggravation of heart and lung disease as well as asthma. These damaging health impacts can result in increased hospital admissions. The act will ensure that affected localities across the country, including the communities surrounding Sea-Tac International Airport in Washington state, have access to information about the health risks of UFPs. It will direct the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator to compile existing data from previous research and then conduct an original study on UFP prevalence around the twenty largest airports in the country. This will lead to a better understanding of how nearby communities are exposed to UFPs and the adverse health impacts associated with them. In addition, the study will also evaluate whether biofuel use at airports could contribute to reduced UFP emissions. The bill requires coordination between the FAA, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to study the rates of exposure to UFPs and adverse health impacts that communities of color, economically insecure residents, vulnerable individuals, and other disparately impacted groups experience. A report on the findings of the study is to be submitted to Congress within two years of enactment of the legislation. This study parallels research on airport traffic and air quality currently being conducted at the University of Washington and builds upon the collaborative efforts Congressman Smith has been engaged in with local communities and the Port of Seattle. Communities have the right to know how they are being impacted by ultrafine particulates in the atmosphere, what the sources of these pollutants are, and whether the use of alternative fuels could reduce those impacts. “A comprehensive study of the ultrafine materials that jet fuel pollution emits is necessary to begin to develop practical and effective policies to protect impacted communities,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “The evidence from this national study will serve as the foundation for future work at the local, state and federal level to ensure a better quality of life for those experiencing the negative health impacts from airplane emissions.” “Studying ultrafine particles found in jet fuel pollution is critical to understanding the potential health impacts on airport communities and what can be done to mitigate negative effects,” said Representative Tina Orwall, D-Des Moines. “Washington state recently funded a study of Sea-Tac airport, one of the fastest growing airports in the nation. While I’m proud that we funded this local study being conducted by the University of Washington, I am very grateful for the leadership of Congressman Adam Smith in seeking to have our federal partners study this further.” “The Port of Seattle is pleased to support Representative Smith’s effort to create a federal study on ultrafine particles and their relationship to airport-related activity,” said Port of Seattle Commissioner John Creighton. “Healthy communities depend upon healthy environments. There is a current lack of data and academic studies on ultrafine particulate emissions resulting from aviation activities, and so we welcome this legislation – as well as the study on this topic that the Port is supporting and co-funding at the state level – as an essential step toward deepening our understanding of this important topic.” “My constituents are in need of accurate information regarding the presence of ultrafine particle pollution and the potential health risks such particulates pose to themselves and their families,” said Senator Karen Keiser, D-Des Moines. “I thank Congressman Smith for his advocacy and partnership to ensure we have the information and resources we need to protect our communities adjacent to commercial airports.” “I would like to thank Congressman Smith and all other government partners for listening to my constituents in Federal Way and Des Moines, and for his leadership in Congress on this important issue,” said Representative Mike Pellicciotti, D-Federal Way. The Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus seeks to raise awareness of the impact of aircraft noise, hold the FAA accountable to the concerns of local communities, and find meaningful legislative and administrative solutions to reduce airplane impacts. As a member of the Quiet Skies Caucus, Congressman Smith has convened roundtable discussions with local elected officials, city officials, and Port of Seattle Commissioners to discuss possible solutions for airplane noise and emissions, including ultrafine particles. Air travel is an economic engine for the Puget Sound Region. Congressman Smith is committed to ensuring the Port of Seattle continues to create economic opportunities for local residents, and finding solutions that will diminish the adverse impacts of air travel and improve the quality of life for local communities. The Protecting Airport Communities from Particle Emissions Act has been cosponsored by Representatives Jackie Speier (CA-14), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), and Mike Quigley (IL-05).
10.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement about the release of the Defense Department (DOD)’s new report on its excess infrastructure capacity. This month, the Department of Defense submitted the infrastructure capacity report required by the FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act. The report (attached, with a letter from the Secretary of Defense) shows that, even using a baseline of DOD’s larger 2012 force structure instead of the current structure, the Department of Defense has 19% excess infrastructure capacity. That figure includes 29% excess capacity for the Army and 28% excess capacity for the Air Force. As Secretary of Defense James Mattis writes in his letter accompanying the report, “I must be able to eliminate excess infrastructure in order to shift resources to readiness and modernization.” Ranking Member Smith’s statement is as follows: “This report shows that the case for authorizing a new Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process is extremely strong, even if we plan to substantially increase the size of the military. Even with higher force levels than we have today, 19% of the Defense Department’s infrastructure capacity would be excess to its requirement, including 29% excess capacity for the Army and 28% for excess capacity for the Air Force. That’s a huge amount. We are wasting taxpayer money to maintain buildings and facilities that the military does not need, while we drain away funds for readiness and weaponry that could keep our service members safe and our country secure.” Ranking Member Smith has long been a leading advocate for authorizing a new Base Realignment and Closure process. This year, he introduced the Military Infrastructure Consolidation and Efficiency Act of 2017 (H.R. 753), which would allow the Department of Defense to make targeted reductions to excess infrastructure capacity, while maintaining sufficient capacity to support contingencies and potential force structure growth in the future. The legislation would also make a number of reforms aimed at increasing congressional oversight, emphasizing savings, controlling cost-growth, strengthening the independent commission, and expediting the completion of the recommendations. SecDef Letter to Congress BRAC Report Infrastucture Capacity Report October 2017
10.16.2017	te facilities; repeal mandatory detention; and restore due process, oversight, accountability and transparency to the immigration detention system. “We must fix the injustices in our broken immigration detention system,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “As the Trump administration continues to push a misguided and dangerous immigration agenda, we need to ensure fair treatment and due process for immigrants and refugees faced with detention. This legislation will address some of the worst failings of our immigration policy, and restore integrity and humanity to immigration proceedings.” “The high moral cost of our inhumane immigration detention system is reprehensible. Large, private corporations operating detention centers are profiting off the suffering of men, women and children. We need an overhaul,” said Congresswoman Jayapal. “It’s clear that the Trump administration is dismantling the few protections in place for detained immigrants even as he ramps up enforcement against parents and vulnerable populations. This bill addresses the most egregious problems with our immigration detention system. It’s Congress’ responsibility to step up and pass this bill.” In addition to repealing mandatory detention, a policy that often results in arbitrary and indefinite detention, the legislation creates a meaningful inspection process at detention facilities to ensure they meet the government’s own standards. The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to establish legally enforceable civil detention standards in line with those adopted by the American Bar Association. With disturbing track records of abuse and neglect, DHS has a responsibility to ensure that facilities are held accountable for the humane treatment of those awaiting immigration proceedings. Individuals held in our immigration detention system are subject to civil law, but are often held in conditions identical to prisons. In many cases, detained people are simply awaiting their day in court. To correct the persistent failures of due process, the legislation requires the government to show probable cause to detain people, and implements a special rule for primary caregivers and vulnerable populations, including pregnant women and people with serious medical and mental health issues. “The immigrant detention and prison industrial complex breaks down the mental, emotional, and psychosocial development of our communities in various ways. I saw this firsthand when my family member was detained. I believe the Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act provides transformative provisions that we have been working toward, to move the immigrant rights movement forward,” said Yvette Maganya, a OneAmerica youth leader and the niece of a survivor of the Northwest Detention Center. “I’ve seen the toll detention conditions have in our community. Our communities are being jailed in inhumane conditions with no accountability. Often they are jailed not because of what they did, but to fulfill cruel, arbitrary quotas. It is wrong to jail immigrants indefinitely with no accountability or oversight. This is why we need the Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act.” “We are grateful for the leadership of Representatives Smith and Jayapal in ensuring that the rights and dignity of all peoples are respected. NWIRP supports the ‘Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act of 2017’ that they have introduced and see it as a critical step toward making our immigration detention system more humane and more consistent with fundamental American values,” said Jorge L. Barón of Northwest Immigrant Rights Project. “The Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act is a crucial piece of legislation that introduces a wave of accountability that we desperately need. This officially puts the Federal government on notice that we will no longer tolerate the rampant disregard for human life,” said Victoria Mena of Colectiva Legal del Pueblo. “Today, we’re facing an extremist expansion of our immigration detention system, which makes the Dignity for Detained Immigrants bill even more imperative. We have continually seen the ways in which conditions in the detention center and the traumatic experience of being detained deters people from fighting their cases. We stand in strong support of this important piece of legislation that sets a new, humane vision to reform our flawed immigration detention system,” said Roxana Norouzi of immigrant rights organization OneAmerica. The Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act is cosponsored by 60 members of Congress: John Conyers Jr. (MI-13), John Lewis (GA-5), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Jose Serrano (NY-15), Maxine Waters (CA-43), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D.C.), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-4), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Bobby Rush (IL-1), Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-7), Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), Danny K. Davis (IL-7), James P. McGovern (MA-2), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Jan Schakowsky (IL-9), Betty McCollum (MN-4), Raúl Grijalva (AZ-3), Gwen Moore (WI-4), Steve Cohen (TN-9), Keith Ellison (MN-5), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson Jr. (GA-4), André Carson (IN-7), Chellie Pingree (ME-1), Jared Polis (CO-2), Mike Quigley (IL-5), Judy Chu (CA-27), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Bill Foster (IL-11), David N. Cicilline (RI-1), Suzan DelBene (WA-1), Donald M. Payne Jr. (NJ-10), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1), Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8), Joseph P. Kennedy III (MA-4), Mark Pocan (WI-2), Mark Takano (CA-41), Marc Veasey (TX-33), Katherine Clark (MA-5), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Ruben Gallego (AZ-7), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Kathleen M. Rice (NY-4), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Dwight Evans (PA-2), Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), Jamie Raskin (MD-8), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34). The legislation is also supported by 52 civil society organizations: American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Asian Americans Advancing Justice - AAJC, Asian Pacific Institute on Gender-Based Violence, Capital Area Immigrants' Rights Coalition, Center for Community Change, The Center for Victims of Torture, Church Council of Greater Seattle, Church World Service, Colectiva Legal del Pueblo, Columbia Legal Services, Community Initiatives for Visiting Immigrants in Confinement (CIVIC), DC Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Democracy for America, Detention Watch Network, Entre Hermanos, FIRM, Grassroots Leadership, Human Rights First, Human Rights Watch, Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, Immigrant Legal Resource Center, Immigration Equality Action Fund, Indivisible Vashon, Just Detention International, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, Make the Road CT, Make the Road New York, Make the Road NJ, MoveOn.org Civic Action, National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum (NAPAWF), National Center for Transgender Equality, National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, National Immigrant Justice Center, National Immigration Law Center, National Korean American Service & Education Consortium (NAKASEC), National LGBTQ Task Force Action Fund, National Network to End Domestic Violence, Northwest Immigrant Rights Project, OneAmerica, Our Revolution, Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services (RAICES), South Asian Americans Leading Together (SAALT), Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC), Southern Poverty Law Center, Tacoma Migrant Justice, Tahirih Justice Center, United We Dream, Wallingford Indivisible, Washington Community Action Network, Washington Defender Association, The Washington Immigrant Solidarity Network, Women’s Refugee Commission, 21 Progress, Asian Counseling and Referral Service.
10.13.2017	“I cannot begin to stress how utterly immoral it would be for brave men and women who are currently serving in the U.S. military to be kicked out, and lose their careers, purely because of discrimination,” said Congressman Adam Smith, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “This bipartisan legislation would prevent that kind of mindless discriminatory purge, and it is an important step toward reversing President Trump’s ban on transgender military service. We will continue to fight so that all individuals who are willing and able can volunteer in defense of their country.” “Kicking out members of the United States Armed Services solely based on their gender identity is hateful, discriminatory, and on the wrong side of history,” said Congresswoman Jackie Speier. “News flash, Mr. President—thousands of transgender troops already serve our country with pride and dignity. Our military should be focused on recruiting and retaining the best troops, not on rejecting qualified service members on the basis of discrimination.” “I stood proudly with the previous administration when we lifted the ban on ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’” said Congresswoman Susan Davis. “Many of the arguments against transgender servicemembers are the same we have heard for gay servicemembers, and the same we heard for women before that. Transgender servicemembers have and are serving with honor, distinction, and courage. No evidence has been presented to warrant a ban, which is based solely on discrimination. Our servicemembers should be focused on the singular objective of protecting Americans. This ban will only serve as a disruptive distraction of that effort.” “Congress' intention with the repeal of Don't Ask Don't Tell was to allow our brave servicemembers to openly serve in our armed forces without fear of being discriminated against,” said Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. “The decision by the Administration to not allow transgender individuals to serve in the military is a sad reminder of the dark chapters in our nation's history that should never be repeated. The courts have usually been forced to adjudicate what constitutes discrimination but once again Congress is saying: no more. Any patriot, as long as they are qualified to serve, should have the ability to, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity. These individuals are willing to sacrifice their lives for our freedom, a freedom that they should also be able to enjoy.’ “Any American willing to risk his or her life to protect and serve our country deserves our gratitude and support,” said Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema. “I’m proud to work with this bipartisan, bicameral group of lawmakers, including Arizona’s Senator John McCain, in standing with our military.” Specifically, the legislation would:Express a sense of Congress that individuals who are qualified and can meet the standards to serve in the military should be eligible to serve; Prohibit DoD from involuntarily separating, or denying the reenlistment or continuation in service in the Armed Forces of currently serving transgender service members solely on the basis of the servicemember’s gender identity; and Require Secretary Mattis to complete his review of accession of transgender individuals into the Armed Forces by the end of this year and report the results to Congress.
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – The ranking members of six House committees sent a letter to their Republican counterparts and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan urging them to allow H.R. 3548 – the Republican bill authorizing the costly, destructive expansion of the border wall – to be considered for amendment in each of their respective committees before the bill goes to the full House for consideration. Moving the bill through each committee with jurisdiction, the authors note, would be the only way to pass the bill “through regular order.” The letter, available at (http://bit.ly/2xBvzVQ), is signed by Reps. Adam Smith (D-WA) of the Committee on Armed Services; Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) of the Committee on Natural Resources; Peter DeFazio (D-OR) of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure; Richard Neal (D-MA) of the Committee on Ways and Means; Elijah Cummings (D-MD) of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform; and Eliot Engel (D-NY) of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The authors write in part: As Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson aptly stated, H.R. 3548 is “a misguided, unnecessary, fiscally-irresponsible measure to formally authorize President Trump’s Wall at all costs.” Accordingly, we respectfully request that each Committee mark up this legislation and be given an opportunity to thoroughly examine and discuss provisions within our purview. The non-partisan Office of the House Parliamentarian has ruled that the border wall legislation includes provisions relevant to each of the committees’ jurisdictions.
10.13.2017	“The President of the United States has a responsibility to exercise leadership when it comes to crucial national security issues such as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) with Iran. He should let the facts inform him and bear the burden of making the right decisions to safeguard our country’s interests. Instead, President Trump is abdicating his responsibility and kicking the question to Congress, in what appears to be a cravenly political attempt to have it both ways. That is as juvenile as it is dangerous. “Congress must now act responsibly on this issue. Reneging on our obligations under the JCPOA by snapping back sanctions would seriously harm the national security interest of the United States. It could result in war or a nuclear-armed Iran. It would leave the United States isolated from our allies and partners who continue to support the JCPOA. It would undermine our global diplomatic efforts by sending a signal that the United States does not keep its commitments. And it would further destabilize the Middle East. We cannot afford to trigger any of those outcomes, especially at a time when we are confronting so many other grave national security crises. “As the President’s decision not to decertify based on noncompliance implicitly admits, the Iranian government has not failed to deliver on its obligations under the JCPOA, whose terms are limited to the development of nuclear weapons. We have other methods of countering Iran’s malign activities—such as missile launches and terrorist activity—that fall outside the scope of the agreement. We should apply them vigorously to contain and counter Iranian actions that threaten our national security. But we should not take actions that violate our commitments under the JCPOA when adhering to its terms is the best option available, and when the alternatives would invite disaster.”
10.10.2017	“Dismantling the Clean Power Plan is a direct attack on the health of Americans and the future of our climate. As the very real impacts of climate change continue to devastate vulnerable communities both at home and abroad, the United States cannot ignore our responsibility to defend the environment against the harmful effects of pollution. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has the responsibility to safeguard Americans from the damages of carbon pollution and EPA Administrator Pruitt's actions today make it clear that the Trump Administration is willing to ignore this essential duty and disregard proven science. “With the Administration’s refusal to acknowledge that the health of our planet depends on the actions we take today, we must support the work done in our local communities to reduce pollution and prioritize the transition to clean energy solutions. I am proud of the work being done in Washington state to support and grow a job creating clean energy economy that protects our land, water, and air. As a member of the United for Climate and Environmental Justice Task Force, I am committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to fight this deeply irresponsible and dangerous decision.”
10.6.2017	“Today, in an abhorrent attack on women’s rights the Trump Administration ended the federal requirement for employers to cover birth control. This dangerous decision turns back the clock by enabling employers to discriminate under the guise of religious freedom. The birth control mandate has allowed millions to access affordable contraception and given women autonomy over their reproductive health and futures. Health care must include access to affordable birth control and reproductive services. The Trump Administration’s ideologically-driven decision is a shameful sanctioning of gender discrimination that endangers women’s health.”
10.5.2017	Congress has a responsibility to put forth a budget that expands opportunities for American families to prosper. We must invest in education, affordable health care, rebuilding our collapsing infrastructure, and growing our economy for everyone. The Democratic budget proposals offered this week on the House Floor would do just that. In contrast, the Republican budgets are not only cruel and irresponsible, they are unrealistic. They use budget gimmicks to give the appearance that they balance, and they fail to address the many pressing issues that the American people face both at home and abroad. Slashing critical federal programs like Medicare and Medicaid, eliminating essential nutrition assistance, and gutting veterans’ benefits is unacceptable. Republicans should be honest with the American people about what their budget resolution is - a vehicle to support their proposal to cut taxes on the wealthiest and disproportionately shift the tax burden to working Americans. The disastrous Republican budget and tax plan would threaten our economic progress and hurt American workers and their families.
10.3.2017	“The military effort in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands continues to be significantly under-resourced and we are still not responding properly to the logistical needs at hand. These U.S. citizens are in desperate need of heliborne airlift and search capability, truck drivers, and civil engineers to clear roads and enable the delivery of food, water, and supplies. The center of Puerto Rico is still almost entirely cut off from the outside world as a result of power outages, blocked and washed-out roads, and the destruction of telecommunication infrastructure. People are scared in their homes as they lack water, fuel, and electricity. “We currently have only 50 helicopters responding to these logistical challenges, compared to a need for far more and a logistical approach that makes proper use of them. There are only some 10,000 troops involved, in contrast to 60,000 during Hurricane Katrina and 22,000 during last year’s Haiti earthquake. The USNS Comfort is only just arriving and President Trump just now visiting the site of a hurricane that happened on September 20. The USS New York and USS Iwo Jima, which helped with relief in Florida during Hurricane Irma, are still sitting in dock in Florida. “It shouldn’t have taken Congressional pressure to convince President Trump that he should appoint a three-star general to head the effort and send additional supplies. Lt. General Buchanan is only beginning to take stock of the situation, and because of the lag time of more than two weeks, this humanitarian effort is already so far behind the curve that I fear an enormous amount of damage has already been done. “We know that, as American citizens, the people of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands are resilient and resourceful, but many are without food and water and time is running short. Our military has transportation units with truck drivers and engineer units to clear the streets. It has airlift. It has the capabilities that could make a difference if they are put to good use. President Trump needs to exercise leadership and get these capabilities working for Americans who are in need as soon as possible.”
10.3.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) introduced the Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act, legislation to reform the systemic problems in our immigration detention system. Our current system is inhumane, unjust, and driven by private, for-profit corporations like The GEO Group, which operates the Northwest Detention Center located in Tacoma, Washington. This bill will end the use of private facilities and repeal mandatory detention, while restoring due process, oversight, accountability, and transparency to the immigration detention system. “We must fix the injustices in our broken immigration detention system,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “As the Trump administration continues to push a misguided and dangerous immigration agenda, we need to ensure fair treatment and due process for immigrants and refugees faced with detention. This legislation will address some of the worst failings of our immigration policy, and restore integrity and humanity to immigration proceedings.” “The high moral cost of our inhumane immigration detention system is reprehensible. Large, private corporations operating detention centers are profiting off the suffering of men, women and children. We need an overhaul,” said Congresswoman Jayapal. “It’s clear that the Trump administration is dismantling the few protections in place for detained immigrants even as he ramps up enforcement against parents and vulnerable populations. This bill addresses the most egregious problems with our immigration detention system. It’s Congress’ responsibility to step up and pass this bill.” In addition to repealing mandatory detention, a policy that often results in arbitrary and indefinite detention, the legislation creates a meaningful inspection process at detention facilities to ensure they meet the government’s own standards. The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to establish legally enforceable civil detention standards in line with those adopted by the American Bar Association. With disturbing track records of abuse and neglect, DHS has a responsibility to ensure that facilities are held accountable for the humane treatment of those awaiting immigration proceedings. Individuals held in our immigration detention system are subject to civil law, but are often held in conditions identical to prisons. In many cases, detained people are simply awaiting their day in court. To correct the persistent failures of due process, the legislation requires the government to show probable cause to detain people, and implements a special rule for primary caregivers and vulnerable populations, including pregnant women and people with serious medical and mental health issues. "My time in detention in Artesia was a nightmare, a scene in which there is fear, anguish, and desperation in every breath. The immigration detention system harms the lives of thousands of people every day. The solution is not to just improve conditions in these detention centers, the real solution must be a fundamental change. Congress must urgently act to pass this bill and bring change to this tragic system of immigration detention," said Angelina Marquez, survivor of U.S. detention system. “Being detained was difficult in every way. You are a prisoner. I am speaking out because the Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act gives me hope that the U.S. government can find a way to stop the inhumane treatment being given to so many immigrants. We want to live peacefully and safely, and our country’s leaders must remember that all human beings deserve to be treated with dignity,” said Daniel, survivor of U.S. detention system. “Our government locks away hundreds of thousands of people every year, hidden in remote jails with punishing conditions and no accountability. President Trump is asking Congress to give DHS even more money to super-fund this abusive network of jails. We applaud Representatives Smith and Jayapal for responding to this madness with a plan - a workable, compassionate and rights-respecting alternative to today's shameful reality,” said Mary Meg McCarthy of the National Immigration Justice Center. “The Trump administration has made it clear that they will aggressively target immigrants for arrest and detention. This bill is an important step toward stemming the unchecked expansion of the immigration detention system, ensuring much needed oversight and accountability over detention operations and providing greater protections for immigrants. We call on Congress to immediately pass this bill in order to end the over-reliance on an inhumane and ineffective system and treat immigrants in detention with fairness and dignity,” said Lorella Praeli, director of immigration policy and campaigns for the American Civil Liberties Union. “Over the past decade, the immigration detention system has grown dramatically without sufficient safeguards against human and civil rights abuses. It is a system known for egregious violations including sexual assault, prolonged solitary confinement, and life-threatening medical neglect. Many of the people detained are fleeing persecution in their home countries, while others have lived in the U.S. for years. They are often detained in for-profit prisons and county jails isolated from family, community and legal support. Many are detained for months without access to an immigration judge and are denied basic rights.” “Our immigration detention system is a driving force of the U.S. deportation agenda, ruthlessly separating families and communities. For the past three decades the government has put hundreds of thousands of immigrants behind bars at a massive human, financial and moral cost. Under this administration, an already oppressive, inhumane and deadly system of detention has become even bigger, less transparent and less accountable. It is exactly at this moment—as the administration pushes to massively expand the system and further undermine the rights of all immigrants—that Congress must take immediate and decisive action to intervene. While this bill does not fully end the inhumane and unnecessary system of immigration detention, it takes a bold step forward by ending mandatory detention, ending privatized detention, enacting critical safeguards and reversing the trend of constant, unchecked growth,” said Mary Small, Detention Watch Network. The Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act is cosponsored by John Conyers Jr. (MI-13), Maxine Waters (CA-43), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D.C.), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-4), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Bobby Rush (IL-1), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), Danny K. Davis (IL-7), James P. McGovern (MA-2), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Jan Schakowsky (IL-9), Gwen Moore (WI-4), Steve Cohen (TN-9), Keith Ellison (MN-5), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson (GA-4), Chellie Pingree (ME-1), Jared Polis (CO-2), Mike Quigley (IL-5), Judy Chu (CA-27), Bill Foster (IL-11), David N. Cicilline (RI-1), Suzan DelBene (WA-1), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1), Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8), Joseph P. Kennedy III (MA-4), Marc Veasey (TX-33), Ruben Gallego (AZ-7), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Kathleen M. Rice (NY-4), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Jamie Raskin (MD-8), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34). The legislation is also supported by the following civil society organizations: American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Asian Americans Advancing Justice - AAJC, Asian Pacific Institute on Gender-Based Violence, Capital Area Immigrants' Rights Coalition, Center for Community Change, The Center for Victims of Torture, Church Council of Greater Seattle, Church World Service, Colectiva Legal del Pueblo, Columbia Legal Services, Community Initiatives for Visiting Immigrants in Confinement (CIVIC), DC Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Democracy for America, Detention Watch Network, FIRM, Grassroots Leadership, Human Rights First, Human Rights Watch, Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, Immigrant Legal Resource Center, Immigration Equality Action Fund, Just Detention International, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, Make the Road New York, Make the Road NJ, MoveOn.org Civic Action, National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum (NAPAWF), National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, National Immigrant Justice Center, National Immigration Law Center, National Korean American Service & Education Consortium (NAKASEC), National Network to End Domestic Violence, Northwest Immigrant Rights Project, OneAmerica, Our Revolution, Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services (RAICES), South Asian Americans Leading Together (SAALT), Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC), Southern Poverty Law Center, Tahirih Justice Center, United We Dream, Washington Defender Association, Women’s Refugee Commission, 21 Progress
9.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement about this week’s incident regarding racial slurs at the Air Force Academy Preparatory School: “The Air Force needs to investigate this incident thoroughly and take appropriate action. There is no place in the military for these kinds of acts. Incidents like these, even if they are performed by a single individual, offend our moral sensibilities and they can undermine the morale of service members and cadets. It is a bedrock principle that everyone in the U.S. military should be treated with dignity and respect.”
9.27.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, House Armed Services Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) and Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led 145 Members of Congress in writing a letter to President Trump demanding that the Department of Defense deploy additional resources to aid recovery efforts in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Lawmakers are calling for the appointment of a senior general to oversee all recovery efforts, the deployment of life-saving military capabilities that would otherwise be unavailable to the relief effort, deployment of the USS Abraham Lincoln, and an increase in personnel to assist local law enforcement. “President Trump’s effort to aid Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands has been wholly inadequate to date,” said Smith. “When a hurricane hits in the continental United States, you can send massive aid via roads, the National Guard can arrive from neighboring states, and people can leave the affected area. None of that is true here. There is no National Guard Navy, and more than 3.5 million American citizens are isolated and unable to access the most basic supplies. The U.S. military has unique capabilities that can help alleviate this situation, and the President must exercise the proper leadership to make that happen.” “3.5 million American citizens in Puerto Rico are facing a dire humanitarian crisis,” said Velázquez. “I have heard from seniors whose medical needs are not being met due to power outages, children who are suffering from extreme heat in the crowded airport and families who are still unable to contact their loved ones. These are matters of life and death.” “While the situation on the ground remains desperate, President Trump held a press conference yesterday congratulating his Administration on their response,” Velázquez added. “If President Trump doesn’t swiftly deploy every available resource that our country has, then he has failed the people of Puerto Rico -- and this will become his Katrina. Every second in this effort counts and the stakes are too high for further delay, inaction or inefficiency.” The full text of the letter is below and online here with a list of signatories. For a PDF, click here. September 27, 2017 President Donald J. Trump 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: On September 20th, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands endured a direct impact from Hurricane Maria. With winds up to 160 mph, Hurricane Maria devastated these islands, caused significant power outages, destroyed telecommunications infrastructure, and thereby paralyzed the region. Given the impact of the damage and the population of 3.6 million American citizens affected, we are concerned that federal efforts to date have been insufficient to address the severity of the situation. We know there are DOD elements helping today, and all the service members involved are working very hard, but we are concerned that the scale of DOD assets supporting the operation are inadequate. Thus, we write to urge you to further mobilize the Department of Defense to immediately deploy additional assets in support of Puerto Rican and U.S. Virgin Island recovery efforts. As you know, the Department of Defense has additional capabilities that could help alleviate suffering in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and prevent this catastrophe from worsening. First and foremost, a senior general officer must be appointed to work with FEMA to manage a joint response assist with the recovery effort on the ground, and enable local constituencies to have a single point of contact. This was done in response to Hurricane Katrina, and we feel the same approach is warranted now for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. As we are sure you are aware, in both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, there are numerous municipalities that are inaccessible from the ground, which is where DOD engineer and aviation assets would be most helpful. With millions of U.S. citizens stranded in remote areas without basic necessities, engineers are needed first to clear the roads. Additional aviation assets are needed to get relief supplies to isolated locations. Additionally, substantial ground and air logistics support is required to get aid to the islands, rescue stranded citizens, and provide them with supplies and thereafter assist with the restoration of power and telecommunications infrastructure if needed. To fulfill DOD's mission, we believe the aircraft carrier, USS Abraham Lincoln, should be sent to the region, similar to its deployment to Miami following Hurricane Irma. DHS has indicated it has "provided more than 1.5 million meals, 1.1 million liters of water, nearly 300 infant and toddler kits, and nearly 12,000 emergency roofing kits to the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico since Hurricane Maria's landfall." While these meals and resources are profoundly needed, unfortunately, there is a large portion of the population that has been underserved. Lastly, DOD has critical resources that could assist with addressing security issues. We have heard reports that the ongoing supply shortages are causing looting and crime. We were recently informed of armed gangs ransacking a warehouse that distributes food and supplies. Defense Department personnel could provide essential support to local law enforcement in both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands to ensure relief supplies are delivered to those most in need- and that those that have already been immensely devastated by the hurricane, do not need to fear for their lives when filling up their gas at the pump or securing food for their family. We thank you for your immediate attention to this matter. Please feel free to contact us with any questions. We look forward to your timely response. ###
9.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement about President Trump’s response to Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico: “The Trump administration’s response to the destruction in Puerto Rico has been wholly inadequate. A territory of 3.5 million American citizens is almost completely without power, water, food, and telephone service, and we have a handful of helicopters involved in DOD's response. It’s a disgrace. At a minimum, President Trump needs to assemble a coordinated military effort headed by a three-star general officer, as President Bush did after Hurricane Katrina.”
9.14.2017	“Freight infrastructure is critical to our future growth and competitiveness,” said Congressman Smith. “Investments in our freight transportation system support our continued economic development by expanding our capacity to transport goods and providing opportunities for job creation across the country.” The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, passed by Congress in 2015, supports regionally significant freight and highway projects with funds distributed through a grant program and formula funding. The Freight Infrastructure Reinvestment Act (FIRA) of 2017 will expand upon the investments of the FAST Act by creating a sustainable national freight discretionary grant program supported by a dedicated funding source. With the creation of a National Freight Mobility Infrastructure Fund, FIRA will administer strategic grants for infrastructure projects across our national freight mobility network. Funded through a minimal one percent fee on the shipment of freight cargo, this program will invest in freight projects that improve the efficiency, capacity, and safety of our freight mobility system. FIRA will support projects like the construction of highway ramps to carry freight, the reinforcement of roads and bridges for heavier traffic and vehicle volume, the improvement of marine terminals facilities used for freight, and the expansion of rail and highway tunnels to accommodate increased cargo. “Our economy depends on an efficient network of ports, roads and railroads,” said Dick Marzano, co-chair of The Northwest Seaport Alliance. “This proposal will provide our nation an economic boost by enabling much-needed investments in the US freight system. We appreciate Rep. Smith’s leadership and consistent advocacy for freight.” “Investments in freight movement are critical to the success of our ports,” said Kristin Meira, Executive Director of the Pacific Northwest Waterways Association. “Congressman Smith’s bill would provide a much needed funding source to support cargo movement in the Northwest, one of the most trade dependent regions in the nation. We appreciate his dedication to ensuring our region's continued success in the global marketplace.” “While the FAST Act’s freight-focused INFRA program provided a first step in addressing multimodal freight needs, much more is needed, as evidenced by the program’s oversubscription: in its initial round, applicants requested $13 for every $1 available,” said Elaine Nessle, Executive Director of Coalition for America’s Gateways and Trade Corridors. “Congressman Smith’s proposed freight mobility infrastructure fee and National Freight Mobility Infrastructure Fund could provide the next iteration of funding for critical freight projects.” The Freight Infrastructure Reinvestment Act of 2017 has been cosponsored by Representatives Albio Sires and Keith Ellison. The bill has been referred to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure for further consideration.
9.14.2017	“The Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act is an affront to due process that unfairly targets our immigrant communities. This anti-immigrant bill is a blatant effort to support the Trump Administration’s mass deportation agenda. “Republican leadership brought this overly broad legislation to the House floor with no hearings and no opportunity for amendments. Under this legislation, the term ‘criminal gang’ would be expanded to grant the Department of Homeland Security vague discretion to target individuals who have no proven gang affiliation. This low burden of proof will open the door to rampant racial profiling, and result in sweeping detention and deportation activities based on nothing more than a supposed belief of criminal activity. Additionally, the bill raises serious constitutional concerns, by allowing for religious and humanitarian aid workers to be classified as gang members simply for their efforts to shelter undocumented immigrants. “We should be working to enact better, evidence-based solutions to prevent dangerous gangs such as MS-13 from engaging in criminal activity. We should not be targeting vulnerable populations that are trying to escape life-threatening situations. I will continue to fight against legislation that promotes discrimination against immigrants and their families.”
9.14.2017	“Our veterans have served this country bravely and courageously. Many veterans choose to live in the Puget Sound region after their service, and it is my honor to represent them in Congress. It is important that we remember the courage and commitment of the heroic men and women who protected us and fought to ensure our freedom. In coordination with the Library of Congress Veterans History Project, my office recently hosted our Second Annual Veterans History Project (VHP) at Seattle University. The goal of the VHP is to collect, preserve and make accessible the personal accounts of veterans who choose to share their life’s journey from civilian, to service member, to veteran. “Together with volunteers from the Renton Wing of the Civil Air Patrol Cadets, my office was able to record personal accounts from over thirteen veterans at this year’s event. Through partnerships with veteran community stakeholders, the event also provided wraparound services for the veterans in attendance. Organizations like the Seattle University Student Veteran’s Community, Compass Housing Alliance, the Disabled American Veterans, Comcast, and Amazon were able to lend their expertise to veterans on employment, disability claims, housing opportunities, and education benefits and services in our community. As always, this event highlighted the importance of collecting the personal accounts of our nation’s unsung heroes. The VHP is one small way that we can honor our veterans’ sacrifice and bravery, by preserving their legacy.” More photos from the event can viewed here: https://goo.gl/DRC6G9 The Office of Congressman Adam Smith will be recording oral histories from veterans in our community on a rolling basis throughout the year. Interested community members can contact the Renton, District office at 425.793.5180 and visit Congressman Smith’s website for further information on how to participate in the VHP. https://adamsmith.house.gov/veterans-history-project
9.5.2017	to protect Dreamers. Rescinding the DACA program will hurt more than 17,500 Washingtonians who have been granted DACA in Washington state.[1] Like many immigrants before them, these brave young people strengthen our economy and are valued members of our communities. DACA has allowed these young people to pursue their dreams to become teachers, doctors, and entrepreneurs. In addition, the program has provided these people the ability to support themselves and their families, relieving the fear of being ripped from the country where they grew up. Elimination of this critical program will cost Washington state an estimated $1.1 billion in annual gross domestic product (GDP).[2] Nationally, the cruel end of this program will cost $460.3 billion in GDP over the next 10 years. Moreover, a majority of Americans—78 percent—support giving Dreamers the chance to stay permanently in the United States.[3] It is clear that ending this program is an unconscionable mistake. We urge you to take immediate steps to reverse course, and lessen the consequences of your decision. All DACA recipients received a promise from the federal government that as long as they followed the law, the information they provided to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services would not be used in immigration enforcement. Any change to this policy would have a chilling effect on individuals coming forward to pursue legal status for which they may be eligible. We strongly urge you to honor the promise the United States made to Dreamers who came out of the shadows and to not use information provided by DACA recipients to take enforcement actions. Moreover, our state has long served as a leader in welcoming and protecting immigrants. Washington state has led the way to make certain that all residents have access to driver’s licenses, improved access to higher education for Dreamers as well as access to health care for children and refugees. Our economy and society are better for Washington state’s determination to create an inclusive society. We urge you to reconsider your decision to repeal DACA and make sure that Dreamers’ application information is not provided to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. In addition, we demand that you urge your Republican colleagues to work with us on bipartisan legislation that will provide protection to Dreamers and ensure their legal status does not lapse. As you consider your next steps, we invite you to meet with Dreamers in our home state. We are certain that if you get to know these young people as we have, you will understand why your immediate action to protect these people is necessary. Sincerely, Patty Murray Pramila Jayapal United States Senator Member of Congress Maria Cantwell Adam Smith United States Senator Member of Congress Rick Larsen Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Member of Congress Denny Heck Derek Kilmer Member of Congress Member of Congress cc: Jeff Sessions, Attorney General, U.S. Department of Justice Elaine Duke, Acting Secretary, U.S. Department of Homeland Security [1] U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Number of Form I-821D, Consideration of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, by Fiscal Year, Quarter, Intake, Biometrics and Case Status Fiscal Year 2012-2017 (Jun. 8, 2017) available at: https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Resources/Reports%20and%20Studies/Immigration%20Forms%20Data/All%20Form%20Types/DACA/daca_performancedata_fy2017_qtr2.pdf. [2] Nicole Prchal Svajlenka, Tom Jawetz & Angie Bautista-Chavez, A New Threat to DACA Could Cost States Billions of Dollars, Center for American Progress (2017) available at: https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/immigration/news/2017/07/21/436419/new-threat-daca-cost-states-billions-dollars. [3] Morning Consult & Politico, Morning Consult National Tracking Poll #170409, April 20-24, 2017, Crosstabulation Results, available at: https://morningconsult.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/170409_crosstabs_Politico_v1_AG-2.pdf.
9.5.2017	"Ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is irresponsible and contradicts who we are as Americans. DACA provides deportation relief to almost 800,000 immigrants, nearly 18,000 of who live in Washington state. These immigrant youth, known as DREAMers, represent a generation of immigrants who were brought to our country as children, through no fault of their own. Today, DREAMers are actively pursuing the American dream in many fields, including serving as members of the Armed Forces, and becoming teachers and doctors. President Trump’s decision to end DACA breaks our country’s promise of deportation relief to these law-abiding immigrant youth. This decision will only serve to tear families apart and undermine the important contributions of these young people to our country and our economy. "I am committed to supporting immigrant youth and keeping families together, and will fight with my colleagues in Congress, along with Governor Inslee and Attorney General Ferguson in Washington state to defend DACA. In response to the President’s failure of leadership in ending DACA, Congress must keep our country’s promise to DREAMers and stay true to our American values."
9.4.2017	“On Labor Day, we pay tribute to the American worker and their role in supporting a strong economy. In an ever-changing world, the contributions of the labor community make certain that the United States remains globally competitive. As the son of a union baggage handler at SeaTac Airport, I know firsthand how labor unions have helped generations of America’s working families thrive. “We must show America’s workers the same devotion they have shown to our society. Growing economic inequality is one of the defining challenges facing our economy and our country. The commitment of the labor movement to ensuring equality of opportunity is closely aligned with our efforts to enact legislation that will protect living wage jobs, lower health care costs, and ensure that future generations of Americans have the ability to build a better life for themselves and their families.”
9.3.2017	“President Trump’s decision to bring an end to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program disrespects America’s values. DACA has provided relief to nearly 800,000 immigrant youth, protecting individuals from deportation who were brought to the United States as children through no fault of their own. Known as DREAMers, these young people serve in our military, attend school, give back to our communities, and contribute to the American social fabric. After promising DACA recipients they could ‘rest easy,’ President Trump’s decision to end DACA defies our history as a nation of immigrants. I have long supported the DACA program and will continue to do everything in my power to protect DREAMers from deportation. “DREAMers came out of the shadows and willingly gave their information to the government, trusting that they would be protected. Now their futures are in peril due the President’s heartless action. The Trump Administration’s nationalistic immigration policies continue to threaten our country’s principles, undermine the economy, and tear families apart.”
8.28.2017	“This is a dangerous decision. After a careful interagency review, the Obama administration halted the provision of surplus armored vehicles, bayonets, grenade launchers, large-caliber weapons, ammunition, and other specific equipment to state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies for a reason. Providing these weapons can pose risks to our communities, undermine civil liberties, and improperly blur the line between military and civil authority. “We should be especially concerned about handing this equipment to law enforcement agencies without proper training; processes to track where the equipment goes; and enforcement of rules that suspend law enforcement agencies from the program when they violate the law and civil rights. “That is not an idle concern. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) recently found that the 1033 program’s controls for the federal law enforcement program were so inadequate that it provided potentially lethal controlled equipment to a fake Federal law enforcement agency. In the wake of that incident, I have called for the suspension of the program’s controlled-property transfers until adequate controls are in place. “The demonstrated lack of controls in the 1033 program for federal law enforcement should give us additional pause regarding expansion of the program for state, local, and tribal agencies. While some transfers under the 1033 program are valuable, excessive militarization of our civilian police forces is highly inappropriate and we should not be repealing the safeguards established by the Obama administration, especially in the face of these documented problems and documented risks.”
8.26.2017	“President Trump's pardon of Sheriff Arpaio is an affront to the rule of law and a deeply disturbing use of Presidential Power to sanction discrimination. As Sheriff of Maricopa County, Arpaio flagrantly ignored clear Federal immigration enforcement guidelines and aggressively pursued policies of racial profiling. His continued violation of civil rights led to a conviction in a court of law for his unlawful immigration practices. Trump's pardon is an endorsement of the bigoted and racists actions that led to Sheriff Arpaio's conviction, and undermines the pursuit of justice that our system of government is built on.”
8.26.2017	“This Presidential order is a cravenly opportunistic act of discrimination against men and women who volunteer to defend the United States. "President Trump has no credible information suggesting that transgender service undermines military readiness. Yet he is willing to ruin lives and deface our government’s commitment to equality in an apparent attempt to secure funding for his border wall. Apparently, if Mexico won’t pay for the wall, President Trump has decided that honorable men and women in uniform should pay instead as their service is traded away for funding. I oppose this decision in extremely strong terms, and we will fight for its reversal.”
8.24.2017	d indicate a heightened degree of coerciveness to the Department’s actions. Please list each Department of Justice grant, program, or initiative for which the Department has conditioned, or plans to condition, local jurisdictions’ participation upon an assessment of compliance with the two new express conditions described on p. 30 of the Byrne-JAG solicitation form. Does the Department of Justice believe that Byrne-JAG funding has helped local law enforcement agencies increase public safety, including by preventing and reducing shootings and homicides in their jurisdictions? On March 6, Chuck Wexler, the executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, wrote an op-ed in which he said that “police chiefs warn that if their agencies are required to enforce federal immigration laws, it will hurt their ability to investigate and solve serious crimes in their communities. If people are afraid to have contact with the local police, they will not report crime, serve as witnesses, or tell police what is going on in their neighborhoods. Without information from the community, investigating crime becomes difficult and crime levels rise.”[x] How do the Justice Department’s two new express conditions avoid creating this dynamic that Mr. Wexler highlighted? Is the Justice Department able to provide any credible evidence that demonstrates how redirecting local law enforcement resources to enforce civil immigration laws will bring about a significant reduction in shootings and homicides in the City of Chicago? If so, please detail any such evidence. Thank you for your attention on this important matter. We look forward to your prompt response. [1] Sessions Confirmation Hearing Responses to Questions from Senator Durbin, Response 1.a, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Sessions%20Responses%20to%20Durbin%20QFRs.pdf. [1] https://www.bja.gov/jag/index.html, accessed on August 4, 2017 (emphasis added). [1] Sessions Confirmation Hearing Responses to Questions from Senator Durbin at Response 1.b. [1] https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-jeff-sessions-we-cannot-accept-these-levels-violence-chicago. [1] https://www.bja.gov/Funding/JAGLocal17.pdf at p. 30. [1] Id. [1] See, e.g., Rafael Bernal, “Reports find that immigrants commit less crime than US-born citizens,” The Hill, March 19, 2017, available at http://thehill.com/latino/324607-reports-find-that-immigrants-commit-less-crime-than-us-born-citizens. [1] Kevin Rector, “Davis to DOJ: Making crime assistance contingent on local immigration policy 'perplexing,' 'concerning,’” The Baltimore Sun, August 15, 2017, available at: http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/maryland/crime/bs-md-ci-bpd-justice-letter-20170815-story.html. [1] Associated Press, “Cities baffled as Jeff Sessions targets them on immigration,” August 3, 2017, available at http://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/politics-government/national-politics/article165146222.html. [1] Chuck Wexler, “Police chiefs across the country support sanctuary cities because they keep crime down,” Los Angeles Times, March 6, 2017, available at http://www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-wexler-sanctuary-cities-immigration-crime-20170306-story.html. [i] Sessions Confirmation Hearing Responses to Questions from Senator Durbin, Response 1.a, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Sessions%20Responses%20to%20Durbin%20QFRs.pdf. [ii] https://www.bja.gov/jag/index.html, accessed on August 4, 2017 (emphasis added). [iii] Sessions Confirmation Hearing Responses to Questions from Senator Durbin at Response 1.b. [iv] https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-jeff-sessions-we-cannot-accept-these-levels-violence-chicago. [v] https://www.bja.gov/Funding/JAGLocal17.pdf at p. 30. [vi] Id. [vii] See, e.g., Rafael Bernal, “Reports find that immigrants commit less crime than US-born citizens,” The Hill, March 19, 2017, available at http://thehill.com/latino/324607-reports-find-that-immigrants-commit-less-crime-than-us-born-citizens. [viii] Kevin Rector, “Davis to DOJ: Making crime assistance contingent on local immigration policy 'perplexing,' 'concerning,’” The Baltimore Sun, August 15, 2017, available at: http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/maryland/crime/bs-md-ci-bpd-justice-letter-20170815-story.html. [ix] Associated Press, “Cities baffled as Jeff Sessions targets them on immigration,” August 3, 2017, available at http://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/politics-government/national-politics/article165146222.html. [x] Chuck Wexler, “Police chiefs across the country support sanctuary cities because they keep crime down,” Los Angeles Times, March 6, 2017, available at http://www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-wexler-sanctuary-cities-immigration-crime-20170306-story.html.
8.23.2017	“Congratulations to Densho and the Wing Luke Museum of the Asian Pacific American Experience for being awarded these competitive grants to help preserve crucial lessons from our past to help inform our present. Their projects work to maintain the memory of, and educate the public about Japanese American Confinement Sites where more than 120,000 Japanese Americans were imprisoned,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Although Japanese American incarceration is one of the darkest chapters of American history, it is imperative for current and future generations to understand what occurred. These newly-awarded projects ensure this injustice will not be forgotten.” Japanese American Confinement Sites grants are awarded to outstanding organizations and entities working to preserve the history of U.S. Confinement Sites where Japanese Americans were incarcerated following the December 7, 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor by Japan. The grants will fund a variety of protects aimed to tell this important story through creative means. The National Park Service has granted $452,582 to Densho for two of the organization’s projects, “Making Connections with the Japanese American Incarceration II: The Online Teacher Course” and “Sites of Shame – A Comprehensive Online Resource of the Confinement Sites.” The Wing Luke Memorial Foundation and Wing Luke Museum of the Asian Pacific American Experience will receive $148,764 for the foundation’s project, “Inspiring Future Generations: Friends and Supporters Who Helped Those Incarcerated.” For more details about these grants and the program, visit https://www.nps.gov/JACS/projects.html
8.16.2017	“This week, the President has doubled down on his divisive and bigoted language. The renewed prejudice on display during his deranged press conference is further proof that Trump is morally unqualified for any elected leadership position, much less the position of President. “There is no debate, white supremacy and racism are abhorrent ideologies. In failing to clearly disavow hate groups that seek to divide our country, the President is emboldening white supremacists and neo-Nazis. The President’s persistent efforts to excuse racist, xenophobic, and violent groups must be condemned loudly and unequivocally.”
8.12.2017	"The events that have unfolded today in Charlottesville, VA are incredibly tragic. The vile views espoused by White Supremacist movements must be swiftly and loudly condemned. I firmly believe that individuals have the right to express their thoughts and beliefs, but racism is unacceptable and we must be clear that it will not be tolerated. This is not who we are as a country. "In this time of incredible frustration and division, we must stand united as a country against bigotry, racism, and intolerance. We can, and will, rise above this. The behavior on display today is reprehensible. Those responsible for the loss of lives must be brought to justice. My thoughts are with those who have been affected and their families."
8.11.2017	“It is a privilege to see young students, like our local Congressional Award Medal recipients, demonstrate personal initiative and a sincere commitment to bettering Puget Sound communities. I look forward to hearing about the accomplishments of these young leaders in the future. Their teachers, mentors, parents, and communities should all be incredibly proud of their accomplishments. It is my hope that by presenting these awards at my town hall, I can celebrate the spirit of community and service, and help to encourage more students across the District to participate in Congressional Awards Program.” Established in 1979, the Congressional Award is the highest honor Congress bestows upon a youth civilian. In order to receive the award, these young Americans must demonstrate a commitment to voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness, and exploration. 9th Congressional District 2017 Congressional Award Medal Recipients Bronze Gabriel Helms Owen Benda Silver Jamin Zheng Andrew Wittenmyer Jiayi Wang Malav Dipankar Angela Lin* Gold Nicholas Grosinger* Jessica Waller William Waller *Denotes students in attendance at the town hall. Students unable to attend will receive their Congressional Award Medals at an alternate date and time. [[{"fid":"635","view_mode":"full","fields":{"format":"full","field_file_image_alt_text[und][0][value]":false,"field_file_image_title_text[und][0][value]":false},"type":"media","field_deltas":{"2":{"format":"full","field_file_image_alt_text[und][0][value]":false,"field_file_image_title_text[und][0][value]":false}},"link_text":null,"attributes":{"class":"media-element file-full","data-delta":"2"}}]]Medalist Nicholas Grosinger [[{"fid":"634","view_mode":"full","fields":{"format":"full","field_file_image_alt_text[und][0][value]":false,"field_file_image_title_text[und][0][value]":false},"type":"media","field_deltas":{"1":{"format":"full","field_file_image_alt_text[und][0][value]":false,"field_file_image_title_text[und][0][value]":false}},"link_text":null,"attributes":{"class":"media-element file-full","data-delta":"1"}}]]Medalist Angela Lin [[{"fid":"638","view_mode":"full","fields":{"format":"full","field_file_image_alt_text[und][0][value]":"William Waller Congressional Award Medal","field_file_image_title_text[und][0][value]":"William Waller Congressional Award Medal"},"type":"media","field_deltas":{"4":{"format":"full","field_file_image_alt_text[und][0][value]":"William Waller Congressional Award Medal","field_file_image_title_text[und][0][value]":"William Waller Congressional Award Medal"}},"link_text":null,"attributes":{"alt":"William Waller Congressional Award Medal","title":"William Waller Congressional Award Medal","class":"media-element file-full","data-delta":"4"}}]] Medalist William "Max" Waller
8.4.2017	“On the 52nd anniversary of the Voting Rights Act (VRA), we celebrate one of our country’s most important civil rights laws. As we remember this landmark legislation, we must also denounce the Supreme Court’s 2013 Shelby County v. Holder ruling. This decision gutted portions of the VRA, allowing states with a history of voter discrimination the autonomy to re-implement discriminatory voting restrictions. In response to the Shelby v. Holder case, I have cosponsored the Voting Rights Advancement Act. This legislation will institute protections to combat voter discrimination across the country, responds to the rise in modern-day voter disenfranchisement, and helps restore the critical protections of the VRA. “Suppressing voting rights is an outrageous attack on the foundation of democracy. As a member of the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus, I am committed to safeguarding the fundamental right to vote. Congress has a responsibility to protect this constitutional right, and we must do more to ensure all Americans have their voices heard at the ballot box.”
8.3.2017	“The United States has a proud history built on our founding as a nation of immigrants. Our existing immigration system is in dire need of reform, but the deeply prejudicial RAISE Act the President has endorsed is not the solution. This detestable proposal would slash our legal immigration program in half and keep families apart through dramatically altering our current family-based immigration system to a so-called merit-based program. The bill would also deny asylum to tens of thousands of refugees fleeing dangerous conditions and persecution. The RAISE Act contradicts American values, places the future of our economy at serious risk, and endangers our national security. President Trump’s support for the RAISE Act is based on a dangerous fear of America’s increasing diversity, and illustrates a clear misunderstanding of America’s heritage. “The incredible diversity and the range of talents that immigrants have brought to the United States defines our country and our history. In the Puget Sound region, in addition to contributing to our community as scientists and innovators, immigrants are the backbone of our thriving service and tourism industries. Washington state is the third largest agricultural exporter in the United States, made possible only by the hard work of immigrants. We should be focused on legislation to fix our broken immigration system in a way that continues to grow our economy, enrich our culture, and reflect our founding principles. I will fight xenophobic proposals like the RAISE Act to ensure they do not become law.”
7.28.2017	“Today, I voted against the Intelligence Authorization Act because of Congress’ lack of progress in negotiating reforms to, and increasing protections included in, Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), as well as the rushed manner in which the bill was considered by the U.S. House of Representatives. After attempting to bring the legislation up outside of regular order earlier this week, the House Republican leadership ultimately brought the bill to the House Floor today in a format that still did not allow for any amendments. Limiting the ability of Members to offer constructive changes on such a critical component of our government is a disservice to the democratic process. Ultimately, I feel it is unacceptable to pass the authorization of our intelligence programs without a robust debate of important national security programs like Section 702 of FISA. “Section 702 is a statue that authorizes the collection and use of electronic communications of non-U.S. persons without requiring a warrant or proving probable cause. I have concerns with how this section is being used. It is unacceptable to pass a blanket extension of our intelligence programs without incorporating significant reforms to ensure the Fourth Amendment rights of Americans are safeguarded. We must have a transparent and open debate about how we collect information, from whom we collect it, and how it is shared. Congress has a responsibility to thoroughly review and appropriately restructure Section 702 to ensure that American’s civil liberties are protected. While the United States should be allowed to conduct foreign intelligence surveillance, we must remain vigilant in our protection of the Constitutional rights of American citizens.”
7.28.2017	“We need to provide for more environmentally responsible and economically sound management of our public lands,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “As we look for sustainable solutions to our fiscal challenges, the Rural Economic Vitalization Act provides a mechanism to restore our public lands while providing economic opportunities. This legislation will benefit the American taxpayer while simultaneously protecting our environment.” “First, I would like to thank Representative Smith for his leadership on this important issue.” said Rep. Raul Grijalva, who joined Congressman Smith in introducing the legislation. “The federal grazing program is in need of serious reform - the scale of taxpayer money that goes into subsidizing the industry, not to mention the negative impact on the environment, is often overlooked. By making it easier to voluntary retire permits, the Rural Economic Vitalization Act offers a solution that will reduce the impacts of grazing on public lands and complement federal conservation efforts throughout the Western United States, while giving ranchers new financial options. This commonsense bill is a win-win." Background: Existing law does not allow for the retirement of grazing permits. This outdated policy has negative impacts on wildlife, watersheds, and the surrounding ecosystem, which continue to be harmed by domestic livestock grazing. In addition to the environmental issues that intensify the impacts of climate change, the federal grazing program is heavily subsidized and costs American taxpayers over $109.4 million a year. The Government Accountability Office reports that in Fiscal Year 2016, the BLM and U.S. Forest Service spent $135.9 million on grazing management, but only reported collecting $26.5 million in grazing fees.
7.27.2017	“The “Security Minibus” appropriations bill the House is currently debating is completely disconnected from the realities that our country faces and the spending choices we must make. This spending package includes funding for the Department of Defense, Department of Veterans Affairs, Legislative Branch, Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, agencies of the Department of Interior, and several independent agencies. “I am strongly opposed to this legislation because of the level of defense spending it mandates. We cannot continue to increase defense spending at the expense of critical domestic funding priorities such as transportation infrastructure, protecting the environment, ensuring access to education, and providing affordable health care. Additionally, the minibus would require $1.6 billion in wasteful funding for an unnecessary border wall for which the President promised American taxpayers wouldn’t pay, and eviscerates vital funding for clean energy and advanced energy research. The bill does not reflect the priorities of the American people and fails to acknowledge the finite resources that we have at our disposal. “As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I recently voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). I did so because I support the policies contained in the NDAA, but I have and continue to raise serious concerns with the unsustainable budgeting that has become the norm for defense spending. In contrast to the NDAA, which authorizes the critical programs for our men and women in uniform, today’s bill spends an untenable level of funding for the Department of Defense. This legislation would trigger sequestration cuts that would make our budget challenges infinitely more difficult to solve. We need to make hard decisions about our fiscal future and invest in building an economy that works for all Americans.”
7.27.2017	“The Defense Department should not be providing military equipment to civilian law enforcement agencies until we can be sure the program is capable of preventing dangerous items from falling into the wrong hands. The transfer of ‘controlled property’ under the 1033 program should be suspended until DLA fully implements the control measures that GAO has recommended, and makes its own planned changes to improve the oversight, management, and control of the program,” said Congressman Smith. “DLA annually transfers hundreds of millions of dollars worth of taxpayer-funded excess military equipment to federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies, the overwhelming majority of which are departments of 50 or fewer people. As evidenced during the unrest in Ferguson, Missouri, a few years ago, the transfer of potentially lethal ‘controlled’ military equipment can become controversial when the equipment is used inappropriately. “It is absolutely essential that DLA maintain accountability for this equipment. DLA must address the internal control weaknesses identified by GAO and must ensure compliance with 1033 program guidelines, especially validation of the identification of individuals who accept the transferred ‘controlled property’ in the name of the receiving law enforcement agency. We should not allow the 1033 program to continue to transfer ‘controlled property’ until we know it has fully addressed the identified issues. Our committee will continue its close oversight of this program and appreciates the work GAO fulfilled at the committee’s request.” “When properly managed, the 1033 Program is a critical resource for budget-constrained law enforcement agencies, especially for procuring ‘non-controlled’ equipment,” said Congresswoman Bordallo. “However the revelations contained in the GAO report are deeply concerning and it is clear that proper safeguards are not currently in place for ‘controlled’ equipment. The report highlights the negligence with which DLA treated property procured with taxpayer dollars and demonstrates a lack of accountability, and a dangerous vulnerability, that could have compromised the safety of the American people. While the DLA has taken steps to address the recommendations made by GAO, the point nonetheless remains that the job is unfinished. Until we can fully ensure oversight and accountability, and verify that the necessary controls are in place, we should temporarily suspend any transfers of ‘controlled’ equipment under this program. The American people must be confident that this program will not be misused and their safety is paramount for this program moving forward.” On July 18, 2017, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report detailing its findings from an investigation into the DLA’s internal controls over the 1033 program. In the course of the investigation, GAO employed a sting operation that involved the creation of a fake law enforcement organization to purchase excess military equipment from DLA. The organization succeeded in acquiring a number of controlled items. You can read the report here: (https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-17-532) The House Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Readiness held a hearing on the findings on Thursday, July 27, 2017. You can watch the hearing here: (https://youtu.be/Kj0fOWcQorE)
7.26.2017	“This announcement is an unwarranted and disgraceful attack on men and women who have been bravely serving their country. These service members are defending the United States around the world as we speak, and they have long done so with distinction. To prevent transgender people from joining the military and to push out those who have devoted their lives to this country would be ugly and discriminatory in the extreme. “Secretary of Defense Mattis is currently engaged in a six-month review of policies to bring in new transgender recruits, and he has determined that transgender people who are currently serving should continue to serve. “On January 31, President Trump said that he ‘is determined to protect the rights of all Americans, including the L.G.B.T.Q. community. President Trump continues to be respectful and supportive of LGBTQ rights, just as he was throughout the election.’ What has changed since then? The inflated cost estimates that President Trump appears to be alluding to have no basis in fact, and appear to be cooked up by right-wing advocacy organizations whose real interest is not to support military readiness but to further discrimination. The cost of all hormone therapy for transgender individuals serving in the military since 2012 has been a grand total of $297,000, and there is no indication that the thousands of transgender people currently serving in the military have negatively impacted readiness. “It takes a brave and committed person to volunteer to defend this country, and every American that is able and willing to do so should be allowed to join the U.S. military. We will fight this decision, just like we fought ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ and ultimately justice will prevail.”
7.25.2017	“Russian attempts to influence the 2016 presidential election in the United States were flagrant and unacceptable. Their meddling has not been confined simply to our borders – as they carried out aggressive campaigns to disrupt the elections of our European partners. These actions must stop. “In response, I joined a bipartisan majority of my colleagues today in voting in favor of comprehensive legislation that codifies existing sanctions put in place under the Obama Administration and enacts new sanctions against individuals and entities involved in these activities, and brings renewed pressure to the governments of North Korea and Iran. This package makes clear that cyber-attacks, provocative missile tests, and other destabilizing work by these governments runs contrary to global peace and security. It is incumbent upon our nation to lead the international community in confronting these actions. “Today’s vote is a meaningful step in preventing Vladimir Putin from conducting future influence campaigns around the world and ensuring accountability for the Russian Federation’s destabilizing actions in Ukraine including the attempted annexation of Crimea and fomenting conflict in eastern Ukraine. This bill also holds President Trump accountable in any potential roll-back of existing sanctions. It also holds that North Korea’s continued violations of U.N. resolutions and threats to disrupt the Indo-Asia-Pacific region cannot be allowed to continue. Following the July 4, 2017 North Korean missile test, on top of continued Iranian ballistic missile tests, the United States must make clear that further development of long-range weapons systems that threaten the United States and its allies is unacceptable. “Also included in the bill were critically needed initiatives, such as a pilot program to facilitate the processing of remittances by local credit unions and banks here in the United States to Somalia. The ability of Somali Americans to send money to their loved ones is an issue of life or death for families in Somalia, and we must explore creative solutions that allow for the continued flow of remittances to Somalia. The worsening humanitarian crisis in this fragile country will be made far worse if we do not take action. “In recognition of the important provisions of this legislation, I encourage swift enactment of this package of sanctions for President Trump to sign into law.”
7.18.2017	Congressman Adam Smith will be a special guest at an event for small and diverse businesses this Friday, July 21st. Here in the Puget Sound region, small and diverse businesses are pillars of our local economy, and play critical roles in our continued economic growth and vitality. Small Business Industry Day Information: When: Friday, July 21, 2017, 8:30 am to 12:00 pm. Congressman Smith will speak from 9:00 – 9:30 am. Where: Renton Pavilion, 233 Burnett Ave S. Renton, WA 98057 Who: Small and diverse businesses in manufacturing, engineering, and other industries Program: Learn how to do business with Northrop Grumman. Meet with representatives from Northrop Grumman’s team. Connect with resource partners. In partnership with: Washington State Department of Commerce Washington Center for Women in Business Pacific Northwest Defense Coalition Pacific Northwest Aerospace Alliance Washington State Procurement Technical Assistance Center Learn more by visiting the Washington State Procurement Technical Assistance Center website: https://washingtonptac.ecenterdirect.com/events/850887 Media interested in attending should contact Rebecca Bryant at 202.225.8901 or Rebecca.Bryant@mail.house.gov.
7.14.2017	“An enormous amount of good bipartisan work has gone into the writing of this bill, and I am supporting it. Make no mistake about it: We face a complex threat environment. North Korea is testing intercontinental ballistic missiles, Russia continues to undermine not just our elections, but democracy itself across the globe, and we face a terrorist threat. These are dangers that we must be prepared to confront. “On the issue of terrorism, I want to warn strongly against using the issue of terrorism to demonize the Muslim religion. I know many people don’t want to do that—they simply want to confront groups like Al Qaeda and ISIS—but Steve Bannon, who works at the White House, indicates that he thinks that all Muslims are a threat. To the extent that we adopt a national security policy that views the world that way, we make the problem worse. That’s what ISIS wants. That’s what Al Qaeda wants. They want a clash of civilizations. We should not want that. Muslims have the biggest stake in this, and we must work with them, not against them, to confront the terrorist threat that ISIS and Al Qaeda and others present. “On the broader budget issue, the main thing I am still concerned about in this bill is that it really doesn’t make choices. It continues to spend money in a variety of different places without a recognition of finite resources, and of the choices that need to be made about how to confront the threats that are most dangerous to us. This defense bill is $72 billion over the budget caps, so if we don’t eliminate or raise the budget caps, that additional money will go away, and leave us once again in the land of uncertainty for the Department of Defense. We have to make choices so that we don’t leave the U.S. military in the lurch, not knowing how much money they are going to have. “I also want to point out that the rest of the budget does matter. The President’s budget contains a $54 billion plus-up for defense and a $54 billion cut from nondefense discretionary spending. So don’t tell me one thing doesn’t have anything to do with the other. What are we talking about with domestic spending? Here are a few examples: I mentioned our infrastructure, that bridges are collapsing all across the country. We have incredible infrastructure needs that lead to the strength of our country. They are connected, just like national defense is, to the strength of this nation. “Another example is the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, which is close to my district in Seattle. It is doing incredible research right now about how not to use chemotherapy, but to actually go in and take out the white blood cells that aren’t working, get them to work, send them back in, and successfully fight cancer. This has worked for blood cancers, and they’ve just started studies on lung cancer, where basically we could cure cancer without going through the hell of chemo. The President’s budget would cut Fred Hutchinson’s funding by more than two-thirds. “So cutting domestic spending is not a political issue. It is a policy choice, and a very real deed that has an incredible impact on the lives of Americans just like national security, just like making sure North Korea doesn’t hit us with nuclear weapons. Making sure that terrorist groups don’t attack us, curing cancer, stopping bridges from collapsing, these are policy priorities. And because we’re not making budget choices, these are priorities that get pushed aside. “We heard yesterday that in a time of war, you make domestic sacrifices. We’ve read all about World War II and the domestic sacrifices that were made at that time. But you know what else you do in a time of war? You don’t cut taxes. You raise them. Prior to 2001, we had never gone to war without raising taxes or issuing war bonds or raising more revenue. Yet, we are unwilling to do that. I care enough about the national security of our country that I would raise taxes and pay for it. That’s the choice I would make. These choices are not being made in this so-called budget resolution, and I think that places us at risk. “Lastly, the nondefense discretionary budget is the State Department; it’s USAID; it’s the Department of Homeland Security. If you’re going to have a national security strategy, it can’t just be the military. And you know who will tell you that more often than anybody? The military. They don’t want to bear the burden alone. Secretary Mattis said it best when he told us, I believe, that ‘If you’re going to cut diplomacy, if you’re going to cut development, you had better give me four more divisions. Because that’s how many more wars I’m going to have to fight.’ All of these things matter to the national security of this country. “It is more likely than not that this bill—with all the good work that has been done on a number of different policy provisions unrelated to the money—that all of that is in jeopardy because this bill has at least $72 billion in it over the budget caps, that is not likely to be there come October 1 or the end of the year. So, if we don’t make the choices on the budget that reflect the priorities of the entire country, that actually reflect the budget numbers, then we are doing a disservice to the men and women who serve our country. It’s a good bill. It is going to be better once we figure out the budget issues and actually start making the choices that are necessary to make us stronger in every aspect of society.”
7.1.2017	"This decision to delay transgender accession to the military is unjustified and morally wrong. The Defense Department has already studied the issue extensively and found that there are no substantial practical obstacles to allowing trans people to join the military and defend their country. To the contrary, many are already serving in the military and doing so with distinction. The only remaining obstacle is prejudice."
6.22.2017	s. America must be prepared for a range of Russian hostile acts, including military provocation and cyberattacks. That’s why this bill is so critical—we need a comprehensive, organized response to these threats to our democracy,” said Speier. “I support this bill because it embraces a clear and all-inclusive approach to countering the serious threats that Russia poses to our nation’s democracy. It’s time that America takes a strong stance against their provocations,” said Veasey. “For the past year, Russia has attempted to influence, alter, and undermine American democracy—and addressing this head-on must be a national security priority. When our democracy is threatened, we must act—and not just with press statements, but with a real plan,” said Norcross. “That’s why I’m joining with colleagues to prevent a hot war, a cold war, a cyber war, and a nuclear war. This bill offers a comprehensive set of solutions that will help us strengthen our alliances and reduce the risk of another nuclear arms race.” "The threat from Russia is real, clear, and immediate. Russia is an enemy that undermines our elections, degrades our alliance network, and abuses the human and civil rights of its own people and freedom-loving peoples around the world,” said Gallego. “While President Trump continues to cozy up to President Putin, his feckless handling of foreign policy is putting our national security at risk. Through the Fostering Unity Against Russian Aggression Act, Democrats in Congress are working to preserve America’s formidable leadership of the Western alliance in opposition to Putin.” “Russia has conducted an aggressive campaign to undermine not only our democracy, but democracies in Western Europe. I am proud to support Ranking Member Smith’s bill that addresses these attacks with an effective strategy--something the Administration has failed to do. Congress cannot stand idly by while President Trump fails to respond to a grave threat to our democracy,” said Moulton. “Russia’s aggressive actions make clear the need for a comprehensive U.S. deterrence strategy. By passing this bill, Congress can forcefully reaffirm America’s commitment to the NATO alliance and jumpstart needed improvements to our own and our allies’ readiness to counter unconventional modes of aggression, including propaganda and cyberattacks,” said Shea-Porter. “Since the start of the investigation into Russian meddling, an overwhelming number of our nation's intelligence officials have confirmed Russian interference in the 2016 election, with many now warning of similar cyberattacks and hacking during upcoming elections,” said Rosen. “I am proud to join my colleagues in support of this bill, which proposes a comprehensive strategy to deter Russian hostility because nothing could be more important to our way of life than the integrity of our democracy.” “By meddling in our elections last year, Russia attacked our democracy. That aggression calls for a strong and sustained response. We must continue to strengthen our partnerships with European allies—and we need to proactively plan for the new and unconventional threats we are already facing. I am pleased to join Ranking Member Smith in supporting a bill that does all this and more,” said McEachin. “Military leaders have continually expressed that Russian aggression poses a grave threat to our national security and we cannot take these concerns lightly,” said Carbajal. “It is imperative that Congress pass this common-sense legislation and provide a comprehensive framework to combat methods the Russian government is employing to destabilize our democratic institutions, both in the United States and abroad.” “Russia has repeatedly worked to weaken our democracy and sow disunity among the United States and its allies. In addition to maliciously interfering in our election and those in Germany and France, the Kremlin has deployed missiles in violation of arms control treaties and committed unprovoked acts of aggression in Eastern Europe. This bill calls for a comprehensive strategy to address Russia while working to deescalate conflict that would be catastrophic for all. Ranking Member Smith’s legislation is a significant step forward in ensuring we hold Russia accountable for its harmful and destabilizing activities around the world,” said Brown. "Russia uses both military and non-military tools to achieve its geopolitical objectives, and uses those tools globally to diminish the United States. It is critical for the United States to have a strong and comprehensive strategy to counter Russian aggression, and this bill would ensure that the Administration develops and implements such a strategy," said Murphy. “There can be no mistake, Russia’s blatant disregard for international agreements and treaties must be countered with strength on the international stage,” said O’Halleran. “I am proud to support legislation that strengthens our commitment to the collective defense of our allies. We must take action to end to this encroaching aggression and prevent future attempts to weaken our democracy, or the democratic process in countries around the world.” “As I’ve been saying since day one, we need to send Putin a strong message that we’re not going to let him undermine democratic governments. Secretary of Defense James Mattis and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Joseph Dunford have said that Russia continues to pose a serious threat to democracies. This bill is an effort of Congress to work with the Department of Defense to develop a comprehensive strategy to confront the 21st century hybrid threat posed by Russia,” said Suozzi.
6.8.2017	“Former Director Comey’s testimony today in the United States Senate further confirms the enormous threat posed by Russian interference with our election system in the 2016 cycle and its continued efforts around the world. This interference should deeply concern all Americans, and the need to take measures to protect our democratic system of government should span the political aisle. “It is beyond disturbing for the President to attempt to stifle the FBI investigation into election meddling from any foreign power. It is especially alarming for this interference to take place in the midst of an investigation that is focused on actions taken by the President and his colleagues with respect to that foreign power. The Department of Justice, together with the FBI, is tasked with carrying out independent investigations, free from political interference. We must continue to carefully follow the facts, wherever they may lead us. President Trump may continue to refuse to uncover and acknowledge the truth, but the American public deserves answers.”
6.1.2017	“President Trump’s withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement is a disastrous move that undermines the most significant global climate change agreement to date. Either the President does not understand or simply does not care about the devastating impact global climate change will bring about. “As the world’s second-largest polluter, emitting fifteen percent of global emissions, but with only about five percent of the world’s population, the United States has a moral obligation to reduce carbon emissions. The Administration’s action also shows a disturbing ignorance of our country’s role as an international leader and a complete disregard for the proven science and consequences of a changing climate. “With sea-levels continuing to rise, global temperatures increasing, and record droughts and fires destroying communities, it is irresponsible to abandon the international community. Across the world, extreme weather events and climate change disproportionately impact people and communities of color and those living in poverty. The United States and the international community have supported advancements in global health, stability, and democracy to combat climate change while making strides in promoting policies focused on expanding environmental justice. I have been heartened to see that combined efforts have created new jobs, increased standards of living, and lifted millions out of poverty. Now is not the time for the United States to turn its back on progress and our international partners. “The fight to prevent a changing climate does not stop today. In response to the Trump Administration’s failure to lead, we must support the actions of our local leaders as they implement policies that prioritize improvements to public health and investments in programs that mitigate the growing dangers of climate change. I am proud to represent a district that prioritizes a sustainable relationship with nature, and I take my commitment to protecting our environment seriously. I will continue to fight for policies that allow for future generations to lead prosperous and healthy lives.”
5.30.2017	“Each Memorial Day we remember and honor the men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our country. Our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen are deserving of our utmost respect. America’s freedom and liberty are possible thanks to their service to our country. As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am honored to advocate for our military personnel and their families. I will continue to fight to make sure all active duty military, national guard members, reservists, veterans and gold star spouses receive the support and services that they deserve. “On Memorial Day, and throughout the year, we should show our continued gratitude to the servicemembers, veterans, and their families who help keep our country free and prosperous. We are forever grateful for their service and the critical role they have in building a more just and stable world.”
5.26.2017	“I am pleased to be an original co-sponsor of this this bicameral, bipartisan legislation to advance U.S. interests by creating opportunities for economic development and to improve planning and coordination of our international development efforts,” said Rep. Adam Smith. “America is the most generous nation in the world when it comes to foreign aid,” said Rep. Ted Yoho, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. “Today’s introduction of the bi-partisan Economic Growth and Development Act (EGDA) will ensure that our foreign aid dollars are used effectively and efficiently. By focusing on these objectives, we can transition recipient countries from aid to trade with the United States. I want to thank Rep. Adam Smith for joining me in introducing this bill. I would also like to thank Senator Isakson for introducing his companion bill in the Senate as well as his co-leads, Senators Coons and Perdue. Collectively we can refocus the delivery of U.S. foreign aid so it leads down a path of shared economic prosperity for all.” Full text of the legislation can be viewed HERE. Background: U.S. Sens. Isakson and Coons are co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus for Effective Foreign Assistance in the U.S. Senate along with U.S. Reps. Yoho and Smith in the U.S. House of Representatives.
5.23.2017	“Instead of proposing a budget that makes available the tools Americans and this country need to succeed, the Trump Administration has proposed a disastrous and ideologically-driven budget that demonstrates this President’s complete lack of interest in or understanding of the realities of governing. The President has doubled down on his earlier campaign promises, and makes clear he wants to limit the government’s ability to improve the lives of working Americans and diminish our country’s role in the world. “The budget released today would radically slash investments in programs that seek to expand broad-based economic opportunities and are effective at growing our economy. This proposal would up-end healthcare in the United States, undermine equitable universal education, underinvest in infrastructure, and inflict disastrous cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency and National Institutes of Health, among many other agencies and programs. The proposal would endanger the health, well-being, and success of Americans now and in the future. Furthermore, this proposal supports an isolationist worldview that ignores the importance of diplomacy and development abroad. “The assumptions underlying the Administration’s budget are also based on budget gimmicks. Tax cuts do not pay for themselves and economic growth cannot be wished into existence. Instead, we must enact sound policy solutions and make strategic investments in the economy. It is telling that Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle have already stated that this budget proposal is dead on arrival. “I fundamentally believe that government can, and should, be a force for good. We can responsibly invest in our future and grow the economy to ensure that America remains strong at home and abroad. I encourage the President and my colleagues in Congress to support a budget that focuses on investing in a better future for everyone.”
5.17.2017	“This month’s tunnel breach at the Hanford Nuclear Site underscores the importance of policies that prioritize worker health and safety. While the complete collapse of the tunnel was averted, I remain concerned. The Department of Energy (DOE) is relying more on luck than on certainty that all measures have been taken to avoid a potential incident that could release radiation and contamination. Such an incident would cause unacceptable harm, endanger lives and require long-term evacuations of the area and huge remediation costs. There have been too many near-misses across the nuclear complex. In addition to this latest incident, there are on-going concerns about noxious fumes at Hanford. Looking beyond Hanford to the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in New Mexico, in 2014, a drum burst because of an inexcusable typo in drum packing guidance which could have killed or sickened workers at the site had the underground area not been evacuated a week prior due to an unrelated incident. The culture of complacency cannot continue. “A successful clean-up of Hanford requires rigorous safety rules and regulations, as well as a strong and reliable safety culture that focuses on protecting the men and women conducting the essential, and often dangerous, work at the site. The DOE and its partners must demonstrate that it has met these objectives and use all incentives and coercive measures at its disposal to do so. The health and safety of employees at Hanford must always come before consideration of the bottom line. “As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will carefully monitor the investigation into the tunnel collapse and efforts to ensure that the risk of another collapse at additional tunnels is as close to zero as possible. I remain committed to ensuring a safe and transparent clean-up at Hanford and I will continue to fight to ensure that the DOE has the well-being of all workers as a top priority and that it has the resources it needs to do so.”
5.9.2017	“President Trump's decision to fire FBI director James Comey is deeply disturbing. It comes as Comey is in the midst of an investigation into possible collusion between Trump campaign officials and Russian operatives to interfere in the 2016 presidential election. We know the Russians were behind the hacking of DNC emails and that they did so to try and give Trump an advantage in the election. Furthermore, there is troubling evidence of connections between a number of Trump campaign operatives and the Russians, connections that on more than one occasion those Trump campaign officials were caught lying about. “FBI Director Comey was in charge of what was the one clearly independent investigation of this unprecedented interference in our elections by a foreign power. Did Trump fire Comey to stop this investigation? There is no way to prove that, but it is a very troubling coincidence. Coupled with President Trump's refusal to turn over his tax returns and continuing denial of what the Russians clearly did in the election, there is every reason to believe our president is acting to stop any legitimate investigation into those Russian actions. “We are a nation of laws, not individuals. By firing Director Comey President Trump has shown he does not understand this basic, governing, Constitutional principle of our nation. We must continue to push for a special prosecutor to get to the bottom of what happened in the 2016 election and not let this President sweep it under the rug.”
5.5.2017	“The executive order President Trump signed today allows for discrimination under the guise of religious freedom. I respect the fundamental right of free exercise of religion, but not at the expense of women’s personal health decisions that should be left between them, their doctor, and their family. Freedom of religion does not include the right to impose those beliefs on others. “I strongly support increasing access to family planning services. We need to fight for equality for all – not encourage and legitimize those who seek to limit women’s reproductive rights. Family planning has been proven to reduce the number of unintended pregnancies and, as a result, the total number of abortions. I will continue to fight this and similar attacks every step of the way.”
5.4.2017	“House Republicans voted today to eliminate essential health benefits and protections for Americans. No one—especially not those Republicans who voted to pass it—bothered to consider the costs or the actual impacts of the American Health Care Act (AHCA) on working Americans, those with pre-existing conditions, and people who rely on Medicare and Medicaid. The Affordable Care Act (ACA) was by no means a cure to all of our healthcare challenges, but today’s bill ignores any opportunity for meaningful changes, and instead represents a dangerous leap backwards. “Prior to the 2010 enactment of the ACA, health care costs were rapidly increasing, government budgets were straining under health costs, and many patients, including those with pre-existing conditions, were unable to access affordable health coverage. We simply cannot revert to a system that allows costs to increase unchecked, insures too few, and drains our economy. “Republicans, driven by a desire to deliver on a political promise, made irresponsible and harmful changes to the ACHA, which erode essential protections and high quality care, solely to placate Members of the House Republican caucus. Republicans are kidding themselves if they believe eliminating coverage for millions is a desirable approach to further improving health care in this country. Rather than building upon our existing health care law, they are systematically destroying our health care structure. Republicans, led by President Trump, have already undermined the current system by inserting uncertainty and instability into the market, rolling back key consumer protections, weakening enforcement of the individual mandate, and tampering with rules to benefit insurers at the cost of the American people. “Today’s vote is the height of irresponsibility. Republicans hold power at all levels of our federal government. They must govern for all Americans, not just their ideologically-driven base, and take the time to craft a bipartisan health care bill that improves the health and wellbeing of all Americans.”
4.28.2017	“It is my honor to recognize the Odle Middle School team from Bellevue, Washington, for winning their regional competition in this year’s National Science Bowl. They have advanced to represent Washington state in the National Science Bowl’s National Finals, which will be held in Washington, D.C. this weekend. “To advance to the National Finals, the students answered challenging questions focused on math, earth science, and biology, in a fast-paced quiz bowl format. The students competed with more than 9,000 high school students and 4,500 middle school students in 70 high school and 50 middle school regional Science Bowl tournaments. “I would like to acknowledge the hard work and discipline these students and their coach displayed in preparing for this challenging competition. They should be enormously proud of their accomplishment in making it to the National Finals. “Today, I had the pleasure of meeting these incredibly bright and remarkable students while they were here in D.C. I wish them luck this weekend in the National Finals of the Science Bowl, and I know they will make Odle Middle School and our region proud. I look forward to seeing the contributions these students will have in their community and our country as future leaders in whatever endeavors they decide to pursue.” [[{"fid":"616","view_mode":"full","fields":{"format":"full","field_file_image_alt_text[und][0][value]":false,"field_file_image_title_text[und][0][value]":false},"type":"media","field_deltas":{"1":{"format":"full","field_file_image_alt_text[und][0][value]":false,"field_file_image_title_text[und][0][value]":false}},"attributes":{"height":"3536","width":"5303","class":"media-element file-full","data-delta":"1"},"link_text":false}]]
4.27.2017	“Our current tax code is overly-complex; there is no question it needs reexamination and overhaul. The tax proposal released today by President Trump would be disastrous. Its almost singular focus on cutting taxes for wealthy people and companies will harm working people and undermine a healthy economy. “It is deeply hypocritical for Republicans to have claimed for years that responsible budgets and limiting deficits matter, only to now support excessive and unpaid-for tax cuts. If spurring economic growth was as easy as cutting taxes, our economy would have grown considerably more in the past 16 years, following the Bush tax cuts. “The revenues generated by our tax system directly fund our government and its efforts to care for our fellow Americans, keep our country safe, and invest in the future through education, housing, research, defense, infrastructure, and other priorities. This plan drastically reduces revenues and will devastate government and programs in all areas, explode budget deficits, and risk destroying our economy. I hope that my Republican colleagues in Congress will have the good sense to reject this unwise tax proposal and instead focus on making government work better for everyone.”
4.22.2017	“Protecting the planet and defending the environment must be a key priority for all of us. I am proud to represent a Congressional District where we care deeply about protecting our environment for generations to come. Earth Day has a strong history in our region, with community leader Denis Hayes serving as the coordinator for the first Earth Day in 1970. Today, those that call the Pacific Northwest home aspire to have a sustainable relationship with nature. “As we celebrate Earth Day this year, we focus on the theme of 'Environmental and Climate Literacy' recognizing that we need to build a global community aware of and ready to tackle the problem of climate change. Efforts to combat climate change face unprecedented opposition in today's political climate. In response to this, leaders across the U. S. and around the world must look to the future with a renewed focus to create green job opportunities, provide energy savings, and build a healthier environment. “In defense of our planet, I will continue to fight for communities, both around the world and in the U.S., who are the most vulnerable. As the second-largest emitter of pollution, with only about five percent of the world’s population, it is our responsibility to lead by example in reducing carbon emissions and ensure that people and communities of color are not forgotten. I am focused on ensuring these groups are fully engaged in designing and implementing policy solutions to ensure equitable outcomes. Together, we can save our planet and allow for future generations to lead promising and healthy lives.”
4.4.2017	“A primary duty of the United States Government is to protect its citizens, but it is critical that in doing so we do not forget our obligation to protect the privacy and rights of Americans,” said Congressman Smith. “This legislation will provide clear and commonsense legal avenues for the Department of Homeland Security to pursue those who commit crime and wish to do our country harm without infringing on the rights of American citizens. Importantly, it will ensure that American citizens and legal residents returning to the U.S. from overseas are not subject to invasive, warrantless searches of their data. Your private information should remain just that – private.” “The government should not have the right to access your personal electronic devices without probable cause,” Congressman Polis said. “Whether you are at home, walking down the street, or at the border, we must make it perfectly clear that our Fourth Amendment protections extend regardless of location. This bill is overdue, and I am glad we can come together in a bicameral, bipartisan manner to ensure that Customs and Border Patrol agents don’t continue to violate essential privacy safeguards.” “The Supreme Court has made clear that generally law enforcement must get a warrant before searching an electronic device. Yet, CBP continues to seize and search thousands of travelers’ devices every year without a warrant,” said Neema Singh Guliani, ACLU Legislative Counsel. “Congress must now take action to end this unwise and unconstitutional practice by enacting this important bill.” "The Protecting Data at the Border Act is timely legislation that would rein in Customs and Border Protection. In recent months, we have seen an alarming increase in the number of invasive device searches at the border,” said EFF Staff Attorney Sophia Cope. “The extraordinary privacy interests in our cell phones and other mobile devices are not the same as those for a suitcase. EFF supports this important bill, which would require border agents to do what we believe the Constitution requires: get a probable cause warrant." “A search of your cell phone or social media account is a direct look behind the curtain that covers the most intimate aspects of your life. A border stop shouldn’t be an excuse for extreme surveillance such as downloading the entire contents of your phone. This bill would ensure that the government demonstrates a good reason for searches at the border, and that a judge agrees,” said Greg Nojeim, CDT Director, Freedom, Security, and Technology Project. Background: The Protecting Data at the Border Act was introduced in response to recent countless stories of individuals being arbitrarily stopped at the border. These reports are both worrisome and threatening to the very principles of due process – a founding principle of our democratic system of government. Originally introduced by Congressman Smith as the “Traveler’s Privacy Protection Act,” this updated legislation reflects the changing digital landscape in which Americans are regularly engaged. The legislation will set strict standards on border searches for accessing not only electronic devices such as cell phones and laptops, but also to protecting the privacy of your data and information stored online. This legislation would not in any way hamper the safety or security of travelers. It specifically allows for the screening of devices to ensure they are not otherwise dangerous (as is current standard practice when traveling inside the U.S.) The bill includes measures to ensure the privacy of your social media accounts, online presence data, and cloud storage. This is not an exceptional standard – within the United States, these search protections exist under the 4th Amendment. The fact that we do not extend these constitutional protections to the border is something that, in this technological era, must be fixed immediately. The Protecting Data at the Border Act requires reasonable suspicion of illegal activity for Department of Homeland Security (DHS) agents to search the contents of laptop computers or other electronic devices carried by U.S. citizens or lawful residents, and it prohibits profiling travelers based on their race, ethnicity, religion, or national origin. Additionally, the bill requires a warrant or court order to seize information uncovered during a search, and ensures that information acquired during an electronic search is protected by strict disclosure limitations. Reporting requirements also mandate that DHS provides information on its border search policies and practices to Congress and the public.
4.4.2017	“Today is Equal Pay Day, 94 days after the new year, and the day when women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. It is unacceptable that 53 years after passing the Equal Pay Act, women still make 79 cents for every dollar earned by their male counterparts. We cannot afford to wait any longer. Congress must act now to make equal pay for equal work a reality and close the gender pay gap. “For this reason, I am a proud cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act to strengthen and close loopholes in the 1963 Equal Pay Act. Every year that we do not pass this legislation, women are losing out on thousands of dollars they have rightfully earned. The wage discrepancy costs American women an average of $430,480 by the time they turn 65. For women of color, the injustice is even greater. On average across the country, Latinas earn 55 cents, and African American women earn 60 cents for every dollar earned by their white male counterparts. “Equal pay is not just good for women. It isn’t just the moral thing to do, it is the logical thing to do for business, for families and for the economy. When women succeed, America succeeds. More families than ever before depend on women’s wages. When we close the pay gap, we will be putting money into the pockets of middle-class American families, stimulating the economy, and investing in our children’s education. “We must continue fighting for policies that move us towards a more fair and equal society. We cannot rest until gender-based discrimination is a distant memory.”
3.30.2017	The Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act would recognize a scenic byway and historic transportation corridor through 2,400 square miles that includes the Cascade peaks, wilderness lakes and forests, as well as a network of roads, rails and trails. It includes farms and forests, historic sites, lakes, campgrounds, rivers and wildlife habitat. The area is home to 1.4 million residents in 28 cities and 1,600 miles of trails. The Mountains to Sound National Heritage Area could become the first such designation in the Pacific Northwest. Congress has designated 49 National Heritage Areas nationwide to promote local economic growth and tourism, and to preserve sites and landmarks with cultural and historical significance. “The recreation economy is one of the largest job creators. Protecting special places like the Mountains to Sound Greenway would help boost tourism to some of Washington state’s most scenic and historic landscapes,” Sen. Cantwell said. “I am proud to work with Sen. Murray, Reps. Reichert and Smith, and the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust to establish this National Heritage Area and build on nearly two decades of efforts to preserve our state’s natural landscape for future generations.” “No matter what the political climate, it’s so important we continue to push to preserve our most precious natural spaces – and I’m proud to continue this fight to protect the Mountains to Sound Greenway,” Sen. Murray said. “Outdoor recreation is a key part of Washington state’s economy, and this designation will draw even more tourists to appreciate our unique natural resources, and support local economic development from Ellensburg to Seattle and every community in between.” “Washington’s natural beauty attracts visitors from across the country and globe who want to experience our mountains, rivers, lakes, and forests,” Rep. Reichert said. “Living with these natural treasures in our backyard has not only taught us the importance of conservation, but have shown us being stewards of the land can also grow our local economy. With an already strong outdoor recreation and tourism industry, protecting the Mountains to Sound Greenway promises to create more jobs in our region, while preserving these valuable sites and landmarks for future generations to enjoy. I have been proud to work with a bipartisan group of Washington colleagues in both the Senate and the House on this initiative that benefits constituents across district and party lines.” “The Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area designation is critical to achieving a sustainable relationship between Washington state residents and nature in the Puget Sound Region,” Rep. Adam Smith said. “The diverse coalition of organizations, local Tribes, community members, as well as bicameral and bipartisan Congressional leaders supporting this effort, speaks to the value our community places on protecting our environment for generations to come.” National Heritage Areas are Congressional-designated partnerships between the National Park Service, states and local communities through which the Park Service supports local and state efforts to preserve natural resources and promote tourism. National Heritage Areas are not part of the National Park System. No federal regulations are imposed, and no private land is affected or acquired. Since 1991, the nonprofit Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust has worked to preserve the area’s scenic landscapes for recreation, education and conservation. More than 900,000 acres of land now are publicly-owned, including parks and forests such as Tiger Mountain, Snoqualmie Pass and Mount Si. Heritage Area designations are eligible for federal grants and can help draw financial contributions from state, local and private sources. A recent economic impact study indicates National Heritage Areas contribute $12.9 billion annually to the national economy and support 148,000 jobs, according to the Park Service. On average, Heritage Areas generate about $263 million in economic activity and support about 3,000 jobs, primarily through tourism and visitor spending. Other National Heritage Areas nationwide include: the Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area in Springfield, Illinois; the Tennessee Civil War National Heritage Area in Murfreesboro, Tennessee and the Baltimore National Heritage Area in Baltimore, Maryland. Heritage Area designations also help coordinate marketing and tourism promotion, such as developing websites, putting up highway signs to advertise sites, sponsoring festivals, and publishing brochures and tour maps. Heritage Areas also can help with assisting in the operation of museums and visitor centers. ###
3.29.2017	“Attorney General Jeff Sessions has made it clear that the Trump Administration does not respect local jurisdiction’s understanding of how best to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of their residents. The Trump Administration has threatened to revoke or withhold critical public safety funds from communities in a clear act of misguided retribution. “The grant funds Attorney General Sessions has threatened to ‘claw back’ from local jurisdictions support not only the ongoing efforts of agencies such as the Seattle Police Department to strengthen and diversity their ranks, but also the efforts of prosecutors to tackle horrific crimes such as labor and sex trafficking. Shutting the door on these initiatives simply because the Administration refuses to acknowledge established facts on immigration disrespects the men and women who work every day to keep us safe. “Local leaders in the Puget Sound region understand that ensuring the safety of our communities and protecting the rights of recent immigrants are goals that flatly do not conflict. Washington state should stand by our values and fight to keep families together.”
3.28.2017	“Congress should not undermine consumer’s privacy. Today, House Republicans voted to undo important privacy protections for internet users. This partisan vote takes away Americans’ choice about whether to allow their personal online information to be used for advertising and marketing purposes. “Your online information should remain yours unless you agree to share it; it should not be put up for sale without your consent.”
3.28.2017	For years, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) and its continued threat of sequestration have negatively impacted our economy, government, and harmed our nation. The Relief from Sequestration Act of 2017 is designed to repeal the sequestration mechanism in its entirety. This bill would end the threat of automatic, draconian cuts to important national priorities. It is apparent that the mechanism of sequestration is not effective or necessary to spur the creation of a comprehensive deficit reduction plan. In fact, the author of the 1987 law that first employed the sequester as an enforcement mechanism never intended for the sequester to be triggered; rather that only the threat of it be used to spur action and compromise. Clearly, it has failed in that regard. The Relief from Sequestration Act of 2017 would end years of harmful and unnecessary cuts to discretionary programs by eliminating the automatic across-the-board cuts that are triggered anytime a discretionary account goes beyond the BCA caps. “This bill does not deny the fact that we need a comprehensive, long-term deficit reduction deal. We absolutely do. This bill recognizes that discretionary spending accounts, and the economy, should no longer be held hostage by the threat of sequestration while Congress debates the larger revenue and mandatory spending changes that are fundamentally necessary,” said Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA). “We have a deficit problem that must be addressed, but we should not damage our economy and undermine national security in the process.” “We need a federal budget that will create jobs for struggling people, and will support stable growth in the economy that raises wages, helps ease the burden of putting food on the table, and ensures our nation doesn’t fall further behind countries that are investing in their future,” Rep. John Conyers (D-MI) said. “That is why I’m proud to join with my colleagues to put an end—once and for all—to the self-inflicted crises that the Sequester represents.” “It’s time to end the practice of indiscriminate, across-the-board budget cuts, which are fiscally irresponsible and harmful to our country and the services we provide to American families, veterans and small-business owners,” said Rep. Lujan Grisham (D-NM). “Instead, we need to pass a budget that creates jobs and provides stability to New Mexico working families and businesses, while reducing the deficit in a balanced and responsible way.” “Americans need Congress to make the strong investments in our economy that will keep it growing for years to come. Both Democrats and Republicans understand the need to work toward long-term deficit reduction, and a key part of that strategy is revenue generated by investing in creating good jobs and growing our economy,” Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) said. “Our bill will address this by finally ending sequestration and the devastating cuts that have held back our economy for too long.” “Working families need certainty and stability to plan and invest for the future. It’s time to stop budgeting from one manufactured crisis to the next, and work on bipartisan policies that will set the country on the right course through strategic investments in education, research, clean energy, job-training and infrastructure,” said Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA). “That’s why I’m honored to join my colleagues in introducing legislation to stop the harmful and indiscriminate cuts from sequestration.” “Sequestration is a kneejerk budgetary maneuver that has done little to reduce deficits and instead has done tremendous harm to the economy,” said Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA). “We need to make responsible investments without leaving American priorities hanging in the balance. Getting rid of sequestration allows us to focus on what really matters: serving the people.” Background Sequestration was originally manufactured to force Congress to make difficult decisions about deficit reduction. Unfortunately, Congress failed to find a solution to reduce our deficit and the devastating mechanism of sequestration took effect. Under sequestration, automatic and indiscriminate cuts were applied through fiscal year 2021, decimating discretionary spending. The sequester forestalled the sound planning needed for meaningful investments in national security, the workforce, transportation infrastructure, education, health care, public safety, housing, innovation, small business development, and many other facets of enduring national strength. These cuts have also had unacceptable and serious economic implications, hindering the recovery, and disrupting regular order in Congress. The solution must be to permanently end this misguided and ineffective policy.
3.24.2017	“Repealing the Affordable Care Act (ACA) is a mistake and would throw away the meaningful progress we have made towards increasing the quality and accessibility of affordable health care. There is undoubtedly much work still to be done to improve our nation’s health care system but I strongly disagree with Republicans’ continued efforts to repeal the law, and their attempt to eliminate essential health benefits for Americans and their families. “Republicans’ plans to repeal key benefits of the ACA in order to fulfill a flawed campaign promise would sacrifice the health and wellbeing of low-income, working, and older Americans, at the benefit of those who are wealthier. Today’s failed attempt at a vote, fueled by deep discord within the Republican caucus, shows their disturbing disconnect with the needs of the American people and with the realities and responsibilities of governing. “Health care policy is extraordinarily complex and difficult. It is never easy for the simple reason that demand for health care services is far more than the amount of money available to pay for it. Voting for the ACA was not an easy vote seven years ago. However, at the end of the day, supporting expanded access to health insurance for over 22 million people and voting to get rid of barriers that kept health care out of the reach of many working Americans was important enough to take that difficult vote and make the situation better. The American people deserve health care that is affordable and accessible to everyone. “Today laid bare that, for the last seven years, the Republicans have done little to develop a viable alternative to the ACA and have no clear plan to improve health care policy. They made up claims and misled Americans, all the while pretending they had the answer on health care. Today, by making their voices heard, the American people called Republicans’ bluff. “I hope that we can now come together and begin to work to improve health care policy for all.”
3.16.2017	“President Trump has outlined a fiscal agenda that will overwhelmingly benefit the wealthy, and will likely set our country’s recent economic progress back decades. Rather than focus on expanding broad-based economic opportunities for every American to ensure their health and well-being, President Trump has proposed a budget outline that would result in the largest cuts to discretionary federal programs and agencies in decades. “The economic vision presented today by the President ignores the budget realities that real Americans face. The President supports dramatic cuts to critical programs that help working American’s build a better life for their families, while erroneously stating we spend too much on international affairs. Cutting programs that protect our planet for future generations, in order to unnecessarily increase our nuclear weapons capability, shows how painfully disconnected this ‘skinny’ budget is from the needs of everyday Americans. “National security encompasses much more than defense. Increasing the defense budget at the expense of nondefense spending is unacceptable. The three pillars of diplomacy, development, and defense are absolutely essential to protecting the American people and our interests at home and abroad. These requested cuts to our foreign affairs budget show a profound lack of understanding of our approach to international engagement that has protected America and our allies, and are based on an isolationist worldview. Gutting diplomacy and development, while relying solely on military power abroad, would be devastating to our national security. Development programs that have been funded on a bipartisan basis for years are critical to our country's national security interests. “The President’s budget outline should reflect an interest in making government work better for everyone, not a desire to limit the government’s ability to improve the lives of working Americans. In releasing today’s Budget Blueprint, the President has followed through with his reckless campaign promise to slash important government programs that give hard-working Americans the tools they need to provide for their families and build a strong America.”
3.14.2017	“I am strongly opposed to the Republican plan to replace the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), also known as ‘Obamacare.’ This legislation, known as the American Health Care Act (AHCA), introduced earlier this month, would take health insurance away from millions of people, hurt low-income and older Americans, and create considerable uncertainty about health care and insurance. “I am very concerned about the potential impact of the AHCA. Despite promises made by House Republicans, individuals with pre-existing conditions and others who gained healthcare under the ACA will be at risk of the quality of their coverage being reduced or losing health insurance entirely. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that 14 million more people would be uninsured in just the first year of enactment of the AHCA but that 24 million in total are estimated to lose coverage over the next ten years. Insurance companies would be allowed to charge higher premiums for older Americans as well as those who lapse in coverage. It would cut $170 billion from the Medicare Trust Fund, putting at risk coverage for 57 million Americans. Additionally, the AHCA eliminates the ACA’s Medicaid expansion; which has extended coverage to over 59,000 constituents of the Ninth Congressional District of Washington. Many more individuals could also be negatively impacted if, as many fear, this legislation upends the broader health care and insurance marketplace; leading to higher costs and reduced access to care for all. The Republican plan benefits those who are young, healthy, or those who are wealthy at the sacrifice of those who are not. “I supported the passage and enactment of the ACA in 2010. It is one of the most important steps taken in many years to reform health care and health insurance, as well as to address serious problems with our health care system. Prior to the enactment of the ACA, health care costs were rapidly increasing, government budgets were straining under health costs, and many patients, including those with pre-existing conditions, were unable to access affordable health coverage. We needed action on these tough issues. “Repealing the ACA would take us back to a time where millions of Americans were uninsured. The ACA is not perfect and we still have a long way to go to improve our health care system to increase access and bring costs down. I support addressing those provisions of the health care law that are burdensome to individuals and problematic for businesses. “We should not, however, repeal the entire law or weaken its core tenets. We simply cannot revert to an old health care system that allows costs to increase unchecked, insures too few, and drains our economy while providing us too little in return. “I will work to ensure that health care remains affordable and accessible to everyone. Eliminating the ACA would hurt the millions of Americans who depend on the many positive aspects of the law and could leave our health care system in a state of disarray and dysfunction. I will do everything in my power as a Member of Congress to protect our most vulnerable citizens and access to affordable and quality health care coverage.”
3.14.2017	“I have been a strong supporter of the State of Israel and a comprehensive peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinian territories for a long time. I believe our partnership with Israel and its people is critical and in our national security interests. I have been troubled by the lack of progress on the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, from the unresolved and unhelpful settlements and lack of recognition of Israel's right to exist, to the violence that has taken innocent lives on both sides and has unfortunately set back the path towards peace. For the Israelis and Palestinians to reach a lasting peace, we must have persistent, high-level U.S. engagement with both Israel and the Palestinians in order to build such peace and arrive at a two state solution. “I also believe that both Israelis and Palestinians have the right to live in peace and security. Since its creation in 1948, Israel has been under constant threat of attack. It is critical that we continue to support Israel’s qualitative military edge and ability to defend itself. I am also sympathetic to the plight of Palestinians and believe that, in order for there to be long-term security and peace in the region; they too must have a state of their own. I know that the overwhelming majority of the people in Israel and Palestine want to live and raise their families in peace. The only way to reach a two state solution is for Israel and the Palestinian people to directly negotiate and reach an agreement together. “It is for those reasons, that I am troubled by and oppose the nomination of Mr. David Friedman to serve as the next U.S. Ambassador to Israel. Mr. Friedman’s experience as President Trump’s bankruptcy lawyer does not qualify him to lead diplomatic efforts to resolve one of the most complicated matters in the world. Indeed, the last ten U.S. Ambassadors—in both Republican and Democratic Administrations—had prior United States Government experience. Apart from having no experience in diplomacy, Mr. Friedman has made a pattern of deeply concerning comments which disparaged fellow Americans, equating some of them as Nazi sympathizers and questioning their support for Israel. While reasonable people may disagree with tactics or strategy in reaching a two-state solution, Mr. Friedman’s verbal assaults demonstrate a blind spot in how to constructively engage with those one may disagree and calls into question his ability to conduct diplomacy. Mr. Friedman’s nomination is further complicated by the fact that in his opening statement, he made no mention of the two-state solution. Additionally, reports that Mr. Friedman intends to live and work in Jerusalem run the risk of unnecessarily inflaming an already difficult situation and demonstrates the lack of tact required to resolve complex issues. “I believe the United States must remain committed to a two-state solution that leads to a secure Israel for the Jewish people and the creation of a Palestinian state for the Palestinian people. While it is the Senate’s choice whether to confirm Mr. Friedman, I believe our nation would be better served if President Trump nominated a proven diplomat, fully committed to Israel’s security as a democratic and Jewish state and a two-state solution.”
3.6.2017	“President Trump's latest executive order on refugees and visa restrictions is reckless and runs contrary to America’s founding principles. The President’s second attempt at a travel ban —after his previous order was found to be unconstitutional by two courts—shows a continued disregard for American values and a remarkable willingness to threaten our national security. “Our existing standards for those seeking refuge already require extremely thorough vetting of all refugees. Banning all refugees and specifically targeting Muslims goes against our values and strengthens extremist groups like ISIS by making America appear anti-Muslim. This malicious executive order will help recruit more terrorists and encourage extremists to attack America, damaging our relationships around the world and making America less safe.”
3.2.2017	Although the facts are still coming in, the recent revelations surrounding Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his alleged contacts with Russian officials reinforce the legitimate need for a special prosecutor. There needs to be clarity on what and who the Trump Administration officials spoke to within the Russian government and the topic of those conversations. The President also needs to be transparent with the American people about his personal and business dealings with Russia which is why he should release his tax returns as every other President has done. I agree with Minority Leader Pelosi’s call for the Attorney General’s resignation. It is clear that the Attorney General is unfit to serve as the head of the Justice Department, nor is he in a position to oversee the widely substantiated evidence of Russia’s interference in our democratic process.
3.1.2017	The Members of Congress joined in sending a letter to the Department of Justice (DOJ), as well as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to share a deep concern with increasing number of alarming bomb threats targeting Jewish Community Centers in over thirty states, sowing fear and anxiety in our communities. The letter requests that in the wake of these threats, as well as the desecration of Jewish cemeteries, the DOJ and FBI must tirelessly investigate these matters, and prosecute all offenders to the fullest extent possible. “A clear message must be sent that hatred and bigotry have no place in America, and they will not be tolerated,” the members of Congress wrote. “We stand with the Jewish Community both here in Washington state and across the country following a disturbing number of threats against Jewish community centers in recent months. Our community will continue to remain one that values diversity, and promotes respect for people of all races and religions.” The Members look forward to continued, regular dialogue with both the DOJ and FBI to ensure that they can continue to keep their constituents informed. Read the full letter HERE, text below. Dear Attorney General Sessions and Director Comey, We write to you regarding the increasing number of alarming bomb threats targeting Jewish Community Centers in over 30 states, sowing fear and anxiety in our communities. These malicious, deliberate, and clearly coordinated attacks have singled out Jewish schools and gathering places, endangering the lives of children, and we seek to partner with you in helping to combat this rash of hateful, criminal acts. While we understand that your investigation is ongoing, we are formally requesting to be briefed on the efforts of the Department of Justice (DOJ), as well as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), to resolve and address this crisis. We encourage both agencies to employ all legal avenues and resources at your disposal to stop these crimes. The safety and well-being of Americans is of the upmost importance, and with more than 100 threats having been received by the writing of this letter, we are extremely concerned that this represents an increase in anti-Semitic activity across the country. Anti-Semitic attacks occupy the largest percentage of religiously rooted hate crime, and they have been increasing in number over the last several years. The Pacific Northwest in particular has been witness to horrific attacks against the Jewish Community, including the July 2006 shooting at the Seattle Jewish Federation, resulting in the tragic death of one individual. In the wake of these threats, as well as the desecration of Jewish cemeteries, we ask that the DOJ and FBI tirelessly investigate these matters, and prosecute all offenders to the fullest extent possible. A clear message must be sent that hatred and bigotry have no place in America, and they will not be tolerated. We greatly appreciate the hard work and dedication put forward by the agents, investigators, and prosecutors in your organizations. We look forward to continued, regular dialogue with you to ensure that we can continue to keep our constituents informed. Sincerely,
2.28.2017	"The opening lines of the President's speech belatedly expressed concern about the rising anti-semitism and other acts of bigotry that have occurred in our country in recent weeks. I am glad he made such a strong statement, but the rest of his speech returned to the old empty promises that offer almost no specifics for how he might achieve the goals laid out in his lofty rhetoric. "I am unconvinced that now five weeks into his term, President Trump has a sufficient understanding of the challenges that working families face. We must create broad-based opportunities for all, not just the wealthiest. "The President’s Budget blueprint released this week shows a disturbing disconnect from facts and fiscal responsibility. The proposed budget would destroy critical services and investments to American families, local communities, and endanger our national security. These catastrophic cuts will hurt the progress our country has made. "As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I know that the President’s budget proposal and his policies are irresponsible and threaten our national security. The reported cuts to diplomacy and development – key pillars that are critical to supporting our national security – will make Americans less safe, harm our standing around the world, and feed the anti-American narrative of terrorist groups like Daesh. President Trump's reckless, ignorant understanding of world affairs is placing our country in jeopardy. "I am proud to represent a district in a state with a long history of opening its doors and providing equal opportunity to those seeking a safe haven and a chance at a better life. We are a nation of immigrants and refugees, and that our diversity continues to make us stronger. Immigration is not an obstacle, but rather an opportunity that enriches our society, fuels our economic competitiveness, and helps to create additional American jobs by attracting needed workers, high-skilled entrepreneurs, and investors. Our immigration laws must be reformed in a constructive and humane manner, which keeps families together and is consistent with American values. "I have heard from thousands of constituents in the district I represent about their deep concerns with the direction President Trump has taken our country in his first month in office. I myself remain deeply concerned with the attacks on our American values that we are seeing come from our highest political office. Moving forward, I will continue to work with my colleagues to fight for policies that protect our working families, provide for good-paying jobs, preserves our environment for future generations, and brings our country together."
2.23.2017	“I want to congratulate Friends of the Children (FOTC) for their tireless work towards breaking the cycle of generational poverty through exemplary community work to help our region’s most vulnerable populations,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “The Corporation for National and Community Service has recognized the critical services FOTC offers, and has chosen to support FOTC as they continue to invest in our children’s future through programs like their One Child at a Time Expansion Project. Many of the students served by FOTC receive reduced price lunch, have parents who are incarcerated, were born to a teen parent, or are living within the foster care system. Nonprofits like FOTC help to ensure a brighter future for our youth.” The Social Innovation Fund (SIF) employs advanced metrics to measure the effectiveness of the programs it provides funds to, in order to ensure that the nonprofits are constantly growing and changing to adapt to changing community issues. FOTC Seattle was selected in recognition that they have built positive relationships with key partners in the local schools and with local child welfare offices. In its 16 years, FOTC, has established a proven record of responding to the unique issues of the 9th district’s at-risk youth. The SIF award will support FOTC Seattle in their goal to double the number of children served over the next four years, an increase of 128 youth. FOTC Seattle will enroll 32 youth each of the four years of the grant award: Half of those youth each year will be selected from the foster care system, and half will be kindergarteners with the highest number of risk factors coming from high poverty schools.
2.17.2017	Under the Executive Order titled “Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States,” Mr. Ramirez should not have been a priority for detention by ICE. The letter seeks clarification of the changes to ICE’s enforcement priorities and the practices of ICE agents at the doors and in the homes of immigrants. “We expect due process and facts to guide government agency’s actions,” the members of Congress wrote. “But what we have seen from this administration is repeated falsehoods about immigrants and refugees, and suspicion and allegations rule the day. This is unacceptable, and we demand better.” That America may break its promise to DACA recipients, who came out of the shadows to sign up for the program with the understanding that they would not be targeted for detention and deportation if they followed the law, is of particular concern to the members of Congress. Further, the Senators and Representatives note that immigration raids do not succeed in creating safe communities. “In nearly all circumstances, engaging in immigration raids to detain people is unnecessary and damaging to our communities,” wrote the members of Congress. Specifically, the letter requests: A detailed description of any change in ICE policy since January 19, 2017, that allows for ICE agents to detain a DACA recipient, and under what conditions. A detailed description of how ICE conducts oversight of its enforcement actions, including as it pertains to DACA recipients who were detained “collaterally” to other enforcement targets. A copy of any written policies or standard practices ICE agents use to guide their actions when they are presented with legal documents by individuals in the home of a person who is the target of an ICE raid. A description of how the Executive Order pertaining to interior enforcement will be implemented by local ICE agents as it relates to DACA recipients, and what guidance local ICE agents were provided on this matter. A copy of any policies used by ICE when issuing press statements pertaining to allegations against a detainee that are not proven in a Federal criminal court or State criminal court. A copy of the letter can be found below. February 17, 2017 The Honorable John F. Kelly Secretary of Homeland Security 3801 Nebraska Ave., NW Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Kelly, We write to express concern that the Executive Order titled “Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States” seems to expand enforcement priorities so broadly that even Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients could be susceptible. It appears that local U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents arrested a recipient of the DACA program in error. We want to inquire whether ICE has changed its enforcement practices pertaining to DACA recipients. We are also deeply concerned the Department may have altered the procedures and practices of ICE agents at the doors and in the homes of immigrants. This is clearly demonstrated by the detainment of Mr. Daniel Ramirez Medina near Seattle, a recipient of DACA whose attorney states there is no apparent reason he should have been detained. We are particularly concerned about Mr. Ramirez’s case and would like a full briefing at the earliest possible date on all actions and evidence that led ICE to detain Mr. Ramirez after learning he is a DACA recipient. Young people applied for the DACA program with the promise that applying would not result in immigration enforcement actions as long as they followed the law. DACA recipients have been carefully vetted by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services and granted permission to remain in the United States and authorization to work, a clear indication DACA recipients are not an enforcement priority. Moreover, in nearly all circumstances engaging in immigration raids to detain people is unnecessary and damaging to our communities. These raids wreak havoc in immigrant communities across the country. Mr. Ramirez’s case, and the lack of clear communication regarding his arrest, will only cause more anxiety and confusion among immigrant communities in Washington state and across the United States. We expect due process and facts to guide government agency’s actions. But what we have seen from this administration is repeated falsehoods about immigrants and refugees, and suspicion and allegations rule the day. This is unacceptable, and we demand better. We request that you provide to our staff: • A detailed description of any change in ICE policy since January 19, 2017, that allows for ICE agents to detain a DACA recipient, and under what conditions. • A detailed description of how ICE conducts oversight of its enforcement actions, including as it pertains to DACA recipients who were detained “collaterally” to other enforcement targets. • A copy of any written policies or standard practices ICE agents use to guide their actions when they are presented with legal documents by individuals in the home of a person who is the target of an ICE raid. • A description of how the Executive Order pertaining to interior enforcement will be implemented by local ICE agents as it relates to DACA recipients, and what guidance local ICE agents were provided on this matter. • A copy of any policies used by ICE when issuing press statements pertaining to allegations against a detainee that are not proven in a Federal criminal court or State criminal court. We are deeply troubled by the lack of communication and transparency in ICE’s handling of this matter and expect a prompt reply to this letter. Sincerely, ###
2.15.2017	“Any attempt by the Trump Administration to reverse course on long-standing protections afforded under the Deferred Actions for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is completely unacceptable. To deport those acting in accordance with DACA flies in the face of American ideals, and shuts the door on members of our communities who have done no harm. Anyone facing deportation proceedings must be afforded appropriate access to counsel, and their due process rights protected. “Under the Obama Administration, I raised serious concerns about Immigration and Customs Enforcement activities and called for transparency about the agency’s actions. I strongly believe that our immigration policy can be conducted in a way that keeps families together, benefits the economy, and protects the rights of the vulnerable. The Trump Administration must keep Congress updated about the goals and objectives of these “enforcement actions,” and well as the process and procedure by which they are being carried out. “I call upon the Department of Homeland Security, as well as U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to clarify their standards on DACA recipients. Senselessly scaring communities through a lack of transparency and strong-arm tactics is shameful.”
2.14.2017	Congressman Adam Smith visited Compass Veterans Center on Friday, February 10th, to deliver valentines made by local students through his office’s second annual Valentines for Vets program. Congressman Smith wants to make sure that our veterans receive recognition and thanks for their service around Valentine’s Day. On Monday, February 13th, Congressman Smith’s staff delivered additional valentines to the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) of Washington and Seattle Veterans Affairs (VA) Hospital. Students from eighteen elementary schools participated in the Valentines for Vets program this year, making over 1,000 valentines for local veterans. This outreach effort wouldn’t be possible without the support of our local students and teachers. This annual program continues to be an engaging activity to help teach young people about the role of the members of the armed services and the sacrifices they make for us. Participating Schools: Hamlin-Robinson Elementary Wing Luke Elementary Gregory Heights Elementary Mount View Elementary Beacon Hill International Elementary McMichen Heights Elementary Southern Heights Elementary Cedarhurst Elementary Dunlap Elementary Sherwood Forest Elementary Neeley O’Brien Elementary Bowl Lake Elementary Wildwood Elementary Hilltop Elementary Green Gables Elementary Cascades Elementary Mirror Lake Elementary Lake Grove Elementary See more photos here: https://goo.gl/YKA9mp
2.9.2017	“President Trump’s executive order banning refugees is in clear contradiction of America values. I am pleased to see that a three-judge panel for the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the ruling that temporarily blocked President Trump’s executive order. His reckless actions regarding refugees and visas—and insulting a federal judge—are contrary to America’s founding principles and threaten our nation’s security. I applaud the State of Washington for bringing this lawsuit, and I will continue to advocate for smart, thoughtful policies that advance our national interests and live up to our ideals.”
2.7.2017	“I applaud the commitment by VA Under Secretary Shulkin to send a team of management improvement specialists to the Seattle Veterans Affairs Hospital within 60 days. This pledge is the result of months of hard work, phone calls, and coordination between myself, my staff, and Dr. Shulkin. I shared with him the alarming stories from veterans in and around my District, and I fought to ensure that not only were their voices heard, but that their concerns were brought to the attention of the proper officials. Dr. Shulkin’s commitment to sending this “Tiger Team” is the first step of what I hope will be many towards better outcomes for our veterans. The work of this VA team to improve hiring, retention, and leadership at the facility is badly overdue, and I look forward to working with them in coordination with VSOs in our community to make impactful changes.”
2.3.2017	zing: border-box; margin: 0px 0px 14.5px; color: rgb(24, 57, 86); font-family: Roboto, sans-serif; font-size: 18px; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">“Our interpreter was like a brother to us. He risked his life, his family’s life, so we could actually work over there, and we need to get him here.” –Robert Morisseau, U.S. Marine Corps veteran “If anyone deserves to be an American, it’s our interpreter—since he sacrificed it all for a place he’s never even set foot in.” –Ramiro “Ram” Lopez, U.S. Marine Corps veteran “The bravest person I’ve ever known went by the nickname Suge Knight…. A Sudanese Muslim, Suge served as my scout platoon’s interpreter during our deployment to Iraq in 2007 and 2008, and he went on every patrol and mission with us, no matter the circumstances.” –Matt Gallagher, U.S. Army veteran “We made a promise. We are crippling ourselves in a potential future conflict by having future local nationals refuse to help us because of our handling of the current SIV situation.” –Andy Sliva, U.S. Marine Corps veteran “Our Afghan interpreters are now facing the risk of life, liberty—their families are in danger. All because they did the right thing. ... And now we’re abandoning them.” –James Miller, U.S. Marine Corps veteran “She inspires me. … I’m so excited to see what she does for our country and the world.” –Kelsey Campbell, U.S. Air Force veteran, speaking about her Iraqi interpreter who is now resettled in the U.S. “Sam and Ford both have incredible stories of early ambition, self sacrifice, and service to two countries who have been a war for quite some time. They were childhood friends and saw an opportunity with the invasion of 03’ to do something for their country [Iraq]. They both signed up to be interpreters for U.S. forces almost immediately, one of them was only 17 years old at the time. I met the two of them in 2007 during my deployment to Rutbah, Iraq. Upon meeting them it was obvious they have been living with Marines for years as they had all of the gear and knew all the lingo—including how to insert an explicative in every possible sentence (as Marines do.)” “I cannot imagine how different how raids would have been had we not had them with us. There is a lot of uncertainty in dynamic situations but they provided the clarity we desperately needed. They had a sense of the area and always knew long before us if something wasn’t right or when to be suspicious of others. They were not always allowed to be armed but took it in stride. They had to sleep and eat in the filthiest conditions but never complained. They were paid even less than us and still, we never heard a word of it. “I stayed in touch with both Sam and Ford and was fortunate enough to meet with them in Chicago years after I got out of the military. One is now a U.S. citizen and the other a green card holder, both were going to school. It goes without saying that these men saved American lives, they left their families for years to work with us, and deserve to have a chance at the American dream. For they are everything that make us great.” —Doug Jackson, Marine Corps veteran “When I was in the army, when I put on the uniform, they treated me as a brother.” –Former Iraqi interpreter for the U.S. Army Othman Al Janabi “We made a promise and we have to keep it. We are weaker if we don’t keep our promise to our allies.” –Joe Jenkins, U.S. Marine Corps veteran “I would like to see the interpreters who were beside me on every patrol I went on, get what they were promised.” –Colt Smith, U.S. Marine Corps veteran
2.2.2017	“The absolute hypocrisy of Senate Republicans calling for ‘regular order’ to fill the Supreme Court vacancy after more than a year is beyond belief. In February of last year, President Obama carried out his constitutional obligation in nominating Judge Merrick Garland, who was denied even the common courtesy of a meeting with Republican leadership in the Senate – let alone a hearing. It seems the Senate Majority Leader has been struck with a sudden case of memory loss, as he now miraculously believes it’s imperative to quickly fulfill the Senate’s explicit Constitutional responsibility to review the new President’s nominee. The appointment of a Supreme Court Justice is an infrequent event of major significance in American government and it is inexcusable that the door was slammed shut on President Obama’s nominee. “President Trump cannot continue to put campaign promises ahead of bringing together a divided nation. In nominating Judge Gorsuch yesterday, the President has chosen an individual with an alarming history of judicial activism. Gorsuch’s remarks on the Citizens United v. FEC case are serious cause for concern. He would be wise to remember that corporations are not people, and money is not free speech. Furthermore, the opinion he argued in the Burwell v. Hobby Lobby case shows a deeply disturbing willingness to allow extreme latitude in cases where corporate interests have usurped individual rights. “Senators swear an oath to uphold and defend the Constitution. Although I anticipate Senate Republicans will move quickly in the confirmation process on this nominee, I understand if my Democratic colleagues in the Senate want to afford Judge Gorsuch the same level of courtesy that was afforded Judge Garland.”
2.1.2017	“It is a privilege to see young students like Jessica and Max demonstrating such a commitment to strengthening our communities. Their ability to complete challenging personal goals demonstrates determination and focus. They should be extremely proud of their accomplishments. “To earn the Bronze Congressional Award Medal, Jessica volunteered more than 400 hours, primarily with Mercer Island Youth and Family Services, where she is a member of the youth advisory board, and at the Seattle Humane Society, where she is a teen leader. Max earned his Silver metal and his Eagle Scout Badge by volunteering extensively with various environmental organizations, including Earth Corps. He also volunteered Seattle Music Partners, where he provided trombone lessons to students at Leschi Elementary School. In addition to their public service, both Max and Jessica set and achieved lofty personal development and fitness goals. I look forward to seeing the contributions both students will have to their community as future leaders. I wish both Max and Jessica the best as they continue to work toward the Gold Congressional Award Medal, the government’s highest honor for the country’s most ambitious youths.” The Congressional Award was established in 1979 in order to recognize initiative, achievement, and service in young Americans. Since its inception, participating teens have logged more than 7.5 million volunteer hours.
1.31.2017	“President Trump continues to sign vague and ill-conceived executive orders that have clearly not been properly considered in a rush to fulfill campaign promises. The executive order related to regulation signed this week is just another gimmick under the guise of reducing regulations. It arbitrarily requires that for every regulation passed, two have to be eliminated. This would wreak havoc on our regulatory system and hurt American businesses that are faced with an unpredictable and unsound regulatory environment. The very first indication that this order was alarmingly unclear and confusing is that the White House itself had to quickly issue a subsequent clarification to explain that independent agencies were exempt from it. “I support a regulatory environment that focuses on the long term needs of our country, protects the American people from harmful environmental impacts, financial fraud, and unethical labor practices, while allowing us to transform our economy and create the jobs needed to compete globally in the future. A well-functioning agency rulemaking process is critical to that goal. President Trump’s regulatory executive order does not move us closer to that goal, it does just the opposite.”
1.30.2017	“This arrangement could hardly be more ominous for the U.S. national security decision-making process and the security of our friends and allies. The moves laid out in the National Security Presidential Memorandum take an unprecedented step to politicize the NSC. By placing a political operative at the table for all meetings, it concentrates power in the hands of Steve Bannon, an ultra-right-wing political strategist who wants to take national security policy in a direction that will undermine global security, strengthen our enemies, and shred American values. This goes beyond the long-standing practice of including the President’s Chief of Staff. At the same time, the memorandum downgrades the role that objective intelligence and military advice will play in the president’s decision-making process. We should not be going down this road. Congress will have no choice but to question the integrity of the NSC’s recommendations going forward.”
1.28.2017	“President Trump's Friday afternoon executive order banning refugees is already wreaking havoc on countless individuals here in the United States and creating lasting repercussions for our country's international stature. Aside from the fact that the United States already has a very extensive vetting process for refugees, the White House's failure to issue guidance for the Department of Homeland Security, airport employees and airlines across the world is causing chaos, fear, and potentially irreparable harm to our international alliances. Legal scholars are already raising serious legal questions about whether the President's ban is even constitutional. “In directing the Department of Homeland Security to indefinitely deny Syrian refugees from entering the United States, as well as callously barring all refugees from the rest of the world for a minimum of 120 days, the President has chosen to act in direct contrast to our nation’s proud history of helping those in need. The fact remains that there have been no fatal terror attacks in the United States by immigrants from the seven nations identified in the President's executive order. “Mr. Trump's disturbing lack of knowledge of the current vetting processes and his complete disregard for American values is both disturbing and dangerous. If we are to succeed in the fight against Islamic extremists, we must make it clear that our fight is not against the Muslim religion. We need our Muslim allies now, perhaps more than ever. The President's executive action will only lead to a clash of civilizations and write a chapter of history America will be ashamed of.”
1.27.2017	“President Trump's reckless executive order on refugees and visa restrictions is contrary to America’s founding principles and threatens our nation's security. The President has chosen to act in direct contrast to our nation’s proud history of helping those in need. President Trump's actions will only create divisions within America, stoke fear and hate, and help recruit more terrorists and extremists to attack America, as well as our partners and friends. “Refugees--many of them women and children--already undergo an extremely comprehensive and thorough U.S. Government vetting process before being admitted, including scrutiny by the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the State Department, intelligence agencies, and others. Applicants for this status are held to the highest level of security screening through which we evaluate travelers or immigrants to the United States, and the process typically takes between 18-24 months. If U.S. security agencies cannot verify details of a potential refugee’s story, that individual is not allowed to enter the United States. “The fact that refugees want to make the United States their new home should be a source of pride for us. Even as President Trump threatens our principles in the short term, American values will prevail in the end.”
1.26.2017	“President Trump has failed to show that he understands the difference between a presidential campaign and the serious business of governing. To solve the challenging problems the President will undoubtedly face, he should review the facts, as well as engage in pragmatic conversation and thoughtful debate. President Trump’s current approach to governance, reliant on gimmicks and sound bites, seems doomed to fail from the beginning. “Any successful government or business leader understands that forcing indiscriminate cuts and hiring freezes on no merits-- other than to fulfill a misguided campaign promise-- is the wrong approach. This across-the-board hiring freeze only serves to undermine the efficiency and effectiveness of our Federal government, create uncertainty for our economy, and impose untold impacts on both Washington state and the country. “This incredibly short-sighted move to bar federal hiring will have an enormous impact on the care of our nation’s veterans, denying them access to essential care and resources. As recently as this past fall, the Department of Veterans Affairs had a staggering 45,000 job openings nationwide. With an average of more than 20 veterans taking their own lives each day, President Trump has decided to slam the door shut on critical mental health care providers, physicians, and other staff from being hired to help former service members get the care they need. The VA Puget Sound Healthcare System in Seattle is not spared from this, and is still without a permanent director for the foreseeable future. This rash move is an embarrassment. “As if to justify the freeze, the Trump Administration has alluded to a dramatic expansion of the federal workforce in recent years. In reality, the Bureau of Labor Statistics confirms a very different set of facts. In December 2016, there were 2.8 million employees on the federal payroll. This is a 3 percent increase since May 2014. In comparison, the total civilian workforce, excluding federal employees, grew by about 4.9 percent between May 2014 and December 2016. In truth, the number of federal employees is approximately the same now, 2.8 million, as the number when President Barack Obama took office, 2.79 million. Even under the Administration of Republican President Ronald Reagan, federal employment never dipped as low as it is today. Mr. Trump should check the veracity of his talking points.”
1.25.2017	“The immigration system in the United States is broken and needs to be reformed. Building unnecessary walls, attacking local law enforcement by threatening grant funding, demanding costly mass deportation, and damaging relationships with international partners is misguided and reprehensible. Instead, we must have a clear, humane and legal way for those who seek to come to our country to flee violence and instability, or seek new opportunities, to build a better life in the United States. “I agree that a secure border is important for our national security. Contrary to the inflammatory rhetoric that President Trump chose to espouse during his campaign, our southern border is more secure today than it has been in decades. From 2006 to 2016, the United States drastically increased our border security budget, which has contributed to the fact that we have had zero net immigration from Mexico for the last three years. The United States has taken responsibility for our border security, and any claims that Mexico should or will pay for a wall is not only foolish but illustrates the President's disturbing ignorance when it comes to foreign affairs. “I am dedicated to fixing our immigration system. A comprehensive solution must include immediate changes to our inhumane and costly private immigration detention facilities that lack proper safety oversight. Allowing immigrants to become productive members of our society will only strengthen our communities, our economy, and our country's future. I applaud our region’s local mayors and Governor Inslee for stating clearly that Washington state will remain a safe haven for those in search of safety. Our local leaders understand that maintaining safe communities and protecting the rights of recent immigrants are do not conflict with one another. “In Congress, I have strongly advocated for deportation relief, reforms to our immigration detention policies, and for comprehensive immigration reform that provides justice and equity for all people, regardless of where they were born. I join my colleagues in saying unequivocally that Washington state should stand by our values and fight to keep families together.”
1.24.2017	“In reinstating the Global Gag Rule as one of his first executive orders, President Donald Trump has undone years of progress. International family planning programs are very important for fostering manageable and healthy families around the world. By supporting international family planning efforts, we can help families around the world avoid extreme poverty, lack of access to health care, educational, and economic opportunities. Even without this step backwards, U.S. funds are already prohibited from being used to perform or promote abortion services abroad by the Helms Amendment to the 1973 U.S. Foreign Assistance Act. “I am deeply disappointed that only a day after the 44th Anniversary of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision that upheld a woman’s right to choose, President Trump has shown a flagrant disregard for women’s health across the world by limiting free speech and access to family planning services.”
1.16.2017	“Today, I join in celebrating the life and the achievements of Martin Luther King, Jr. and honoring Dr. King’s dream of a nation where individuals are not judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character. “While we have not yet achieved Dr. King’s full vision of equal rights and opportunities for every American, we have come a long way from when Dr. King spoke to our country from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. As we continue our work to build a better future for all Americans, we must remember Dr. King’s message of transformative racial and economic justice. Dr. King’s legacy inspires us each to do our individual part to create broad-based opportunities for all and battle inequality throughout our society.”
1.6.2017	“I voted in favor of H.Res. 11, although I have ongoing concerns about the resolution. At the end of the day, I fully support Israel. As one of our strongest allies, Israel has been under threat since its creation, and the multi-faceted relationship we share with the Israelis requires our steadfast support. “My concerns stem from my deep apprehensions that are shared by many Israelis. Namely, that Israel’s expanded settlements have made a two-state solution much more difficult. At the same time, Palestinians have taken steps that have made it hard to achieve peace in the region. Continued violence against Israel is a serious obstacle to peace. The Palestinians refuse to engage in direct negotiations with Israel and opt to go to the United Nations, leading to a more one-sided approach. Many also refuse to recognize Israel’s right to exist and their legitimate security concerns. “Looking ahead, a very real issue is the number of Israelis - including at times, Prime Minister Netanyahu - who push Israel down a path that seems to make a two-state solution impossible. Without a legitimate Palestinian state, Israel will control the West Bank. If that were to happen, Israel would either allow Palestinians to vote, and cease to be a Jewish state; or they will not permit Palestinians to vote and would cease to be a democratic state. Neither of these outcomes will lead to peace. Both Palestinians and Israelis must recognize the imperative for a two-state solution. Without it, all we will get is the violence and instability the region has suffered for generations.”
12.19.2016	“Prior to the election of Donald Trump, Presidents have historically removed themselves from business dealings to avoid even the appearance of conflicts of interest. President-elect Trump’s lack of concern for real or perceived conflicts of interest through the business he inherited is unprecedented and deeply troubling. Following his election, Donald Trump said he would separate himself from his business. He has failed to do so. His decision has raised immediate ethical and legal issues that will only serve to distract from his responsibilities as the President of the United States. “Our country deserves to know how the President-elect will handle his business conflicts. Unfortunately, because the President-elect has not released his taxes, as promised, we don’t fully know the extent to which his business dealings could impact his Presidency. By choosing to postpone a Press Conference originally planned for December 15th, the President-elect has shown he is unwilling to face very legitimate questions about how he will lead our country without the danger posed by conflicts of interest. “Before his inauguration, Trump must prove his commitment to transparency, and explain how he plans to completely separate himself from his business dealings. Trump has assured the American people that he will cut ties with his businesses because ‘the Presidency is a far more important task,’ and I plan to do everything that I can to hold him to that promise.”
12.13.2016	“All Americans should be deeply concerned by the reports that Russian agencies have interfered with a U.S. election. As Speaker Ryan noted, ‘any foreign intervention in our elections is entirely unacceptable.’ “The first duty of the United States government is to safeguard the American people and the integrity of our free society from attacks by foreign adversaries. Cyberattacks on our political institutions are direct threats to their integrity and are just as menacing as attacks on our economic, physical, and military infrastructure. “Given the gravity of these unprecedented attacks by a foreign state, we need a congressional investigation that is truly bipartisan, that is comprehensive, that will not be restricted by jurisdictional lines, and that will give the American people a complete and full accounting of what happened consistent with safeguarding our national security.”
12.13.2016	“In nominating ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson for Secretary of State, the President-elect has chosen an individual whose company opposed efforts to sanction Russia while also receiving an award from Russian President Vladimir Putin. This nomination raises critical questions about the manner in which the President-elect intends to lead our nation. As the President-elect formulates policy and considers nominees for positions in his Administration, it is critical that the fundamental standards of our system of government are met and respected. The incoming Administration and those who serve it must demonstrate an absolute commitment to the highest ethical standards, pose no real or perceived conflicts of interest, be completely transparent and open on their prior, current, and possible future dealings. “The next Secretary of State should be tasked with leading the interagency on a cohesive, thoughtful foreign policy that advances our national security. Given Tillerson’s expansive potential for conflicts of interest, I am encouraged to see that a growing number of Senators with national security expertise have also expressed concerns with the nomination. There must be a full bi-partisan review and vetting of the President-elect’s nominees by the U.S. Senate.”
12.8.2016	“To ensure the continued operation of the federal government, I voted in favor of the Continuing Resolution, also known as the CR. This legislation extends funding levels for the federal government through April 28, 2017. Aside from necessary government funding, the bill also contains critical funding for the people of Flint, Michigan, the 21st Century Cures Act, and resources to prevent the continued rise in opioid abuse. “I am concerned that Congress, under Republican leadership, has continued to bypass the regular budget process by failing to enact appropriations bills. Funding our government by continuing resolutions undermines our national security and the economic health of our country. The CR is problematic for two reasons. First, the funding provided by this measure is short term, in this case less than six months, which creates a fiscal cliff in April and prevents federal agencies and outside stakeholders from planning ahead or operating in optimal fashion. The second problem presented by using a CR instead of the regular appropriations process is that all CRs extend the funding levels from the previous year. Forcing agencies to live with last year’s budget prevents the completion of past initiatives and hampers efforts to address new challenges. All of this makes it more difficult to properly run the government. “I will continue to urge House leaders to return to regular order to ensure we run an effective and efficient government that supports our communities.”
12.6.2016	“I have grave concerns about the judgment of Lt. General Michael Flynn. He has regularly engaged in the reckless public promotion of conspiracy theories that have no basis in fact, with disregard for the risks that giving credence to those theories could pose to the public. The National Security Adviser is responsible for filtering and assessing crucial information pertaining to the national defense. Someone who is so oblivious to the facts, or intentionally ignorant of them, should not be entrusted with policy decisions that affect the safety of the American people. “Lt. General Michael Flynn’s name should be removed from the position President-elect Trump has appointed him to. His recent statements make it unquestionably clear that he has become unhinged from reality. If the President-elect cares at all about the future of our national security, I suggest that he appoint another person to this critical administration position.”
12.5.2016	“With the nomination of Dr. Ben Carson as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), President-elect Donald Trump has chosen a disturbingly unqualified individual for a key leadership position in his administration. The HUD Secretary has the critical role of building strong, sustainable and inclusive communities that provide access to quality affordable homes for all. Dr. Carson has absolutely no experience to even remotely prepare him for the serious responsibility of leading a federal agency that directly impacts the quality of life of so many Americans. “It is imperative that the administration and Congress focus on building comprehensive and long-term solutions to reverse the growing epidemic of housing insecurity. The community development and housing assistance programs that HUD directs help ensure that all individuals and families have a place to call home.”
12.2.2016	“This bill makes a valuable contribution to our country’s national security. While it does not contain everything we could have hoped for, the bill includes a number of positive improvements to U.S. defense policy. It wisely avoids earlier efforts to discriminate against LGBT individuals, erode the Endangered Species Act, undermine labor laws, and much besides. Instead, it focuses on efforts to advance the defense of the United States, and I believe it succeeds in doing so.”
12.2.2016	“General Mattis has served the United States tirelessly, with admirable distinction. However, the unusual circumstances of his nomination raise serious questions about fundamental principles of our Constitutional order. Civilian control of the military is not something to be casually cast aside. So while I like and respect General Mattis a great deal, the House of Representatives would have to perform a full review, including hearings by the Armed Services Committee, if it were to consider overriding the statutory prohibition on recent military officers serving as the Secretary of Defense. ‎"I want to reiterate how much I admire General Mattis. I worked with him personally in the many positions he has held during his service. We have a close personal relationship, and I consider him an outstanding individual and officer. ‎I will be having close conversations with him in the coming days about how to ensure we maintain civilian control of the military."
12.1.2016	“Today, a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) advisory panel has recommended that U.S immigration authorities be directed to maintain their current use of private detention facilities. I am extremely disappointed by this announcement, as this policy will continue the status quo of systemic problems in our immigration detention system that we know must be fixed. “Following the reported outcomes of the DHS two-month review, I have requested a meeting with DHS officials to be briefed on the rationale behind this alarming decision. I will continue to fight for polices that will comprehensively reform our flawed detention policy. It is unacceptable for our immigration detention system to be allowed to benefit private corporations at high cost to taxpayers, detainees, and their families.”
11.30.2016	“President-elect Trump has continued to produce dangerous and unhinged rhetoric. His recent statement regarding the ‘millions of people who voted illegally’ is completely unacceptable given there is absolutely no evidence of voter fraud. Trump’s actions only serve to undermine the system of government that he is preparing to lead in 50 days. “This is especially disturbing considering that around the nation there have been widespread voter intimidation tactics and voter suppression laws that kept hundreds of thousands of voters away from the polls in battleground states. These voter identification laws have kept away many of those who do not have access or the resources to obtain particular identification cards that are deemed satisfactory in certain states. President-elect Trump supports these laws that turn away the voices of individuals with low socioeconomic status.” “I have stated that I will continue to hold President-elect Trump accountable for his actions that have been less than Presidential. I am committed to fighting this administration every step of the way.”
11.18.2016	“With the nomination of Senator Jeff Sessions as the 84th Attorney General for the United States, President-elect Donald Trump has selected a documented racist to be a member of his cabinet. “Senator Sessions has a long history of disturbing racism. In 1986, Senator Session’s racism kept him from being confirmed by the Senate Judiciary Committee for a federal judgeship under President Ronald Reagan. During the confirmation hearings, it became public that Senator Sessions had previously made statements sympathizing with the Ku Klux Klan and viewed both the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) as “un-American” and “trying to force civil right down the throats of people.” “The next Attorney General will be tasked with essential role of chief law enforcement officer and chief lawyer of the United States government. Regardless of who the Senate confirms as Attorney General, I will continue to vocally advocate for policies that create a more just criminal justice system, and fight to dismantle structural racism at all levels of our government.”
11.16.2016	“I am extremely disturbed that as one of his first decisions as President-elect, Donald Trump has announced his appointment of Steven Bannon as White House Chief Strategist. Mr. Bannon is the Executive Chairman of the website Breitbart News, where he has repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote Anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has served as a “platform for the alt-right,” a movement that supports White Nationalism and openly rejects the value of diversity. “Following the President-elect’s announcement, leading white nationalists like former Ku Klux Klan Grand Dragon David Duke have applauded the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. In contrast, the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center are strongly opposed to Mr. Bannon’s selection. “Mr. Bannon’s appointment will serve as a barrier to our country coming together following the election. As one of President-elect Trump’s top advisors, the White House Chief Strategist will help set the tone for the incoming administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. In recognition of these concerns, I have signed on to a letter, along with 169 of my congressional colleagues which calls on President-elect Trump to rescind his appointment of Mr. Bannon and work to build a diverse White House staff that is committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity, and tolerance. “I have pledged to hold President-elect Trump accountable from day one, if he continues to divide us as a nation through his appointments to the Presidential Cabinet or through his proposed policies, I pledge to fight him every step of the way.”
11.11.2016	“Veterans Day honors the service and sacrifice of our veterans. Each November 11th, we commemorate our veterans who have faithfully served our country. We reflect on the courage and commitment of the brave men and women who protect us and ensure our freedom. “Many veterans have chosen to live in the Puget Sound region, and it is my honor to represent them in Congress. It is Congress’ responsibility to provide access to quality benefits, assistance programs, and medical treatment upon separation from the Armed Forces. We must focus on ensuring that the brave men and women who serve our country come home to family-wage, quality job opportunities, and receive the care and support they deserve. As the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), I consistently work to ensure that our veterans receive the benefits and treatment they have earned for their years of faithful service. These benefits are critical for veterans, retirees, and their dependents, as well as those who are considering a career in the military. “After leaving the military, servicemembers continue to give back to our community. As first responders, educators, engineers, doctors, and small business owners, veterans positively impact our region when they transition into civilian life. It is our shared responsibility as Americans to show our veterans our enormous gratitude and respect.”
11.10.2016	“President-elect Trump ran the most bitter, divisive, and negative presidential campaign in history. Now he claims he wants to change his tone. For the sake of our country, I hope he does. “From day one, I will do everything I can to hold President-elect Trump and his administration accountable. I would like to see his agenda create good jobs, increase equality and equity, and respect the rights of all Americans; particularly women, communities of color, LGBTQ individuals, people with disabilities, and immigrants. However, if he continues to divide us as a nation, I will fight him every step of the way.”
11.1.2016	“I am saddened by the tragic news that State Senator Andy Hill has passed away after a difficult battle with cancer. Senator Hill was a leader in our region, working across the aisle to increase opportunities for students during his career in public service. I offer my deepest condolences to Senator Hill's family and friends, and my thanks for his dedication to Washington state throughout his life."
10.5.2016	“Under current law, pharmaceutical companies holding a patent for a drug can develop, distribute, and market what is known as an Authorized Generic (AG) through a privileged process provided in the Hatch-Waxman Act (PL 98-417) that allows the brand-name company to introduce and begin sales of a generic product, rather than going through the ‘Abbreviated New Drug Application’ process that third-party generics must pursue. An AG may artificially crowd the generic market for a given drug because it is exempted from a third party generic producer’s market exclusivity period, which is intended to encourage third party pharmaceutical companies to compete in the generic market. “The opportunity to advance an AG is a benefit afforded only to the brand-name drug company. A 2011 Federal Trade Commission (FTC) study found that AGs harm the generic market in the long-term. In addition, some argue that the practice of allowing AGs can incentivize brand-name drug price increases separate from any changes in supply or demand. This inequitable system can hurt patients and dissuade competition. My bill, the Eliminate Price Increases Act, H.R. 6284, would simply prohibit a company that holds the patent for a brand-name pharmaceutical product from also introducing an AG. “Recently, those with severe allergies saw a dramatic increase in the price of a life-saving drug, the EpiPen. When a pharmaceutical company dramatically increases the price of a brand-name drug, many families and consumers may be forced to rely on less ideal or potentially riskier options such as using expired medications. It is critical that we keep life-saving medical devices and drugs affordable for American families. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to enact policies that will help keep necessary medical treatments within reach for all those who need them.”
9.29.2016	“This week the House of Representatives passed a much needed reauthorization of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), a bill that will assist local governments in improving their infrastructure. The legislation provides the Army Corps of Engineers with the authority to study water resource issues, construct projects, and modify existing water development projects. “WRDA will authorize the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to initiate over 25 water-related infrastructure projects throughout the country. Here in the Pacific Northwest, this authorization language will impact a number of ecosystem restoration projects. Additionally, the bill requires the Government Accountability Office to conduct a study regarding any remaining federal obligation to Native American communities displaced by dams on the Columbia River in both Oregon and Washington. As the House version of WRDA was crafted, I was a strong supporter of ecosystem restoration funding for the Puget Sound. In June of this year, I joined members of the Washington state delegation in sending a letter to the USACE in support of the Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration General Investigation (GI) study and asked for the swift completion of the Chief’s Report so that it could be included in WRDA. The GI study contained an implementation strategy developed jointly with the USACE and the Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife to identify and develop projects to advance restoration of critical nearshore habitat in our region. I was happy to see that following the completion of the Chief’s Report, language authorizing funding for nearshore restoration projects in the Puget Sound made it into the House passed version of the bill. “I am also extremely pleased to see that the House passed WRDA includes Congressman Dan Kildee’s amendment to authorize $170 million to replace infrastructure in communities like Flint that have declared a state of emergency as a result of the presence of lead and other contaminants in their water. As a co-sponsor of Rep. Kildee’s bill the Families in Flint Act, I have been a strong advocate of providing aid to Flint through federal funding to help families recover from this man-made disaster. I appreciate Rep. Kildee’s leadership in this time of crisis for the over 100,000 Americans impacted by the continued lack of access to safe drinking water, and will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure the Federal government provides resources to families in need during this ongoing public health crisis. “As WRDA moves to a conference committee between the House of Representatives and the Senate, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure Congress is able to pass a bipartisan solution to address the needs of our country’s rivers, harbors, dams, flood protection, aid for disadvantaged communities, and other water resources infrastructure that will provide national economic and environmental benefits.”
9.28.2016	“I extend our deepest sympathies to the people of the State of Israel on the passing of former President Shimon Peres, a visionary leader who dedicated himself to Israel and the cause of peace. “With so many conflicts around the globe, we can best honor President Peres by striving to pursue his vision for a more just, stable, and peaceful world. May his memory be a blessing to his family, the people of the State of Israel, and people from all countries.”
9.27.2016	“The movement of freight is critical for the strength of our economy,” said Congressman Smith. “Investment in our freight transportation infrastructure provides tangible benefits by improving our capacity to move goods and support job creation.” The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, passed by Congress in 2015, made dedicated investments to freight and highway projects across the country through a grant program and formula funding. In order to build on that progress, Congress should create a national freight discretionary grant program supported by an authorized and dedicated sustainable funding source, there must be an additional freight specific grant program funded by a dedicated source of revenue. This program should be used for the sole purpose of funding regionally significant freight projects that will improve mobility and shore up our nation’s shipping infrastructure. The Freight Infrastructure Reinvestment Act of 2016 creates grants specifically for freight infrastructure projects, establishing a dedicated funding source for these projects by creating a National Freight Mobility Infrastructure Fund through a one percent fee on the shipment of freight cargo. This bill will establish a National Freight Mobility Infrastructure Improvement Program to work alongside the FASTLane Grants program to provide competitive grants to states and designated entities for projects that would improve rail and roadway capacity and safety. These funds will support local projects like the construction of grade separations and railroad and highway junctions, the expansion of rail and highway tunnels, the reinforcement of roads and bridges for heavier traffic and vehicle volume, and the construction of marine terminal facilities used for freight. “Despite advancements in freight policy and funding through the FAST Act, much more is needed to accommodate forecasted demands on goods movement infrastructure. I applaud Congressman Smith’s dedication to identifying sustainable and robust freight funding that will complement and build upon FAST Act programs,” said Coalition for America’s Gateways and Trade Corridors President Leslie Blakey. “We thank Congressman Smith for his leadership and significant proposal.” “This proposal will create a revenue source to address our nation’s most critical freight projects,” said John Creighton, co-chair of The Northwest Seaport Alliance. “Given the high rate of return freight infrastructure investments can achieve for our economy and the challenges facing our current system, Rep. Smith’s proposal is precisely the type of solution we need. We appreciate his leadership and consistent advocacy for freight.” Prioritizing U.S. infrastructure investment will further assist our economic recovery, improve safety throughout our transportation system, and ensure the continued strength of the U.S. economy for decades to come.
9.22.2016	“Today, I voted in support of H.R. 5963, the Supporting Youth Opportunity and Preventing Delinquency Act of 2016. Led by Rep. Carlos Curbelo and Ranking Member Bobby Scott of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, this legislation reauthorizes and strengthens the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (JJDPA) to help state and local leaders better educate and rehabilitate at-risk youth and juvenile offenders. These long-overdue reforms provide direction and support for necessary juvenile justice system improvements. “I applaud Ranking Member Scott for his leadership on this critical issue confronting young people across the United States. Rep. Scott’s call for reforms that are ‘smart,’ not ‘tough,’ on juvenile crime will provide the building blocks for a brighter future for all of our youths. Past reforms of our justice system intended to keep our communities safer have resulted in disproportionately high incarceration rates among youth of color, split families apart and helped to perpetuate cycles of poverty. We must do more to invest in the future of our nation, and this bipartisan legislation takes a meaningful step towards truly reforming our juvenile justice system. “Specifically, H.R. 5963 includes provisions to ensure the continuity of young people’s education while incarcerated, provides clear guidance and directions for state and local governments on how to reduce racial and ethnic disparities among incarcerated youth, and extends protections for children detained in the juvenile and adult justice systems. The bill amends four core mandates of the JJDPA by instituting evidence-based prevention and intervention programs specifically designed to reduce juvenile delinquency. “Comprehensive criminal justice reform is long overdue, and I continue to call for specific improvements to our fundamentally flawed system to ensure that all of our children grow up in a more just society. By passing the Supporting Youth Opportunity and Preventing Delinquency Act of 2016, we are giving at-risk youth a second chance, and providing all children the opportunity to achieve a lifetime of success. The education, safety and prevention reforms this bill creates are a critical step in ending the school-to prison-pipeline. With bipartisan commitment to expanding opportunities, we can continue to work towards a justice system that is truly fair and effective.”
9.12.2016	“Our veterans have served this nation bravely and heroically. We owe these men and women an enormous debt of gratitude and respect. On August 31st, my office had the honor of hosting our first Veterans History Project (VHP) event at the Nisei Veterans Center in Seattle. The VHP’s mission is to collect, preserve, and make accessible the personal accounts of American veterans so that future generations may hear directly from former servicemembers and better understand their unique stories, and selfless sacrifice. Nisei Veterans have contributed to our region’s history, and continue to play a critical role in educating future generations on the history of our country. The rich history of the Nisei Veterans provided a welcoming and inspiring space for those participating and sharing their stories. The VHP event was also made possible with the generosity of cadets from the local Civil Air Patrol squadron, who volunteered to assist in conducting interviews throughout the day’s event, as well as members of senior leadership from the Seattle Nisei Veterans Committee. “At the event, I had the privilege to speak about the significance of our veteran’s service, as well as the importance of future generations being offered this unique opportunity to learn from these very personal stories. The event showcased a presentation of previously recorded oral histories from Ret. General Peter Chiarelli and Ret. Major General Tim Lowenberg, both Northwest natives and national veteran leaders in the Puget Sound region. The diverse ages and backgrounds of the veterans who participated in the VHP will provide a powerful contribution to the permanent collections of the Library of Congress – one that is truly reflective of our region’s diverse history.” ### My office will be recording oral histories from veterans in our community on a rolling basis throughout the year. Interested community members can contact my Renton, District office at 425.793.5180 and visit my website for further information on how to participate in the VHP: https://adamsmith.house.gov/veterans-history-project
9.5.2016	“Each Labor Day, we celebrate the contributions of the men and women of the American labor movement. This annual tribute to the achievements of America's workers recognizes the impact of labor unions on the creation and sustainability of a strong middle class. As the son of a ramp serviceman at SeaTac Airport, I have seen firsthand the importance of investing in the American worker to ensure that all members of our society are given the opportunity to work toward achieving the American Dream. “The social and economic contributions of the labor movement have been critical in raising the minimum wage, supporting education and workforce training programs, and providing living wage jobs for our working families. The American labor movement has long been fighting to expand broad-based prosperity for our nation, and will continue to play a role in building a strong future for generations to come.”
8.30.2016	“I am encouraged that Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson has called for a review of current policies concerning the use of privately run detention centers. I believe they will find that these prisons are not the best our government can provide to ensure everyone's rights are protected. “At the Northwest Detention Center in Tacoma, Washington, I have witnessed firsthand the exploitative living conditions these detainees face and have advocated for immediate changes to our immigration detention operations. “The continual dysfunction within our detention system will need the leadership of Congress and a clear outcome from DHS internal review in order for concrete solutions to be instituted to protect the integrity of detainees and provide adequate oversight of our facilities. While the move to reevaluate the use of privately run facilities is indeed the correct one, this is only the first step towards rebuilding a system that is in dire need of comprehensive reform.”
8.18.2016	“I applaud the Justice Department’s decision to end its use of private prisons. The recent Justice Department Inspector General findings highlights the safety and efficiency problems common in private contract facilities, and gave the Justice Department the information they needed to meaningfully reevaluate their longstanding use of private prisons. While the changes in our justice system will not take place overnight, this is a positive step forward. “The Department of Homeland Security should follow the Department of Justice and begin to systematically end its contracts with private detention centers. It is now more clear than ever that for-profit companies have no place in operating prison facilities, and we must move detainees with pending immigration cases that pose no risk to society out on to community-based Alternatives to Detention (ATDs). For those who pose too great a risk to release, we should have clearly established baseline standards for immigration detention centers that are owned and operated by the government. My bill, the Accountability in Immigration Detention Act, outlines acceptable standards and highlights the need for increased use of ATDs, as well as the elimination of the detention bed mandate. “To truly reform our broken criminal justice system and ensure we are building a more just society, it will take more than the closure of these facilities. Today marks a small victory, but one that must be followed with aggressive actions elsewhere in the government - including by Congress.”
8.5.2016	“Tomorrow, our country celebrates the 1965 signing of the most successful piece of civil rights legislation in our nation’s history. On this significant anniversary, it is important to remember that any barriers to voting are unacceptable. Free and fair elections are the cornerstone of any democracy, and here in the U.S. equal access at the ballot box is critical to the future success of our country. In recent years we have seen the VRA come under attack, most notably in the case of Shelby County v. Holder when the Supreme Court invalided a crucial centerpiece of the VRA that helped to ensure that states would not discriminate against certain voters. Throughout my time in Congress, I have been a vocal advocate for voting rights, and I remain committed to doing all I can to restore and strengthen the VRA to ensure that no voter experiences discrimination. “We need elections where the issues are what matter, and campaigns compete on the quality of their ideas. In the 114th Congress, I have supported numerous efforts to protect and expand upon voting rights at the federal level including cosponsoring Rep. Terri Sewell’s Voting Rights Advancement Act and Rep. John Lewis’s Voter Empowerment Act. As a member of the Voting Rights Caucus, I look forward to finding new ways to work with my colleagues to support our election system so that every voter is protected.”
8.1.2016	“I have the utmost respect for Khizr and Ghazala Khan, and to all the family members of our fallen service members. Americans of all faiths and ethnic groups have given the ultimate sacrifice to our country by losing their lives in the line of duty. As a nation, we humbly honor the service of the diverse men and women of our Armed Forces. We know that America's incredible diversity only serves to make us stronger. For anyone to denigrate a Gold Star family's service and sacrifice is reprehensible.”
7.28.2016	“I remain concerned about the source of the tank vapor problems at the Hanford Nuclear site, and the need to implement a permanent solution that will protect Hanford workers. This has been an on-going issue that has sickened dozens of workers and must be more decisively resolved in order to protect worker health and safety. “As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I remain committed to ensuring a rigorous, safe clean-up at Hanford and I will continue to fight to ensure that during this process the health of all workers is a priority.”
7.13.2016	“Congress has the very serious responsibility of addressing the challenges our country faces with rational policy solutions. We are tasked with the duty of developing legislation that creates broad-based opportunities for all, grows our economy, and keeps our country strong and forward-looking, while making government work better for everyone. “Unfortunately, House Republican leadership chose to spend large portions of Monday and Tuesday of this week debating and voting on the deceptively named Separation of Powers Restoration Act of 2016, H.R. 4768. While H.R. 4768 claims to restore the separation of powers, it in fact subverts it by forcing the judicial system to wade into the executive rule-making process. H.R. 4768 would undo decades of judicial precedent established by the Supreme Court, where courts defer to the expertise of government agencies when reviewing challenges to Federal Agency actions. The legislation would open up all agency actions and rules to challenges that could make the rule-making process exceptionally lengthy and render it ineffective, while overly-burdening government agencies with unnecessary record keeping and data recording. Instead of ensuring taxpayer dollars are spent in the most efficient and effective manner, the bill would vastly increase the cost to the taxpayer of agency rule-making. Additionally, the bill will have the adverse effect of trapping critical consumer protections in a web of judicial reviews that would make passage of an agency rule almost impossible. “The historical practice of courts deferring to agency expertise was established for good reason, and has been proven effective. Rather than wasting time on pushing through an unnecessary solution in search of a problem, I encourage my Republican colleagues to instead focus on improving the lives of Americans.”
7.8.2016	“This week our nation has experienced immeasurable heartbreak. My deepest sympathies are with every family and community that has been touched by violence over the past few days. As we move forward, there are many difficult questions and issues that must be addressed as those whose lives have been torn apart begin to heal.” “As a country, it is imperative that we come together to address the violence that devastates countless families. We must continue to support efforts to end the senseless violence fueled by hatred that has become a far too frequent pattern in cities throughout America.”
6.30.2016	“This policy is an important step toward ensuring that our military is strong and inclusive. It will protect the rights of transgender individuals who already serve in the U.S. armed forces, with minimal impact on the operations of the Department of Defense. “These changes will involve a very small number of individuals serving in the armed forces, on the order of 0.1 percent of the approximate total of two million active and reserve members in the U.S military. The evidence indicates that modernizing our policy in this way will not meaningfully reduce readiness. In fact, according to research by the RAND Corporation and retired flag officers, it should enhance readiness by enabling commanders to better provide for the needs of the men and women they lead. Similar policies have already been adopted by U.S. allies such as Israel, Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom. “By providing clarity for the service branches and removing an obsolete policy that has made it more difficult for our men and women in uniform to do their jobs, this policy will strengthen, not reduce, the military’s ability to defend the United States.” In June 2016, Congressman Smith wrote a letter to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter in support of the decision to repeal the Department of Defense’s (DOD) outdated policy prohibiting transgender individuals from openly serving in the military and urged the expeditious implementation of this policy change. Ending the ban on ?transgender individuals serving in our military will allow the armed forces to better realize the full potential of all service members and make our nation safer and stronger. Read the full letter here: https://goo.gl/KnhJRL
6.27.2016	In recognition of these important issues, Congressman Smith cosponsored the Money Remittances Improvement Act of 2014 which was signed into law by the President on August 8, 2014, and has met with numerous government officials in attempts to find ways to continue U.S. remittances to Somalia. Congressman Smith continues to call for the U.S. government to take steps to cooperate with and support Somalia and its people whenever possible. Congressman Smith remains ready to help in any way he can. Acting Under Secretary Szubin was nominated by the White House to serve as Treasury’s Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence on April 20, 2015. This position leads the Treasury Department’s policy, enforcement, regulatory, and intelligence functions aimed at identifying and disrupting the lines of financial support to international terrorist organizations, proliferators of weapons of mass destruction, narcotics traffickers, and other actors posing a threat to our national security or foreign policy. The Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence is also responsible for overseeing the Department’s efforts to combat money laundering and financial crimes. “Today’s community conversation and engagement provided a powerful platform to reiterate our earlier calls for the processing of remittances. As a vital component of the Somali economy, remittances help many families pay for every day necessities such as food, medicine, education, as well as help expand economic and business opportunities in Somalia,” said Congressman Smith. “We need to make it easier for residents of the 9th District and Somali-Americans everywhere to send money back to their families in Somalia. Having Acting U/S Szubin here in Seattle shows the Treasury Department’s commitment to our efforts.” “Treasury is working to ensure that remittance flows are transparent, safe, and strong, and recognizes the importance of remittances from the United States reaching loved ones abroad,” said Adam J. Szubin, Acting Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence at the U.S. Department of the Treasury. “Challenges remain, but we are encouraged by the continued robust flows of remittances and by the progress that's being made in increasing transparency and oversight. I am further encouraged by the thoughtful dialogue that I have had with Congressman Adam Smith, his constituents, money transmitters, and local banks on this important issue. We look forward to working with Congressman Smith and other members of Congress in the weeks and months ahead.” Congressman Smith and Acting Under Secretary Szubin will continue to support efforts to build a strong Somalia, with a sustainable and well-regulated and supervised financial system in Somalia, and support its people whenever possible. June 27, 2016 Community Meetings: Who: Congressman Adam Smith, Washington’s 9th Congressional District Adam J. Szubin, Acting Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence Where: NewHolly Gathering Hall 7054 32nd Ave South Seattle WA 98118 Schedule of Events: 10:15 – 10:45 am Banking Roundtable 11:00 – 12:00 pm Panel discussion and community discussion
6.27.2016	WASHINGTON— Today, the Democratic Members of the Select Committee on Benghazi issued a 339-page report entitled, “Honoring Courage, Improving Security, and Fighting the Political Exploitation of a Tragedy.” Democrats also released all of the unclassified interview transcripts in their possession so the American people can read them for themselves. “Decades in the future, historians will look back on this investigation as a case study in how not to conduct a credible investigation,” the Members wrote. “They will showcase the proliferation of Republican abuses as a chief example of what happens when politicians are allowed to use unlimited taxpayer dollars—and the formidable power of Congress—to attack their political foes.” The Democratic report’s overarching conclusion is that the evidence obtained by the Select Committee confirms the core findings already issued by many previous investigations into the attacks in Benghazi. Although the Select Committee obtained additional details that provide context and granularity, these details do not fundamentally alter the previous conclusions. The report finds: U.S. personnel in Benghazi and Tripoli conducted themselves with extraordinary courage and heroism and at grave personal risk to defend and rescue their fellow Americans. The Defense Department could not have done anything differently on the night of the attacks that would have saved the lives of the four brave Americans killed in Benghazi, and although the military’s global posture prevented it from responding more quickly that night, improvements were made years ago. The State Department’s security measures in Benghazi were woefully inadequate as a result of decisions made by officials in the Bureau of Diplomatic Security, but Secretary Clinton never personally denied any requests for additional security in Benghazi. The Intelligence Community’s assessments evolved after the attacks as more information became available, but they were not influenced by political considerations. Administration officials did not make intentionally misleading statements about the attacks, but instead relied on information they were provided at the time under fast-moving circumstances. The Democratic report also documents the grave abuses Republicans engaged in during this investigation—from A to Z. Republicans excluded Democrats from interviews, concealed exculpatory evidence, withheld interview transcripts, leaked inaccurate information, issued unilateral subpoenas, sent armed Marshals to the home of a cooperative witness, and even conducted political fundraising by exploiting the deaths of four Americans. “In our opinion,” the Members wrote, “Chairman Gowdy has been conducting this investigation like an overzealous prosecutor desperately trying to land a front-page conviction rather than a neutral judge of facts seeking to improve the security of our diplomatic corps.” “We are issuing our own report today because, after spending more than two years and $7 million in taxpayer funds in one of the longest and most partisan congressional investigations in history, it is long past time for the Select Committee to conclude its work,” they wrote. “Despite our repeated requests over the last several months, Republicans have refused to provide us with a draft of their report—or even a basic outline—making it impossible for us to provide input and obvious that we are being shut out of the process until the last possible moment.” The Democratic report makes 12 recommendations. Because the fundamental goal of the Democratic Members has always been to improve the security of our diplomatic corps and Americans serving our country overseas, the report makes nine recommendations to improve security measures, security training, risk management processes, and support for survivors and their families. The report also makes three recommendations for Congress to consider before establishing any future select committees. Click below to read each section: Executive Summary Findings Courage and Heroism of First Responders The Department of Defense The Department of State The Intelligence Community No Intentionally Misleading Public Statements Republican Abuses Recommendations Interview Transcripts The Democratic Members of the Select Committee are Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings, Rep. Adam Smith, Rep. Adam Schiff, Rep. Linda Sanchez, and Rep. Tammy Duckworth.
6.27.2016	“Today the Supreme Court struck down two provisions of a dangerous anti-abortion law in Texas by a vote of 5 to 3. In the case of Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt, a group of Texas abortion clinics and three doctors argued that a Texas state law requiring health providers have admitting privileges at a nearby hospital and perform abortions in ambulatory surgical centers was overly burdensome. I am extremely pleased to see the Supreme Court rule in favor of the plaintiffs, recognizing that unnecessary requirements on surgical centers poses an undue burden on women’s constitutional right to seek an abortion. I stand with all women and will continue to support policies that allow for women to make their own healthcare decisions and have access to critical reproductive healthcare services.”
6.23.2016	Washington D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s deadlocked decision in United States v. Texas: “I am deeply disappointed with the Supreme Court’s ruling today resulting in a deadlock decision on the President’s Executive Actions on Immigration. Millions of U.S. citizens with undocumented parents and DREAMers will now face uncertainty in their future and may see their families torn apart. Failure on the part of Republican leadership is what forced the President to act. I call on Congress to take action and pass a permanent comprehensive immigration bill and fix our broken system. We cannot afford to wait any longer to reform our immigration system and bring relief to millions of children and families.”
6.22.2016	Washington D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement about the sit-in taking place on the House Floor: “Today, I was proud to join Congressman John Lewis and Congresswoman Katherine Clark as they led House Democrats in a sit-in to call for action on common sense gun reforms. My fellow Democrats and I took to the floor to demand that gun safety legislation finally be allowed a vote by the full House of Representatives. The time is long past due for action. It is shameful that Republican Leadership has failed to listen to the American people. Speaker Ryan must change course – let us vote now to keep weapons out of the hands of dangerous terrorists and enact reforms that will reduce gun violence and keep our communities safe.”
6.13.2016	Washington D.C. – On June 10, 2016, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA)and Congressman Trent Franks (R-AZ) introduced bipartisan legislation, The Adoptee Citizenship Act, H.R. 5454, to guarantee citizenship to international adoptees. Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate, S.2275 by Senator Klobuchar (D-MN) and Senator Coats (R-IN). Often, when children are adopted, the required paperwork is not filed and the children are never naturalized. With the passage of the Child Citizenship Act of 2000, most international adoptees were granted citizenship. Unfortunately, the bill did not apply to adoptees who were already over the age of 18 when it was enacted into law in 2000. The Adoptee Citizenship Act, would fix this arbitrary oversight and grant citizenship to people who were legally adopted and were age 18 or older in the year 2000 when the Child Citizenship Act was signed into law. “This bill seeks to carry forward the vision of the original Child Citizenship Act of 2000, which sought to ensure that adopted children and biological children are treated equally under U.S. law. It will extend citizenship to foreign born adoptive children who have joined their forever families here in the United States," said Congressman Smith. "Unfortunately, not all adoptees were able to benefit from the legislation when it originally passed, as it was limited to apply only to minors age 18 and under. Adopted individuals should not be treated as second class citizens just because they happened to be the wrong age when the Child Citizenship Act of 2000 was passed.” “The Adoptee Citizenship Act closes a loophole and in so doing, brings hope to thousands of adoptees who were lawfully adopted and have lived their entire lives knowing only the United States as home, and yet, may never have been able to exercise their rights of citizenship due to lack of paperwork stemming from the circumstances surrounding their adoption," said Congressman Franks. "Elevating the voices of adoptees here in Congress has been a priority for me as co-chair of the Adoption Coalition, and I am so grateful to be able to jointly introduce this very bipartisan initiative with my colleague Congressman Smith. I look forward to working together to ensure the legislation moves forward.” ###
6.12.2016	“I condemn in the strongest possible terms the terrorist attack in Orlando, the worst mass shooting in United States history. I offer my deepest condolences to the victims and their families. I would like to extend particular sympathies to the LGBTQ community during this unspeakable tragedy. “As authorities investigate this horrific shooting, America must speak with one voice against gun violence of any kind. We can and must do more to confront the crisis that continues to afflict our country.”
5.30.2016	“Memorial Day is a time to honor the ultimate sacrifice of those who have given their lives in service to our country. Our gratitude extends to our fallen heroes, our veterans, and active duty servicemembers and their families. We owe our servicemembers our deepest level of respect. A true reflection of Memorial Day must reaffirm that America’s commitment to supporting our military men and women does not end when they leave active duty. “As veterans, the men and women of our armed forces continue to serve their country long after their military service has ended. As teachers, community members and civic leaders, veterans contribute to peace and prosperity at home. On Memorial Day, we must continue to show our gratitude to the servicemembers, veterans, and their families whose contributions continue to protect Americans everyday.”
5.25.2016	“The National Rifle Association’s (NRA) latest video shows how out of touch it is with finding common sense solutions to the issues of the day. In 2013, the year in which the most recent data is available, there were 27,329 deaths involving firearms, with 11,208 of those being homicides. Instead of trying to fix the nationwide health epidemic of shootings, which has resulted in the tragic deaths of far too many Americans, the NRA has turned its misguided aim on Iran. Instead of irresponsibly fanning the flames of war, it should advocate for sensible gun control laws to eliminate the unconscionable and rampant gun violence plaguing our nation. “The NRA’s uninformed foray into serious national security issues has the potential to exacerbate tensions in a region already beset by conflict. This xenophobic propaganda makes no attempt at presenting long-term solutions to bring about peace and stability. Simply put, the NRA should focus its time, energy, and efforts to address the problems it helped create before it mistakenly pretends to be an expert on foreign policy which could potentially result in the deaths of even more Americans. As a country, we must work to limit senseless gun violence, keep our communities safe, and advance constructive approaches to national security issues.”
5.24.2016	Sens. Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray joined Reps. DelBene, Jim McDermott, Adam Smith and Dave Reichert in sending a letter to HUD Secretary Julián Castro, following up on their letter from June 2015. The current HCV formula has been particularly damaging in areas with steep increases in rental costs, such as the Puget Sound region. “We greatly appreciate HUD’s efforts to address the consequences of this policy for families across the country, including in the Puget Sound region, where our local rental market has seen some of the fastest growing rental costs in the nation,” the letter states. “However, unless HCV inflation factors continue to be aligned with local rental costs, families could be forced to live in neighborhoods that are farther from employment opportunities, with higher levels of poverty and lower performing schools.” Last June, DelBene led the delegation in calling on HUD to take action after the King County Housing Authority saw a 26 percent increase in rental costs between 2014 and 2015, but did not receive a HCV inflation adjustment due to the flawed formula. For 2016, the agency provided a 12 percent increase to King County to reflect substantial growth in local rental costs, but still hasn’t established a permanent solution to avoid similar problems in the future. A copy of the signed letter is available HERE, and the full text follows: Dear Secretary Castro: We write to express our gratitude for the Department’s improvements to the methodology for determining the renewal funding inflation factors used to allocate Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) funds among Public Housing Authorities (PHAs). In particular, we appreciate HUD’s decision to incorporate two prior years of rental data in determining inflation factors for 2016, addressing the serious unintended consequences of last year’s calculations on areas with rapidly escalating rental costs — including the Puget Sound region in Washington state. We encourage HUD to continue working to establish a permanent solution to ensure the methodology fully captures variability across local rental markets in future years. Prior to 2012, the HCV renewal funding inflation factors were determined primarily using Consumer Price Index (CPI) data that account for variations in rent and utility inflation among different geographic regions — the same indicators used to calculate the Fair Market Rents (FMR) for areas across the United States. This was a well-reasoned and equitable formula, as PHAs are required to establish the level of subsidies they provide to HCV recipients using the FMR. In 2012, however, HUD updated its methodology to allocate HCV renewal funds among PHAs based on expected changes in the national Per-Unit Cost (PUC) for the HCV program. While this methodology may be effective when the change in PUC is positive, as was the case between 2012 and 2014, it has extraordinarily damaging consequences when the national PUC declines. Between 2014 and 2015, when the expected change in PUC was negative, no area in the nation — regardless of how steeply rental costs climbed — received an inflation factor. We greatly appreciate HUD’s efforts to address the consequences of this policy for families across the country, including in the Puget Sound region, where our local rental market has seen some of the fastest growing rental costs in the nation. As we wrote to you on June 19, 2015, the King County Housing Authority saw a 26 percent increase in their neighborhoods’ FMR between 2014 and 2015 — and in 2016, the local FMR rose another 7.6 percent. During such periods of rapidly rising rents, it is imperative the HCV inflation factor be commensurate with local rental costs. That’s why we were pleased to see HUD publish a methodology for 2016 that incorporates regional changes since 2014, providing the King County region with an inflation factor of 12 percent in 2016. However, unless HCV inflation factors continue to be aligned with local rental costs, families could be forced to live in neighborhoods that are farther from employment opportunities, with higher levels of poverty and lower performing schools. This risks concentrating wealth, increasing racial disparities, and limiting the career and educational opportunities available to lower-income families. To limit such consequences, we encourage HUD to continue incorporating stakeholder feedback and making adjustments to the HCV inflation factor methodology to effectively measure changes in local rental markets going forward. The HCV program is built on the promise of providing the most vulnerable members of our community with safe, affordable housing, in order to expand access to economic opportunity nationwide. By ensuring the HCV program fully captures variations in local rental markets and awards funding accordingly, we can ensure PHAs have the necessary funding to meet these critical goals. We appreciate your efforts on this matter and we look forward to continuing to work with you to meet the housing needs of low-income families across the country.
5.13.2016	“Our nation is in the midst of a heroin and prescription drug abuse epidemic, resulting in the deaths of thousands, and taking a toll on the health and safety of many Americans and their families. Since 2000, overdose deaths have increased 137% - costing more than 60 lives a day. Congress must act to stem this nation-wide epidemic by investing in prevention, treatment, recovery, and efforts to prevent the smuggling of drugs across our borders. Addiction is a brain disease, and given the medical and technological advancements over the years, we now have a better understanding of the mental and physical aspects of drug abuse; and can work to increase access to recovery services that can turn the tide of this fight. The debate on the House Floor this week should have been much more comprehensive but I support the steps we have taken to combat the drug abuse epidemic and I will continue to support efforts to address inequities in our society. “While I am deeply disappointed that the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act and its related bills do not provide the full funding necessary to confront the rising numbers of overdose death and addiction, I believe these legislative efforts will begin to address the fight against opioid and heroin abuse. It is my hope that the conversations my colleagues and I had on the piecemealed legislation that came to the House Floor this week will be the beginning of a much larger fight to secure the resources and funding necessary to meaningfully address this crisis and treat the overdose and addiction affecting our communities. “The scourge of this disease is not limited to single cities or groups. As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have personally fought for the wellbeing of our service members and requested critical support in efforts to address opioid misuse, abuse, addiction, overdose and death. I submitted an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act, directing the Secretary of Defense to submit a report to Congress on the DOD’s efforts to prevent, educate and treat prescription opioid drug abuse. “While the current crisis we face in opioid abuse is extraordinarily important, we must remain cognizant of the unfinished business in the sentencing disparity between crack vs. powder cocaine. That these are essentially two separate forms of the same substance remains a significant issue that cannot be overlooked. In 2010, I supported the passage of S. 1789, the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010, which reduced the sentencing disparity between offenses for crack and powder cocaine from 100:1 to 18:1. It also eliminated the mandatory minimum sentence for simple possession offenses. The 100:1 ratio was scientifically unjustifiable, and resulted in individuals of color being targeted and jailed with disproportionately longer sentences. “In the current Congress, I am a supporter of a number of bills that work to correct this historical inequity. H.R. 1252, the Fair Sentencing Clarification Act, would make the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010 retroactively applicable to federal prisoners serving mandatory minimum sentences for crack cocaine. I also co-sponsored H.R. 1255, the Fairness in Cocaine Sentencing Act, which would eliminate disparity between crack cocaine and powder cocaine sentences entirely – creating a 1:1 ratio. This legislation would combat inequities in our justice system, requiring that the same amount of each drug triggers the same sentence. “We know that in order to pursue true racial justice we must re-examine the role of our justice system as the spearhead against the disease of drug addiction, challenging long-held assumptions and improving our system to emphasis prevention. Rather than focus on incarcerating Americans who suffer from addiction, we must focus on education, access to treatment services, and rehabilitation into society. By doing so, we recognize the evidence-based fact that remanding these individuals to jail and prison is structurally, as well as morally, wrong. I applaud my colleagues for the bipartisan work accomplished this week to start addressing the issues of opioid prescription and heroin drug abuse, but know there is much more work that still needs to be done.”
5.8.2016	staff then accidentally leaks the name of that individual. The CIA quickly debunks Gowdy’s allegation. ? (7) October 19, 2015: The Washington Post reports on links between Gowdy and Stop Hillary PAC, which describes itself as “created for one reason only—to ensure Hillary Clinton never becomes President of the United States.” Gowdy’s leadership PAC, Themis, shared the same treasurer as Stop Hillary PAC since 2013, an outspoken Clinton opponent named Dan Backer who also served as treasurer on three other PACs that each donated $2,000 to Gowdy for Congress. Only after being confronted with these facts by the Post did Gowdy return these donations. In September 2014, STOP Hillary PAC spent $10,000 on robocalls and other efforts in support of Gowdy.? (8) October 22, 2015: Gowdy holds a marathon, 11-hour hearing with Secretary Clinton that is widely condemned by even conservatives commentators as a “carnival road show,” “overkill,” a “PR disaster for the GOP,” a “big fat flop,” and “a very bad day for Trey Gowdy and the Republicans.” Gowdy concedes that the hearing revealed nothing new: “In terms of her testimony? I don’t know that she testified that much differently today than she has the previous time she testified.” Donald Trump—now the presumptive Republican presidential nominee—calls Gowdy’s hearing “a total disaster” that “was not good for Republicans and for the country.” He tweets, “Face it, Trey Gowdy failed miserably on Benghazi.” He then refers to him as “Benghazi loser Gowdy.” ? (9) February 11, 2016: Gowdy starts withholding copies of Committee interview transcripts from Democrats in violation of House rules. He later explains that he is withholding these transcripts from Democrats because he fears they might release more of them in response to his own unilateral releases: “Committee transcripts will not leave the Majority’s control due to the Minority’s stated intention to selectively release them at will.? (10) April 29, 2016: The Pentagon takes the highly unusual step of sending a letter to Gowdy exposing the latest GOP abuses, including dragging out the investigation, requesting duplicative and unnecessary witnesses, and asking witnesses to “speculate or engage in discussing on the record hypotheticals.” The letter states that the Pentagon “expended significant resources” trying to locate an individual identified as “John from Iowa,” who called into Sean Hannity’s radio show and alleged he was a Remotely Piloted Aircraft camera operator and saw the video feed from the night of the attack. Gowdy wanted to interview him even though the Select Committee already had access to the relevant video from that night.?
5.6.2016	“Disturbing statements from the Republican White House contender cannot go unaddressed. America must stay true to its founding principles by standing with immigrants and leading on refugee resettlement. Our American values embrace people of all faiths and backgrounds. Fear cannot cloud our judgement, drive policy, or destroy our country’s fabric. The Republicans are presenting a very different vision for our country. “Here in the Puget Sound region we have seen firsthand the damage that hateful and violent rhetoric inflicts on our local community centers and places of worship. We know that our region's diversity is one of our greatest strengths. Instead of hateful and violent words, we should stay true to our values and work together to build a more just and peaceful society. We know that immigrants and refugees strengthen our communities, our economy, and our country's future. Throughout our history, refugees and immigrants have made America great and will continue to do so.”
5.4.2016	“The language in the Russell amendment is a direct attack on LGBT rights. The president issued an executive order prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation or identity by government contractors. The Russell amendment tries to override this executive order by artfully claiming to protect ‘religious freedom,’ but just like similar efforts in numerous state legislatures, this is actually an effort to promote discrimination. The language tries to protect the so-called ‘right’ to get government contracts and grants and still discriminate against people whose lifestyle you don’t approve of. Government-funded discrimination is wrong under any circumstances, and we certainly shouldn’t be trying to expand it in a defense policy bill.”
4.29.2016	“The House Armed Services Committee is maintaining its bipartisan tradition. We worked through a lot of issues throughout the mark-up process, including a number of very controversial provisions. We crafted legislation the way it is supposed to be done. We held productive debates, disagreed, voted, and at the end of the process we passed a very significant piece of legislation. “The National Defense Authorization Act is a very important bill that provides funding for essential defense priorities and sets military policy that impacts members of the military, their families and our local communities. As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will continue to fight for a bill that reflects our national priorities” The Amendment Process During the mark-up, Democrats fought hard and won votes to protect the environment, overriding measures that would have prohibited USDA funds from being used to support DOD efforts to procure alternative fuels, prevented the construction of biofuel refineries, and overturned President Obama’s executive orders on climate change and sustainability. Democrats won on a vote to establish equality for women in the military, by including them in the Selective Service. Democrats won on votes to expand parental leave for military members to 14 days, expand adoption leave for dual military couples to 36 days, and require the Secretary of Defense to study flexible maternity and paternity leave sharing. Fighting for Our Principles With the support of my colleague Congressman Clyburn, I offered an amendment to pressure South Carolina to take down the Confederate battle flag flying above The Citadel, but Republicans modified it and voted for a version that would allow the flag to continue flying. I continue to fight to remove unnecessary restrictions on the closure of the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, and offered an amendment to get rid of the unnecessary restrictions on GTMO transfers added in last year's NDAA. My amendment failed but I will continue to fight to close this international eyesore that undermines national security objectives and damages our credibility with regard to human rights and international law. Democrats fought back against an effort to prohibit unused military facilities from being used to house unaccompanied undocumented children. Democrats fought back against efforts to protect government contractors who pervasively violate labor, nondiscrimination, workplace safety, minimum wage, and other laws from disclosure requirements. Democrats fought against efforts to expand religious organizations’ ability to conduct ‘taxpayer funded discrimination’ against LGBT individuals, women, and other groups. Democrats fought to remove $317 million in unrequested funds for nuclear weapons modernization, to reverse restrictions on dismantling nuclear weapons no longer in use, stop plans for an infeasible $300 billion ‘Star Wars’ space-based antimissile shield, and fought for independent cost estimates and more insight into the 30-year trillion-dollar plan for nuclear modernization. Democrats fought big oil-driven efforts to weaken the Endangered Species Act and undermine collaboration between DOD and DOI on land management via attacks on the sage grouse, the lesser prairie chicken, and the burying beetle. Included in the Mark The bill expresses a Sense of Congress valuing the expanded opportunities for women in the military and recognizing their long history of military service to the United States. It includes $10 million for research, development, and training at historically black universities and colleges; $20 million for military STEM education for at-risk youth; and $10 million for K-12 STEM education. It allows transgender servicemembers who have changed their name after separation from service to receive amended discharge documents with their new name. It requires the Secretary of the Navy to review the court-martial convictions of those accused in the Port Chicago Naval Magazine incident of July 1944, to ensure there was no racial bias. It requires a review of the service records of Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander veterans from the Korean war and Vietnam war to determine whether racial bias unjustly prevented them from receiving Medals of Honor, in order to set the record straight. It directs the Secretary of Defense to examine the feasibility of allow applicants to the Discharge Review Board and the Boards for the Correction of Military Records to appear before the boards remotely. It includes Talia’s Law, a measure to prevent child abuse and neglect on military installations. It fully funds nuclear nonproliferation and funds nuclear clean-up efforts. It directs a study to try and identify individuals who are at high risk for suicide, as well as outlining efforts to combat suicidality. It affirms the Secretary of Defense’s legal ability to allow immigrants – including DREAMers – to enlist in the military and serve our nation in uniform. I continue to fight for the wellbeing of our service members and provide critical support in efforts to address opioid misuse, abuse, addiction, overdose and death. I offered an amendment accepted by the committee directing the Secretary of Defense to submit a report to Congress on the DOD’s efforts to prevent, educate and treat prescription opioid drug abuse. I support people-to-people ties, as they form bonds and bridges between nations. Helping build capacity abroad through education, including English language programs, advances national security goals. The bill requires a brief on opportunities to explore expanded education programs abroad and at home, including partnerships with U.S. colleges and universities. I recognize the importance of exploring technology for clean water and desalination. Knowing the DOD has made advances in desalination technology and that lack of clean water is a factor in destabilization around the world, the bill requires the DOD to provide further information on the recent advances in desalination technologies and how those advances have been shared with other Government agencies. I continue to work towards stability and security in Somalia. The bill affirms the DOD’s bi-lateral security cooperation and counter-terrorism efforts to improve the security situation in Somalia and address terrorist threats from Al-Shabaab. To watch the full committee mark-up, visit the House Armed Services Committee YouTube Channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCD506yORW2voSanqEgLOUIQ
4.28.2016	Ranking Member Adam Smith, in consultation with Congressman James Clyburn, introduced a measure that would have withdrawn support for ROTC at The Citadel if the Confederate battle flag continued to fly. In order to avoid voting on that measure, Republicans introduced and passed a modified amendment that would allow the flag to continue flying if The Citadel’s Board of Visitors voted to remove the flag, even though such a vote cannot remove the flag under South Carolina law. “This failure to take down the Confederate battle flag is an extremely disappointing statement of principles,” said Smith. “Needless to say this symbol of slavery, rebellion, racial oppression, and resistance to the rule of law is not appropriate to fly over institutions that train our next generation of military officers, and it is bizarre to allow the flag to fly above an academy when the military services do not allow the same flag to be displayed in servicemembers’ rooms. They should have voted to take it down instead of dodging the issue.”
4.28.2016	“Terrorism is about spreading fear. As we combat violent extremism and the spread of dangerous propaganda, we must recognize that hateful ideology originates both overseas and at home. Since the 9/11 attacks, domestic terrorists have killed more people in the United States than foreign terrorist organizations. Numerous domestic terror acts, including those at the Seattle Jewish Federation, Planned Parenthood in Colorado, Oklahoma City, the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, the Sikh Temple in Wisconsin and the Holocaust Museum in Washington, DC, have made clear that violent extremism is not limited to a single ideology, nor does it always breed on foreign soil. “Earlier this week, the House of Representatives considered H.R. 4820, the Combating Terrorist Recruitment Act. Notably, this bill weakens national security by excluding domestic terror organizations from its focus and ignoring that terrorists are inspired by a broad number of religious, political and ideological beliefs. “Our national security approach must build people-to-people ties, address the root causes of extremism and empower local partners to prevent violent extremism, both here and abroad. In the Puget Sound region, we have seen the damage that hateful and violent rhetoric inflicts on our local community centers and places of worship. We must remain vigilant in our fight against terror networks that seek to do us harm. By opening our eyes to the realities of foreign and domestic terror networks, we can work together to build a more just and peaceful society as we keep America safe.”
4.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Members Adam Smith, Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, and Elijah Cummings of, respectively, the House Armed Services Committee, the House Education and the Workforce Committee, and the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform issued the following statements today after learning about forthcoming efforts to ban implementation of the Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces Executive Order via an amendment in the FY 2017 Defense Authorization Act. The Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces Executive Order would require defense contractors who have committed serial violations of employment, safety, and minimum wage laws or serial discrimination based on race, gender, pregnancy, disability, or veterans status to disclose that they have done so to the government when applying for new contracts. Ranking Member Smith made the following statement: “We should not be making it easier for companies that violate labor, safety, or gender and racial equity laws to acquire government contracts. It is common sense that when the Defense Department or Nuclear Security Administration is choosing who it will work with, it should have sufficient information about any violations to know what it is getting into. Our labor and nondiscrimination laws exist to uphold the rights of Americans, and we need to stand up for those rights instead of trying to hide evidence that they have been violated. I will oppose any efforts to include language overriding this executive order in this National Defense Authorization Act.” Ranking Member Scott made the following statement: “We are deeply concerned about possible amendments to limit the application of the Fair Pay and Safe Workplace Executive Order as part of the Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Authorization Act. This EO, when implemented, will improve the information available to contracting officers to identify companies which engage in repeated, willful or pervasive violations of employment, non-discrimination, labor, or workplace safety laws. Congress should reject any attempts to provide taxpayer dollars to companies who repeatedly flaunt federal workplace laws or deprive workers of their labor and civil rights.” Ranking Member Cummings made the following statement: “It is extremely troubling that House Republicans are trying to pass a measure that would have the effect of encouraging corporate misconduct. The President’s Executive Order establishes a fair and consistent process to ensure that federal contractors pay their workers what they earn, maintain a safe working environment, and do not discriminate on the bases of race, gender, or disability. This is simple common sense, and it should be celebrated and enforced, not criticized and overturned.”
4.22.2016	“Earth Day is an annual reminder that each individual has a role to play in protecting and preserving our environment. The Pacific Northwest has a proud history of supporting the environmental movement and I am honored to represent a district that truly understands the importance of curbing climate change and caring for our environment. “I believe that we must continue to fight for communities, both around the world and here in the U.S., who are the most vulnerable to unpredictable temperatures, rising sea levels, and extreme weather. In addition to environmental and structural damages inflicted by extreme climate events, people with lower incomes often experience more negative health effects than other groups, making climate change a public health crisis. As the second-largest emitter, with only about five percent of the world’s population, it is the responsibility of the U.S. to lead by example in reducing carbon emissions and supporting renewable energy technologies. “Earth Day 2016 is an opportunity for the international community to come together to combat the very real threat of climate change. April 22, 2016 marks the first day that the Paris Agreement formed at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will be open for signature. This agreement calls for global cooperation on addressing the causes and effects of climate change. We must take decisive action now to reduce the impacts of global climate change in order to protect our planet for the generations to come.”
4.15.2016	“In November 2015, the President took legal and necessary executive action to reform our broken immigration system by expanding both the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program and the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. In support of the President’s action, I joined members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus this morning on the steps of the Capitol. It is critical that we continue to show support for the President's lawful action, in advance of the Supreme Court's scheduled session on Monday, April 18, 2016 to hear oral arguments in the United States v. Texas case. “The President's common-sense immigration executive actions are authorized by existing laws passed by Congress. I have joined my colleagues in Congress in signing an Amicus Brief to the U.S. Supreme Court expressing that both DAPA and DACA are lawful. Once implemented, DAPA and DACA will be able to bring millions of families and children who are part of our communities and live in constant fear of deportation out of the shadows.”
4.12.2016	“We must close the gender pay gap. Despite the many positive transformative changes in our nation’s workforce, women still get paid less for equal work and make 79 cents for every dollar earned compared to their male counterparts. This disparity particularly impacts women of color and cannot continue. “Equal Pay Day symbolizes how much more the average woman in the United States must work to earn what a man earned in the previous year. Today marks these extra 103 days, a day where we recognize how much work remains to achieve pay equality. In addition to wage disparities, women are shut out of leadership and management roles far too often. As women continue to make up a growing percentage of our workforce, the gender wage gap is an increasing burden to working families and will limit our nation’s future economic success. “As we recognize Equal Pay Day, we must continue fighting for policies that move us towards a fairer and more equal society. Congress must implement policies that address the wage gap, such as the Paycheck Fairness Act. I am a proud cosponsor of this legislation that would help ensure women are paid equally for equal work. We also must expand access to affordable child care and paid family leave that can further help women enter and remain in the workforce. When women succeed, America succeeds.”
4.1.2016	“I am disappointed that the Boeing Company has decided to cut as many as 4,000 jobs in Washington state by June 2016, with additional cuts possible by the end of the year. Although we do not yet know exactly where in our state the job cuts will take place, the reduction of Boeing’s workforce here will have devastating impacts on our region’s shared prosperity. The effect will be felt immediately by the thousands of hard-working employees—and their families—who have contributed greatly to Boeing’s growth and have demonstrated loyalty to the company over the years. I hope that Boeing will recognize that the world-class workforce in the Pacific Northwest is necessary for their continued success.”
3.22.2016	I extend my deepest sympathies to the victims, their families, and the Belgian people in light of today’s terrorist attacks. The cowardly violence in Brussels illustrates the danger that extreme ideologies continue to pose to the international community and our common humanity. I condemn in the strongest possible terms today’s inhuman attacks which deliberately targeted innocent people, and call for unity in our common efforts against terrorism and extremism.
3.18.2016	“The family and friends of Nestora Salgado have been unrelenting in their pursuit of justice for Nestora. Today, after over two years of wrongful imprisonment, and a recent UN decision calling Nestora’s detention illegal and arbitrary, the false charges against Nestora have been dropped by Mexican authorities. Nestora has been released from prison and is now able to return home to the United States. “I join Nestora’s family in celebrating her freedom, and extend my sincere thanks to all those throughout the Seattle region, the international community and to the various human rights advocates who have joined together in calling for Nestora’s freedom from this unlawful detention. I am thrilled to know that Nestora can now return home to her family who have been relentless in their difficult fight to free her.”
3.17.2016	“Congress has a duty to enact a budget that responsibly invests in our nation’s future and grows our economy for all Americans. Unfortunately, the Fiscal Year 2017 Budget proposal released by House Republicans earlier this week would take our country in the wrong direction by demanding the most devastating cuts ever proposed by Republicans on the Budget Committee. The Republican budget pushed through the House Budget Committee yesterday despite opposition from every Democrat on the committee, calls for $6.5 trillion in spending cuts that cripple important investments in education and infrastructure and breaks our promise to our seniors by ending the Medicare guarantee. The proposal slashes funding for our nation’s core priorities, stifles future economic growth, and comes at the expense of our middle class. “I support the approach laid out by President Obama earlier this year. The President’s vision for a strong future creates broad-based economic opportunities for all Americans while keeping our nation safe. The President’s budget follows the funding levels agreed to in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (BBA). Although enactment of the BBA began to address our budget challenges in a more balanced way by providing necessary relief from sequestration in FY 2016 and FY 2017, it does not completely address our long term budget challenges. The BBA does not compensate for the damage already inflicted by arbitrary cuts imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), and it only provides for short-term relief. Sequestration levels remain in effect for discretionary funding for Fiscal Years 2018 through 2021. To truly address our budget challenges, Congress must eliminate sequestration and repeal the BCA caps. “As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I know that national security involves much more than defense. We must also properly resource diplomacy and development so that our budgets reflect a holistic approach to national security itself. I recognize that while we must invest in a budget that responsibly addresses our national security challenges, focusing on defense priorities alone would be insufficient. We need to repair and improve our infrastructure, incentivize research and innovation, increase access to education and health care, invest in housing and training our workforce, all while supporting small businesses and working families. These important aspects of our nation’s economy contribute to our enduring national strength. “We must empower the American people and those charged with protecting our nation’s security by giving them the means to plan. Moving forward, the House, Senate, and the President must work together to eliminate sequestration altogether and implement a long-term spending plan that provides certainty to the Department of Defense and our Armed Forces, as well as to the entire federal government. It is critical that we provide hard-working American families the tools they need to succeed.”
3.11.2016	“The Islamic Republic of Iran recently conducted a series of ballistic missile tests and may be planning others. While these tests do not violate the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), they do violate a separate United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR), and I strongly condemn Iran’s actions. As we weigh options to appropriately respond to Iran’s violations, we must be mindful of the broader context of Iran’s internal political dynamic and that more reform-minded candidates who supported the JCPOA made gains in Iran’s recent elections—to the displeasure of Iran’s hardliners. “I recognize that the path forward with Iran will see challenging and uncertain times. We must also recognize that millions of Iranians support the JCPOA, further integration, and a brighter, more hopeful future for their country. We call again on Iran’s leaders to give their people the freedom they so clearly desire and to immediately cease provocative actions, including, but not limited to, their ongoing state sponsorship of terror and missile tests that clearly violate United Nations resolutions.”
3.3.2016	“Iran just conducted its first elections since agreeing to the multilateral deal to give up its nuclear weapons program. While it is true that the Islamic Republic of Iran determines who may run for election, it is also true that the Iranian people turned out in large numbers to support candidates who backed the nuclear deal and want improved relations with the rest of the world. “To be clear, we have very serious differences with the Iranian regime. The conduct of the recent elections is deeply concerning due to the lack of transparency, censorship concerns, and limited freedom of expression and assembly. Furthermore, Iran's active state sponsorship of terror continues to threaten Israel and to destabilize the region. Moving forward Iran must cease all support to terrorist groups. “The path forward with Iran will see challenging and uncertain times. That said, we must not ignore the positive voices in Iran. These elections do not reflect a revolutionary change in the regime, but they do show that millions of Iranians support progress and that many of them want a brighter, more constructive future for their country. Iran’s leaders must give their people the freedom they so clearly desire. “Despite our many disagreements with the Iranian regime, the elections show that our disputes do not, by definition, extend to the Iranian people. I hope that the Iranian government will see the strong desire for reform, be responsive to the will of the Iranian people, and formulate policies that create a better future for Iranians, the region, and the world.”
2.23.2016	“Today, the President announced his plan to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. I have long called for an exit strategy from our use of Guantanamo for detention purposes, and I am encouraged by the President’s plan to responsibly close the facility. I look forward to reviewing the full details of the plan as they become available. “The President has provided a practicable plan for closing the facility. Congress must now work with the Administration in good faith to effectuate closure. We must start by lifting the current bans on transferring detainees into the United States and on constructing or modifying facilities within the United States to house Guantanamo detainees, bans that have too long served as barriers to closing the detention center. “The establishment of a detention facility at Guantanamo was misguided from the beginning, and its operation stands in stark contrast to our nation’s values. Today, Guantanamo continues to be an international eyesore that undercuts our national security, damages our credibility with our international partners, and is a colossal waste of taxpayer dollars. The President’s plan offers a responsible way forward that would address security concerns, pursue criminal prosecutions, and produce net savings on the order of $335 million over ten years and $1.7 billion over twenty years. It is far past time to end this chapter in our country’s history and to close this facility.”
2.23.2016	WASHINGTON—Reps. Keith Ellison (D-MN), Juan Vargas (D-CA), and Adam Smith (D-WA), released the following statement today after sending a letter to President Hassan Sheikh Mohamoud of Somalia congratulating him on signing a new Anti-Money Laundering and Combatting Terror Financing Bill into law. Reps. Tom Emmer (R-MN) and Joyce Beatty (D-OH) also signed the letter. The full text of the letter is available here. “This law ensures that money for food, education, and small business start-ups sent from relatives abroad can reach families in Somalia without falling into the hands of extremist groups like Al-Shabaab and Daesh,” Rep. Ellison said. “By signing the strong Anti-Money Laundering Law passed by the Somali Parliament, President Mohamud is taking a critical step to restore the remittances lifeline and make it easier to combat terror, and that is cause for celebration.” “I’m happy to learn President Mohamud signed the Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) Bill into law today,” Rep. Vargas said. “Remittances are crucial to ensuring the safety and stability of millions of Somalis.” “I applaud Somali President Mohamud for signing important anti-money laundering legislation into law. I continue to hear from and value the views of my constituents about the critical issue of remittances and understand that we need to ensure that residents of the 9th District and Somali-Americans everywhere are able to once again send money back to their families which pays for food, health care, and education,” Rep. Smith said. “I will continue to fight for policies that reflect the importance of fighting terrorism, increase cooperation with Somalia wherever possible, and provide for the flow of much-needed support to families in Somalia.”
2.22.2016	“I commend the City of Seattle’s Resolution 31651 urging Mexican authorities to release Ms. Nestora Salgado and requesting the State Department to assist in securing her release. “Throughout Nestora’s detention, I have consistently called for her release. In August 2014, I wrote to Secretary of State John Kerry to call attention to Nestora’s case and to alert the Department of State to the concerning abuses of human rights and lack of due process Nestora has experienced throughout her detention. Since that time, I have engaged with U.S. and Mexican government officials in hopes of securing Nestora’s release and advocating for her safety and well-being. “As part of my continued calls for her freedom, in October 2015 I again wrote to Secretary Kerry advocating for Department of State assistance for the Salgado family and Nestora’s legal advocate Seattle University School of Law Professor Thomas Antkowiak in advance of hearings at the Inter-American Human Rights Commission. The Department of State responded by attending the October 2015 hearings, meeting with the family, and through continued engagement on Nestora’s case. “My office has remained involved and in direct communication with the State Department and Professor Antkowiak in the wake of the Inter-American Human Rights Commission hearings. After being notified of the recent United Nations Working Group decision calling for Nestora’s release, my office immediately contacted Professor Antkowiak and the Department of State, and continues to advocate for leveraging the recent decision for Nestora’s immediate release. “I am committed to working toward the safe return of Nestora to her family. The United Nations Working Group Report is further evidence that the Mexican government’s detention of Nestora is illegal and that she should be released immediately. It is unacceptable for the Mexican government to continue to imprison Nestora. I will remain involved and engaged on this critical issue until she is released and am grateful to Councilmember Kshama Sawant and the Seattle City Council for their calling attention to Nestora’s case. As a community, we must continue to work together to ensure Nestora is released and is returned safely home to her family in Renton.”
2.12.2016	“Over the past three years, sequestration and its drastic and across-the-board cuts have negatively impacted our economy, disrupted our government, and harmed our nation. As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have long called for ending the sequester. This week, I introduced the Relief from Sequestration Act of 2016 (H.R. 4512) to repeal the sequestration mechanism in its entirety. My bill would end the threat of future government shutdowns and looming draconian cuts to important national priorities. “H.R. 4512 would end years of harmful and indiscriminate cuts to discretionary programs by eliminating the $1.2 trillion of discretionary reductions that are required by the Budget Control Act of 2011 and that will again take effect in 2018. My bill does not deny the fact that we need a comprehensive, long-term deficit reduction deal. We absolutely do. This legislation recognizes that discretionary spending accounts, and the economy, should no longer be held hostage by the threat of sequestration while Congress debates and acts on the larger budget changes that are fundamentally necessary. We have a deficit problem that must be addressed, but we should not continue to damage our economy and undermine national security in the process. “The President’s Fiscal Year 2017 Budget, released earlier this week, eliminates the sequester after 2018 and recognizes that sequestration was never intended to be implemented, but was instead meant to force Congress to have an honest conversation about the budget. The sequestration mechanism is not necessary to reduce our deficits. The Bipartisan Budget Agreement signed into law last October began to address our budget challenges in a more balanced way, but the looming threat of sequestration continues to limit the ability of government to plan in the long term. With the threat of sequestration eliminated, Democrats and Republicans in Congress can finally come together and focus on crafting and implementing a stable and responsible budget that reflects our nation’s priorities without a looming budget threat.” Background Sequestration was originally manufactured to force Congress to make difficult decisions about deficit reduction. Unfortunately, Congress failed to find a solution to reduce our deficit and the devastating mechanism of sequestration took effect. Under sequestration, automatic and arbitrary cuts were applied through fiscal year 2021, decimating discretionary spending. The sequester forestalled the sound planning needed for meaningful investments in national security, the workforce, transportation infrastructure, education, health care, public safety, housing, innovation, small business development, and many other facets of enduring national strength. These cuts have also had unacceptable and serious economic implications, slowing the recovery, and disrupting regular order in Congress. While Congress has succeeded in negotiating proposals to minimize the immediate impact of sequestration, these are set to expire within a few years. The solution must be to permanently end sequestration.
2.9.2016	“The President’s budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2017 sets up an important debate about how our nation can continue to build an economy that allows for every American to attain economic prosperity. President Obama’s budget proposal funds critical investments to expand access to education, focuses on improving Information Technology to best deliver Federal services, and prioritizes sustainable research and development programs to help combat climate change. The President’s budget outlines his vision for a strong and secure future that allows hard-working Americans to achieve economic prosperity while keeping our nation safe. “The Administration’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget also includes elimination of the sequester after 2018. Sequestration was never intended to be implemented, but instead was meant to force Congress to have an honest conversation about the budget. Over the past three years, sequestration and its drastic and across-the-board cuts has stood in the way of Congress enacting a stable budget that reflects our country’s priorities. I continue to call for an end to the sequester and have introduced the Relief from Sequestration Act. Eliminating sequestration now is a necessary first step in Republicans and Democrats coming together to implement a long-term spending plan that continues the progress we have made. “I am encouraged by the recent willingness in Congress to come together and focus on crafting a more bipartisan path forward on the budget. The Bipartisan Budget Agreement signed into law last October began to address our budget challenges in a more balanced way. A responsible budget must prioritize education and encourage innovative growth that will stimulate economic mobility. Meeting the challenges we face as a country must also include comprehensive immigration reform and build upon the President’s recent actions to both reform our nation’s criminal justice system and address the growing epidemic of gun violence. I support the President’s roadmap for a fiscal path that will both provide for our national security and reinforce the building blocks necessary to continue to grow our economy for all Americans.”
2.4.2016	“On February 1, 2016, the case of Renton resident Nestora Salgado received long overdue legitimacy from the United Nations (UN) Working Group on Arbitrary Detention. In their legal decision dated December 17, 2015 made public this week, the international panel of independent human rights experts announced their conclusion that Nestora’s continued detention by the Mexican government is illegal and arbitrary. The formal UN Working Group Report calls for Nestora’s immediate release. Nestora has been imprisoned for over two years, following an August 2013 arrest for her leadership in a community police group in her hometown of Olinalá in the state of Guerrero. “Throughout Nestora’s imprisonment, I have urged for her release. In August of 2014, I wrote to Secretary of State John Kerry to call attention to Nestora’s case and to alert the Department of State to the concerning abuses of human rights and due process Nestora has experienced throughout her detention. Since that time, I have engaged with U.S. and Mexican government officials in hopes of securing Nestora’s release and advocating for her safety and well-being. “As part of my continued calls for her freedom, in October 2015 I again wrote to Secretary Kerry advocating for Department of State assistance for the Salgado family and Nestora’s legal advocate Seattle University School of Law Professor Thomas Antkowiak in advance of hearings at the Inter-American Human Rights Commission. The Department of State responded by attending the October 2015 hearings, meeting with the family, and continued engagement on Nestora’s case. “My office has remained involved and in touch with the State Department and Professor Antkowiak in the wake of the Inter-American Human Rights Commission hearings. After being notified of the UN decision, my office immediately contacted Professor Antkowiak and the Department of State to advocate for leveraging the recent decision for Nestora’s immediate release. “I am committed to working toward the safe return of Nestora to her family. The UN Working Group Report is further evidence that the Mexican government’s detention of Nestora is illegal and that she should be released immediately. It is unacceptable for the Mexican government to continue to imprison Nestora, and I will remain involved and engaged on this critical issue until she is released.”
2.2.2016	“A functioning justice system must work to protect the innocent and simultaneously hold accountable and rehabilitate those who commit crimes. The President’s recently announced executive action reforms the federal prison system, following an extensive review by the Justice Department. “We can no longer perpetuate the problems of a broken criminal justice system that harshly condemns those who have offended and served their sentences to continued failure. The President’s announcement recognizes long-standing structural failures in our corrections system. Incarcerated individuals who are placed in solitary confinement—for months, even years at a time— can experience lasting psychological damage. The consequences of extended isolation are profound on the human psyche, especially when experienced at a young age, and greatly limit prospects for successful reintegration into society. The President’s action came on the same day that the United States Supreme Court recognized the danger and consequences of harsh sentences imposed on our youth. In their January 25, 2016 ruling in Montgomery v. Louisiana, the Supreme Court ruled that juveniles previously sentenced to life without parole must be allowed to appeal for a lesser sentence. “Comprehensive reforms to our system are long-overdue. While there is no single solution, I have outlined a roadmap of criminal justice reform initiatives at the federal level that begin to address the systemic inequities of our current system. I was an early cosponsor of legislation to study the use of solitary confinement, and determine best practices for federal prisons to follow. I support measures to provide sentencing reform and safety-valve programs, and better assist former inmates as they reenter society. It is critical that we reinforce initiatives such as “banning the box” on job applications to expand employment opportunities, as well as increased funding for low-income individuals to access legal services and help them navigate an incredibly complex judicial system. Washington State was an early advocate for reform, and the data from their reforms at the state level show that those who were placed in solitarily confinement had a 20-25% higher rate of recidivism. Leadership at the federal level is critical to ensure wider enactment of restorative justice programs like those spearheaded by Washington State. “The President has challenged our nation to seriously reflect on a system that has failed too many Americans. The Justice Department’s recommendations provide a framework for the use of solitary confinement, with the goal of working to provide opportunities for redemption rather than inflict harm. Congress must now join the President by supporting reforms that care for offenders humanely and provide dignity and a second chance to those who are rejoining and contributing to their communities.” ###
1.18.2016	“Tomorrow, I will undergo a hip replacement procedure to correct problems stemming from my October 2014 hip surgery. In late 2014 and early 2015, I had two hip surgeries, one on each hip. Over the last several months, I have encountered ongoing difficulties with my recovery from the first surgery, necessitating a further procedure. “I look forward to a speedy recovery and to returning to Washington, D.C. and attending meetings and community events throughout the 9th District. As I recuperate, I will continue to closely monitor legislative activity in the U.S. House, consistently submit for the Congressional Record how I would have voted on any legislation considered in the House, and maximize the number of in-district meetings I take while in Washington state. Throughout my recovery, my staff will remain engaged in the community and will continue to take meetings in D.C. “Due to tomorrow’s procedure, and the medical concerns related to traveling, I will unavoidably miss votes in the U.S. House. For every vote taken by the House during my absence, I am committed to ensuring that my constituents have access to the appropriate records so they know where I stand on the issues. My position on each matter considered during my time away will appear in the Congressional Record and will be accessible through my congressional website.”
1.18.2016	“Martin Luther King, Jr. has inspired generations of Americans to thoughtfully challenge inequality. Dr. King wisely advised that injustice at any level of society requires our attention, and his work continues to guide us as we collectively work to address injustices in our community and throughout the world. “Today, Dr. King’s legacy serves as a constant reminder that broad-based economic opportunity is necessary for our nation to continue to create the best and the brightest leaders. To achieve Dr. King’s vision, we must advocate for equitable access to education, take meaningful steps to fix our broken criminal justice system, provide affordable housing and transportation options and guarantee the right to vote for all Americans. By joining together as a nation to accomplish these common goals, we can truly honor Dr. King’s legacy as a civil rights leader and continue to encourage civic engagement among the diverse communities of our nation.”
1.12.2016	“In his final State of the Union address, President Obama spoke of his leadership out of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. His administration, together with partners in Congress, has advanced policies that grew our economy and created new living-wage jobs. With 14 million new private sector jobs created over the past 70 months, and the longest continued period of private sector job growth in our history, our nation is looking forward to the future with renewed hope. As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I truly believe the President understands the responsibility the United States has as a global leader and that we must continue to call for inclusive governance around the world. The Administration has taken important executive actions on immigration, and recognizes the need to fully address immigration reform. I continue to call for this important action to be taken before the end of his term. To address climate change the Administration has taken significant steps to ensure the well-being of future generations. “As the Representative for the Ninth Congressional District of Washington state, I am proud that our state has been a leader on many of the policy areas the President highlighted this evening. Washington state has been a leader in raising the minimum wage and combatting climate change. We have recognized the need for comprehensive background checks for gun sales and the importance of addressing mental health to keep our nation safe. We also celebrate that we are a nation of immigrants and refugees, and that our diversity continues to make us stronger. “Tonight, as we turn our attention to the great deal of work that remains, I will be focusing on creating broad-based economic opportunity for all and addressing inequities in our society. We must expand access to education at all levels. Reforming our criminal justice system and increasing affordable housing and accessible transportation options are a necessity in making opportunities equitable for all. To keep families together and ensure the safety of our nation, we must enact comprehensive immigration reform. And as free and fair elections are the cornerstone of our democracy, we must recommit ourselves to guaranteeing the right to vote in a just electoral system for all Americans. “I look forward to continuing to work with the Administration and with my colleagues in Congress to bring our country together and ensure that we make government work better for everyone.”
1.7.2016	“I am extremely disturbed by recent accounts of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) actions in several states that are specifically targeting undocumented women and children from South and Central America. It has been reported that these raids have already resulted in the detention of 121 individuals, including in many cases, individuals who were not originally the focus of targeted enforcement actions. Today, I sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson to raise my serious concerns about these activities and to call for additional information to be made public about the agency’s actions. “I am particularly troubled that in carrying out sweeping new enforcement activity, individuals may not be fully afforded their rights to due process. Many of the families who are the reported targets of ongoing ICE enforcement came to the United States after fleeing extreme violence in their home countries. Many may now be returned to extraordinarily dangerous situations without being afforded all opportunities to seek asylum in the United States. These families, particularly children, are a vulnerable population and must be afforded the guarantee of access to all avenues in our judicial and immigration systems. “Additionally, I am extremely alarmed and frustrated by the lack of transparency about ICE’s actions and the poor communication between ICE, DHS, and Congress. ICE and DHS have fallen far short of being forthcoming with the public, affected communities, and Congress about the policy objectives and impacts of these enforcement activities, or whether those targeted by the raids have had full access to legal options. American values demand that we afford due process and legal protections in all circumstances. “These DHS and ICE actions, and the resulting deportations are just the latest example of the very serious need to reform our nation’s immigration system. We cannot afford to wait any longer and I remain committed to and focused on enacting comprehensive immigration reform so that families can remain together and our nation is kept safe.” January 14, 2016 UPDATE: On January 8, 2016, immediately following my letter to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, I joined 146 of my colleagues in urging the President to suspend removal operations of Central American refugee women and children, granting them Temporary Protected Status. It is crucial that a comprehensive refugee strategy is put into place by the Administration to provide adequate screening, meaningful legal counsel and due process, and a comprehensive regional approach that will help to ensure these individuals are treated fairly and have a chance to live in safety. Declaración del Representante Smith sobre las Acciones del Servicio de Inmigración y Control de Aduanas (ICE) 7 de enero de 2016 Contact: Rebecca Bryant, 202-225-8901 “Me encuentro extremadamente perturbado por los reportes recientes sobre las acciones del Servicio de Inmigración y Control de Aduanas en varios estados que son enfocadas hacia mujeres y niños de centro y sudamérica. Según reportes, las redadas han resultado en la detención de 121 individuos, incluyendo en varios casos, individuos quienes no eran el enfoque de acciones dirigidas. Hoy, mande una carta a Jeh Johnson el Secretario del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (DHS) para expresar mis inquietudes sobre estas acciones y pedirle que la agencia haga pública información suplementaria sobre su operación. En particular me preocupa que en el proceso de llevar a cabo nuevas actividades de control, los sujetos pueden haber sido despojados de sus derechos judiciales. Muchas de las familias quienes son los sujetos de acciones en marcha de ICE vinieron a los Estados Unidos huyendo de la violencia extrema en sus países. Ahora muchos pueden serán regresados a situaciones extremadamente peligrosas sin haberles otorgado la oportunidad de buscar asilo en los Estados Unidos. Estas familias, particularmente los niños, son una población vulnerable y se les debe de ofrecer acceso a todas las oportunidades en nuestro sistema judiciales y migratorio. Adicionalmente, estoy extremadamente alarmado y frustrado con la falta de transparencia en las acciones de ICE y la falta de comunicación entre ICE, DHS, y el Congreso. ICE y DHS no han entablado comunicación con el público, las comunidades afectadas ni con el Congreso para dar a conocer los objetivos e impacto de sus actividades, o si los afectados de las redadas tuvieron acceso a sus derechos legales. Los valores de nuestro país requieren que le demos bajo cualquier circunstancia derechos judiciales y protecciones legales a todas las personas. Estas acciones de DHS e ICE, y los resultados de las deportaciones son el ejemplo más reciente de la necesidad de reformar nuestro sistema migratorio. No podemos permitir esperar más tiempo y sigo determinado y enfocado en promulgar una reforma migratoria para que familias puedan permanecer unidas y nuestro país sea un país seguro. ### Actualización 14 de Enero, 2016: El 8 de enero de 2016, inmediatamente después de mi carta al Secretario de Seguridad Nacional Jeh Johnson, me uní con 146 de mis colegas para pedirle al Presidente que suspenda las operaciones de deportación de mujeres y niños refugiados de Centroamérica, dándoles protección temporal. Es crucial que la Administración lleve a cabo una estrategia comprensiva para refugiados que incluya la verificación de antecedentes, asistencia legal y un enfoque regional comprensivo que ayudará a asegurar que estos individuos sean tratados justamente y tengan la oportunidad de vivir de manera segura.
1.5.2016	“I support the executive actions taken by the President today that are necessary to address the epidemic of gun violence facing our nation. These changes will help to limit senseless gun violence and keep our communities safe. “America has been witness to horrific acts of violence that we can no longer continue to ignore. These executive actions support policies and efforts to reduce gun violence in our communities. They will increase the number of critical background checks that are completed prior to an individual purchasing a firearm - keeping guns out of the hands of violent criminals and those seeking to do us harm. Additionally, the President’s actions focus on increasing both mental health treatment and the frequency of reporting data to the national background check system - as well as supporting the future development of gun safety technologies. “Ultimately, addressing gun violence is both a legal and cultural problem that must be addressed at every level of our society. We must do more to understand the potential causes and threats presented by gun violence in our nation, and engage in conversations with communities and law enforcement. Any changes in federal law will require strong support and action from the American public. As a member of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, I will continue to support legislative and executive branch policy proposals to protect our children and communities. “These executive actions, alone, are not enough. The President is committed to addressing gun violence. Congress must fulfill its responsibility to protect Americans by enacting commonsense gun safety reforms. Reasonable reforms are attainable; in Washington state, we now require universal background checks for gun purchases. We must have a comprehensive, national plan to fully address the gun violence problem we face and I will work with my colleagues in Congress to address the crisis of gun violence afflicting our nation.”
1.4.2016	“Throughout his career as a psychiatrist, member of the United States Navy, and as an elected official, Jim McDermott has always put service above self. As one of the strongest progressives in the United States Congress during his 14-term tenure, Jim has served his constituents in Washington's 7th congressional district with vigor, grace, and tenacity. "Jim's dedication to ensuring people were able to live better and more productive lives led him to be a leading proponent for legislation that continues to positively impact our country. His dedication to seeing the Affordable Care Act implemented saw Americans, for the first time, having meaningful access to high-quality health care. He also helped make important changes to our foster care system that now keeps siblings together and gives kids health care resources after they turn 18 years old. As a psychiatrist for the United States Navy, Jim knew the importance of supporting our veterans, and was a leading advocate for veterans' mental health and suicide prevention programs. "Throughout his time serving the public in the Washington State Legislature to his tenure in Congress, Jim has been a tireless advocate for our region. Jim’s voice will be missed in our Washington state delegation, and I thank Jim for his service and friendship.”
12.18.2015	“Today I voted to pass the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act. The bill provides for $1.067 trillion of discretionary spending, following the two-year budget agreement signed into law in October 2015, as well as $73.693 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funds. The Omnibus bill passed by the House and the Senate today funds our national and economic security for the next year, and is an important step towards Congress fulfilling its responsibility to the American people to meet our fiscal obligations for the next year. “The Omnibus bill includes funding for programs that invest in our future and support education, encourage economic growth, and modernize our infrastructure. It is reassuring that Republicans showed a willingness to compromise and removed a number of ideological riders that were debated throughout the failed FY 2016 appropriations process earlier this year. This Omnibus bill and the certainty it will provide our economy, the Department of Defense, and the entire federal government is preferable to governing from budget crisis to budget crisis. The agreement provides a one-year window of opportunity to address our core budget problems in the long-term. “Congress, together with the American people, must have an honest conversation about the budget realities that we face. We must use the time that this Omnibus bill provides to engage in productive conversations to agree to a long-term spending plan that supports the middle class and grow our economy.”
12.17.2015	“I voted against the tax extender bill considered in the House today because it is inequitable and leaves our nation’s finances worse off. The $622 billion tax package extends many tax breaks while ignoring the reality that we simply do not collect enough revenue to fund the important programs that help create a strong economy. “While a number of helpful provisions are included, such as a permanent extension of both the Research and Development (R&D) Tax Credit and the State & Local Sales Tax Deduction, the enormous cost of this un-paid for bill and its impact on the deficit is concerning. Ultimately, positive aspects of this tax package do not come close to outweighing the legislation’s imbalanced priorities and decreased revenues. “Over the last fifteen years, we have cut revenue by trillions of dollars and seen our debt increase substantially while our infrastructure has suffered. If we hope to balance the budget while expanding economic opportunity, investing in innovation and infrastructure, and strengthening the working class, we must adopt a responsible tax system. We need sound and forward-looking policies to address our budget issues in a comprehensive way that properly balances spending priorities while raising revenue.”
12.8.2015	Our nation’s diversity is our greatest strength. In the strongest possible terms, I condemn Donald Trump’s recent proposal to bar all Muslims from entering the United States. This rhetoric follows earlier absurd statements from Mr. Trump calling for the creation of a database to track Muslims in our communities, under the guise of protecting national security. With these irrational statements, Mr. Trump both misrepresents Americans and puts our national security at risk by doing exactly what ISIS wants. These unintelligent words feed the anti-American narrative and empower ISIS to incorrectly paint the American people as anti-Islamic. The United States is proud to be a nation of immigrants founded on the equal protection of all. I am deeply honored to represent an incredibly diverse district, and I believe in following through on the promise of ensuring the fundamental rights of life, liberty and equal opportunity, for all groups of people.
12.3.2015	A well-functioning and efficient surface transportation network is critical for future economic growth. Investment in our nation's infrastructure and public transit provides jobs for thousands, allows for the efficient movement of goods that keeps our economy growing, and ensures the safety of countless lives. Today, the House passed H.R. 22, the bipartisan conference report of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act. H.R. 22 is a long-term five-year extension of the Highway Trust Fund (HTF) that allows for funding of projects to continue through 2020, and authorizes appropriations from the trust fund to continue through FY 2022. This legislation creates a program for nationally significant freight and highway projects that is to be funded through the HTF, while also establishing a national multimodal freight policy to improve efficiency in the movement of goods across all modes of transportation. In addition, H.R. 22 renews the critically important Export-Import Bank through FY 2019. While the bill provides $281 billion in guaranteed funding for highway, transit, and transportation safety programs over the next five years, $12.8 billion more than provided by the House-passed bill, it includes no new or increased revenues for the HTF. This reauthorization is not perfect and contains problematic provisions. However, I supported this legislation because it gives our states and the economy the certainty that is crucial to continue funding infrastructure projects around the country. A great deal of federal transportation spending is supported by gas tax revenues that are deposited into the HTF. The tax rates on gasoline and diesel fuel are not adjusted for inflation, have not been increased in more than twenty years, and each year lose buying power to pay for transportation improvements and repairs. H.R. 22 extends existing taxes through 2022, but it does not increase gas tax rates or index them to inflation, and it does not address a coming shortfall in revenues for the HTF. While this bill is a necessary step forward, Congress and the American people need to have an honest debate about our budget, national finances and tax policies, and investment in critical infrastructure maintenance and improvements. Our nation's transportation system plays a significant role in our economy and quality of life in our communities. I understand the importance of maintaining and improving highways, roads, bridges, and transit, as well as other types of infrastructure, and I will continue to work in Congress to make responsible investments in these priorities. Today's global economy is more competitive than ever before. In order for the US to maintain its competitive edge, we must fully fund infrastructure investments now. Transportation is an issue that I believe both sides of the aisle can agree on and I look forward to working with my colleagues to fund a reliable, 21st century transportation system that will support economic growth in Washington state and throughout our nation.
12.3.2015	“I applaud Secretary of Defense Ash Carter for taking action on policy guidelines that close certain combat occupations to women. As a result of these changes, anyone, regardless of gender, who can meet operationally relevant standards, will have the opportunity to serve in any position in the Armed Forces of the United States. Prior to today’s announcement, certain exceptions allowed for women to be barred from various combat roles in the military. This critical step towards allowing women to serve in all levels of our military is a strong move towards achieving full equality in our Armed Forces. Today’s announcement is a response to extensive review by the Department of Defense of policies governing the assignment of women in the Armed Forces. The Department of Defense is opening to women the approximately 213,600 previously closed positions spanning 52 closed military occupational specialties. This announcement follows five years of detailed review of current policies. As we saw earlier this year, two women made history as the first female soldiers to complete the Army's Ranger School. Men and woman can, and should, be held to the same standard in the military. I am a committed supporter of equality. I recognize that there is a lot of work that remains to be done to ensure that all Americans are equal under the law, and will continue to advocate for further review of existing policies that ensure equal rights for all service members.”
12.3.2015	I am pleased that the House passed a bipartisan reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) that replaces the flawed policies of No Child Left Behind (NCLB). I voted for S. 1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act of 2015 (ESSA) because reauthorizing the ESEA is the most important action Congress can take to fix the flawed NCLB law. The ESEA technically expired on September 30th of 2007, yet until now Congress had failed to pass a new reauthorization, resulting in devastating impacts on our schools’ ability to succeed. NCLB placed unreasonable standards on students, teachers, and administrators, and led to award-winning schools being labeled as failing. The consequences of NCLB have been felt directly in Washington state where, since the 2014 loss of a U.S. Department of Education waiver, 88 percent of schools have been deemed to be failing under NCLB standards, even when that is clearly not the case. The new ESSA law ends the need for waivers for states and replaces the one-size-fits-all approach of NCLB’s federal accountability system by shifting authority for academic standards and school accountability back to states and local school districts. The bipartisan ESSA conference agreement passed by the House includes aspects that are important to our region, including federal dollars to support locally-tailored improvement in the highest-need schools. The bill also authorizes the Student Support and Academic Enrichment grant program that allocates federal funds based on need, population, as well as school district-identified opportunity gaps in to keep students safe and healthy students, promote well rounded education opportunities such as foreign language and STEM and encourage the effective use of technology in schools. Further, this education legislation improves the Migrant Education Program to prioritize services for migrant students who have dropped out of school. ESSA is a much needed step towards promoting fair and equal access to quality public education and helps reduce disparities between students. Since it was first enacted in 1965, the ESEA has played a key role in providing equal access to quality public education and helping to reduce educational inequalities. Significant work still remains to ensure that all of our students, regardless of where they live, receive high-quality instruction, and I remain committed to working with my colleagues to support students throughout our country.
11.25.2015	"Today, the President signed into law the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016. Taking into account the terms of the Congressional Budget Agreement passed by the House on October 28th, this version of the National Defense Authorization Act gives the Department of Defense and our troops a predictable budget with which to plan, incorporates needed acquisition reform, and provides for the protection of our national security. Recent acts of terror throughout the world highlight the importance of this bill and the need for predictable funding for our Armed Forces. I voted for this revised National Defense Authorization Act. As I made clear then, the revised bill contains problematic provisions. This bill does not address necessary Base Realignment and Closure or personnel reforms. This bill does not close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. I remain concerned with a number of provisions that are now codified into law, but I recognize that the bill is better than the original 2016 National Defense Authorization Act and is essential to providing our troops and the Department of Defense with the certainty they need to plan for the future. As we debate upcoming Appropriations bills and begin to work on the 2017 NDAA, it is imperative that the House, Senate and President work together to eliminate sequestration altogether. There is no doubt that sequestration and budget caps have threatened our national security. To truly empower our Armed Forces to protect our nation's security, combat terrorist networks, and fight extremism, we must eliminate sequestration and implement a long-term spending plan."
11.24.2015	Washington State Leaders: Reject Fear & Panic Surrounding Refugee Resettlement “The senseless violence that has recently occurred in Paris and Beirut has understandably made people fearful and afraid. But we as a community cannot let the fear and panic that has recently gripped our political debate blind us from doing what is right. I commend Governor Inslee for seeing past the political gamesmanship and joining a long list of Washington State leaders who have compassionately opened the doors to our state to those escaping hardship and despair. Instead of trying to score cheap political points at the expense of honest and hard working families trying to flee a war zone, we should see it as our personal and social responsibility as a country built by immigrants to welcome and protect them,” said Congressman Jim McDermott. “We are a state – and a nation – that has always taken the path of promoting freedom and being a beacon of hope and refuge for those fleeing persecution. We’ve hewed to those values even in troubled times, and when we haven’t, we’ve regretted it. We regret that we succumbed to fear. We regret that we lost moorage for who we are as a country. Washington state will continue to promote freedom and be a beacon of hope. We will not succumb to fear or those who try to turn us against those most in need of our help,” said Governor Jay Inslee. “I am proud to join so many in Seattle and across Washington state in our fight to keep our state safe, secure, and free of hate in all of its forms. In Washington state, we understand that immigrants and refugees who come to build better lives for themselves and their families make our state stronger, more vibrant, and more prosperous. We believe that in Washington state, and everywhere, people should be free from hatred and violence no matter where they came from, what their immigration status is, who they love, or where they live. Our country faces serious threats from those who oppose our commitment to openness and tolerance—but we can fight back and do everything possible to keep our families safe without slamming the door on women, children, and families who are fleeing from hatred and violence themselves, and without tossing aside those Washington state and American values that we hold so dear,” said Senator Patty Murray. “The refugee resettlement program is the most scrutinized path of entry into the United States. It involves multiple background checks and can take years. We should remain diligent in our refugee screening, but we must not forget that these people are victims of war and unspeakable violence?. Washingtonians have long had the compassion and courage to welcome people escaping violence and extremism from all parts of the world, of all faiths and backgrounds. I ?am working with my colleagues in the Senate to introduce legislation aimed at strengthening security measures in the visa waiver program and equip our immigration offices with better technology to collect biometric data and other information that will help unmask extremist threats to our communities. Since the founding of this great nation, we have welcomed those seeking freedom and liberty. Now, we must have the strength of a nation created by the diversity and ingenuity of immigrants, and welcome those in need who are granted legal entry to this country,” said Senator Maria Cantwell. “The terror attacks that have taken place throughout the world in recent weeks highlight the continued challenge we face in the fight against terrorist networks. The international community, and the states of our union, must continue to stand united in our common goal of combating extremism if we are to defeat the terror networks that seek to do us harm. As we fight terrorism we must remember that we are a nation of immigrants, and not let terrorist groups define or change who we are. We cannot let fear cloud our judgement, drive policy or destroy the fabric of what America stands for. Rhetoric that proposes excluding all Muslim refugees feeds the anti-American narrative and empowers ISIS to wrongly paint the American people as anti-Islamic. During times of controversy, we need to remember that we are a nation that continually strives for equal protection for all. As we face and address terrorist threats, we must stay true to the values enshrined in our Constitution, and remember the phrase on the Great Seal of the United States: out of many, one. Today, we say to the diverse community of Washington state, comprised of many immigrants and refugees: we stand with you. Whether you worship in a mosque, a synagogue, a church, or not at all, you are welcome here,” said Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09). “Fear is an understandable response to violence and terror. Rather than letting fear drive the way we treat each other, we should undermine terror by living up to American values and helping those feeling violence in Syria and elsewhere throughout the world. Washington state has a long history of welcoming refugees and helping those in need find safety and opportunity for themselves and their families. I am proud to be from a state that recognizes the important contributions that refugees and immigrants make in our communities. I am hopeful that we can continue to lead our country in welcoming people who have lost their homes and are seeking the same things we all want: hope, dignity and opportunity for our families,” said Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02). “What happened in Paris was a tragedy. But if we start rejecting families fleeing violence because of where they are from or their religious beliefs, we will be going against our values and playing into the hands of the terrorists,” Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-01) said. “We must not let fear or ignorance undermine our country’s long tradition of tolerance, openness and opportunity for all who seek refuge in our borders. The safety of Americans is my top priority but we don’t need to close our doors to Syrian women and children to keep Americans safe.” “We must do everything in our power to keep Americans safe. Not only would the bill passed by the House have made it harder for desperate women and children to find safety, it would divert law enforcement and intelligence assets away from those who pose the greatest threat to our security, and instead require investigations of people we know pose no risk. While the attacks in Paris are terrible and it’s critical to keep all Americans safe and secure, it is also important in times like these to remember our values and to continue to serve as a beacon of freedom for the world,” said Congressman Derek Kilmer (WA-06). “After the tragic attacks and loss of life in Paris, it is paramount the cowardly extremists be held accountable for their actions. We must remember however, that the goal of these extremists is to remove us from our founding principles of treating everyone equally under the law, never discriminating on the basis of religion, and welcoming the “huddled masses yearning to breathe free.” We must be led by our values and refuse to be led by fear and ignorance,” said Congressman Denny Heck (WA-10). “Seattle remains a welcoming city for refugees fleeing the civil war in Syria,” said Seattle Mayor Ed Murray. “These families are seeking a safe community to raise their children and build a new peaceful, prosperous life. We must continue to live our American values. We remember the words written on the Statue of Liberty, “Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door!’”
11.23.2015	Today I join our nation and the world in mourning those who lost their lives in Friday's terror attacks in Mali. During this difficult time, my thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of those killed and injured. I extend my sincere thanks to the diplomatic security staff and members of the United States military who assisted in the evacuation efforts, as well as the French and Malian military forces for their heroic actions during the hostage situation in Mali. We must be unrelenting in our fight against terrorism. We cannot allow ourselves to become numb to the terror attacks taking place throughout the world. The international community must continue to stand united in our common goal of combating extremism if we are to defeat the terror networks that seek to do us harm.
11.18.2015	Our number one priority is protecting the United States and the American people from terrorist attacks. In the strongest possible terms, I condemn the cowardly attacks in Paris and send my deepest sympathies to the victims. As we fight terrorism, we must stay true to the values enshrined in our Constitution, remember that we are a nation of immigrants, and not let terrorist groups define or change who we are. The attacks in Paris highlight the continued challenge we face in the fight against terrorist networks. We must be very clear about what our current standards for refugees are. The United States thoroughly vets all refugees. For most refugee applicants, the process takes between 18-24 months. Applicants for refugee status are held to the highest level of security screening through which we evaluate travelers or immigrants to the United States. If as a result of the security process, U.S. security agencies cannot verify details of a potential refugee’s story, that individual cannot enter the United States. Of the millions of law-abiding Syrian refugees, less than 1,800 have been resettled in the United States. Refugees are subjected to a stringent, in-depth interagency vetting process that includes health checks, verifications of biometric information to confirm identity, and multiple layers of biographical and background checks, along with in-person interviews by U.S. officials. Members of this interagency team includes the FBI’s Terrorist Screening Center, the State Department, the Department of Homeland Security, the National Counterterrorism Center, and the Department of Defense. These checks happen before an application is approved and long before a refugee would be able to enter the United States. We cannot let fear cloud our judgement, drive policy or destroy the fabric of what America stands for. We need to be strong and smart to fight terrorism. Excluding all Muslim refugees feeds the anti-American narrative and empowers ISIS to wrongly paint the American people as anti-Islamic. If we turn our backs on refugees, then we risk making ISIS stronger. The Republican Syrian Refugee bill that will be debated on the House floor would immediately shut down resettlement of refugees from the Syria and Iraq region. This rash reaction ignores the fact that all of the Paris attackers identified thus far are either French or Belgian and that many terrorist threats are homegrown. It is wrong to deny asylum to refugees on the basis of inaccurate assumptions, fear and prejudice. We must continue to stand strong as an international community. As we face and address terrorist threats, we need to remember the phrase on the Great Seal of the United States: “E Pluribus Unum”—out of many, one. This means refugees from Syria and Iraq who are fleeing terrible conditions and persecution too. As we move forward, let us unite to use the tools at our disposal - diplomatic, military, intelligence, and development - to defeat extremism and the terrorism it breeds.
11.17.2015	There is an epidemic of homelessness in our community. This crisis is having a terrible impact on our region and combatting it is critical to addressing inequities in our society. Earlier this month, Seattle Mayor Ed Murray and King County Executive Dow Constantine proclaimed a state of emergency to address homelessness. Any solution to the increasing plight of the homeless in our community must include a focus on the veterans who have risked their lives to protect our freedoms and keep us safe. “We have made strides toward ending veterans’ homelessness in Seattle, reducing veterans without permanent housing by two-thirds, but we have more work to do,” said Mayor Ed Murray. “Even one veteran sleeping on our streets is too many. These additional federal supports are welcome aid to those in need.” “I was extremely pleased to see that VASH has awarded project-based vouchers for our veterans community to ensure that they have access to housing,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Veterans and their families face a unique set of challenges and Congress must do everything possible to ensure that the men and women who serve our country receive the care and assistance that they earned.” In King County, these 11 vouchers will be used at the Multi-Service Center (MSC) Veterans Housing Project in Federal Way. MSC broke ground on the project in June 2015 and the building will be ready for occupancy by mid-summer 2016. Vital services will be offered onsite and occupants will receive an array of services linked to the VA Puget Sound Health Care System. Amenities at the Veterans Housing Project will include on-site parking, an exercise room, community rooms, computer labs, and security. “These vouchers provide important additional support for our efforts to end homelessness among our veterans in Washington State,” said Stephen Norman, Executive Director of King County Housing Authority. “We very much appreciate Congressman Smith’s unwavering commitment to truly bringing our troops home.” The award from the HUD – VASH will enable the Seattle Housing Authority (SHA) to subsidize an additional 10 studio apartments in the Lake City area as housing for homeless veterans in the. Homeless veterans in urgent need of housing will be identified in partnership with the Veterans Administration for placement in one of the 10 designated VASH project-based voucher apartments at the 75-unit McDermott Place complex, where they will pay no more than 30 percent of their income toward rent and utilities. In addition to housing, veterans will work with a Sound Mental Health case manager to receive coordinated mental health care and other support services, so they receive the treatment and skills they need for successful independent living. Those veterans who are able to work will also have access to economic self-sufficiency training. “This HUD – VASH award means that we can get 10 additional homeless men or women who have served our country off the streets of Seattle and into a home that is safe and warm,” said Andrew J. Lofton, Executive Director at the Seattle Housing Authority. “At McDermott Place they will receive respect and will be part of a caring community that offers a unique model of coordinated services to support them on a path to stability.” Congressman Smith recognizes that it is essential that we tackle the growing problem of housing insecurity and homelessness in our region. Housing and community development are key to citizens' quality of life and Congressman Smith supports empowerment zones and other incentive-based programs to encourage investment and development in communities in need. Congressman Smith applauds Senator Patty Murray’s Homeless Veterans Services Protection Act, federal legislation that would ensure access to critical services for homeless former service members. Many who have served in combat zones are impacted by post-traumatic stress – sometimes leading to them being discharged from the military without receiving the critical mental health and rehabilitative care that they so badly need. This bill would prevent the enactment of a Veterans Administration policy that could block homeless veterans on the street from accessing critical resources. Senator Murray’s legislation would also set VA policy that allows essential outreach programs to help the men and women who have sacrificed for our nation. Congress must continue to develop policies that reduce homelessness and create a better future for our veterans and for all Americans.
11.13.2015	“My thoughts are with the people of France after tonight's brutal terrorist attacks. While the extent of the attacks is still unknown, these horrific acts of terror highlight the continued challenge we face in the fight against terrorist networks. We must stand strong as an international community and remain steadfast in our belief that freedom and justice will prevail.”
11.11.2015	“On Veterans Day, we honor the brave and heroic service of all of our veterans. The men and women of our Armed Services risk their lives around the world every day to protect our freedoms and keep us safe. In return, it is critical that we ensure that they and their loved ones are cared for when they return home. I am honored to represent thousands of veterans who live in the 9th District in Washington state. Congress should do everything possible to ensure that the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines who serve our country come home to good, family-wage job opportunities and receive the care and assistance that they earned. I look forward to working with both the veterans in our community and my colleagues in the House of Representatives to improve the lives of those who have served.”
11.6.2015	“The American criminal justice system is fundamentally broken. “As a nation, we incarcerate more of our own citizens than any other country in the world – often times for non-violent drug offenses. Past reforms meant to keep our communities safer have resulted in disproportionately high incarceration rates among people of color, splitting families apart and helping to perpetuate cycles of poverty. Despite the creation of innovative tools at the local level in King County to institute diversionary “safety valve” mental health, drug rehabilitation, and veterans treatment courts, these resources do not currently exist at the federal level. Communities of color still face disproportionate mandatory minimum sentences, with charges often stacking on top of one another. The vast majority of inmates leaving prison face long-term unemployment, with employers often unwilling to consider them due to their records. Make no mistake, I believe that the justice system must work to protect the innocent, and hold those committing crimes accountable – but a central goal of our corrections system must also be rehabilitation and reintegration. As a society, we must do more. “As a former prosecutor, I have had a unique exposure to the intricacies of our judicial system. The men and women who work in law enforcement, as prosecutors, public defenders, judges, and corrections officers shoulder the immense duty of keeping our communities safe. These individuals must balance this responsibility while at the same time assuring that the system remains fair and balanced, and that individuals are treated and judged equally under the law. I believe the time has come to make important adjustments to the way we handle criminal justice in our country. “I applaud the President’s recent statements on the need for criminal justice reform, including his Executive Action to “ban the box” on initial paperwork for federal employment applications, which mirrors legislation that I became a cosponsor of earlier this year. Banning the box is a good start, however, there is no singular solution—we must make across-the-board changes if we are to truly reform our broken justice system and begin to address the unintended negative consequences of the 1994 Crime Bill. This bill has been criticized for its enactment of mandatory minimum sentences and other reforms that have disproportionately harmed disadvantaged communities. “To address our broken system, I have laid out a “roadmap” of criminal justice reform initiatives to make improvements throughout the judicial system. Congress should pass the SAFE Justice Act, a comprehensive bill that I cosponsored which utilizes evidence-based, state-tested reforms across the spectrum of criminal justice – from sentencing reform and safety valve programs, to changes in post-release supervision. I support establishing federal grant programs for Body Worn Cameras (BWCs) because we must work with and support our men and women in law enforcement, promoting accountability and transparency. I also strongly support funding for legal help to low income individuals, as well as legislation that implements evidence-based changes in our prisons and supports the reentry of those who have completed their sentences back into society. Leveling the playing field on federal job applications by “banning the box” is a crucial step, but we must go further. “As we work towards common-sense reforms to our criminal justice system, I greatly value the continuing information, opinions and experiences shared with me by my constituents about these critical topics. We must chart a new course if we are to build a stronger tomorrow.” “Congressman Smith will be an invaluable partner in building support across party lines to pass comprehensive criminal justice reform,” stated Congressman Bobby Scott, the lead Democratic cosponsor of the SAFE Justice Act. “His dedication to educating our colleagues about evidence-based practices and addressing the underlying causes of recidivism have been a great help as we continue to push for meaningful reform in Congress.”
11.5.2015	“Today, House Democrats and Republicans agreed on a revised National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016. This bill provides the Department of Defense with a stable and predictable budget with which to plan for the next two years. This bill reflects what Congress can do when it takes a bipartisan approach to the issues of the day. The robust discussion and participation from both Democrats and Republicans produced legislation that supports our troops, advances acquisition reform, and protects our national security. While the bill is much better than where we started, it still contains a number of problematic provisions. The bill does not address the need to reform how Overseas Contingency Operation funds are used and does not close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. The $5 billion cut from the President’s budget will create difficulties but was necessary under the terms of the Congressional Budget Agreement passed by the House last week. Make no mistake: the issue of sequestration and budget caps has impacted our national security. Other departments charged with protecting the nation, such as the Departments of State, Homeland Security, Justice, Treasury, and others, deserve budgets, certainty, and the opportunity to plan. Until we directly address these issues, our security will be at risk and key national priorities will continue to suffer. The past five years have made it very difficult for the Pentagon—and many others—to plan in a manner that best advances our national security interests. I support this bill. The National Defense Authorization Act has never been perfect, and it will never be perfect. We must empower those charged with protecting our nation’s security by giving them the means to plan. Moving forward, the House, Senate and President must continue to work together to eliminate sequestration altogether and implement a long-term spending plan that provides certainty to our economy, the Department of Defense, and the entire federal government.”
11.3.2015	“Today, I am honored to announce that I have joined the Democratic Whip’s Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality and Opportunity, chaired by Congresswoman Barbara Lee. This Task Force examines inequities in our society and looks at policy proposals to expand opportunity in areas including higher education, job training and employment, and stable housing. I look forward to engaging with my colleagues on the Whip’s Task Force to work to remove barriers that stand in the way of hard-working Americans reaching the middle class. Over the past few decades we have institutionalized barriers that too often keep people in poverty and limit economic prosperity. This cannot stand and we must do better. Americans today are confronted with a system where upward mobility has become increasingly out of reach. As the son of a ramp serviceman at the SeaTac airport, I often wonder how my family would fare under the same circumstances today. My father made upwards of $15 an hour with benefits for United Airlines in the 1980s. In today’s economy, similar jobs in our region often only earn $9.47, an amount that simply isn’t enough to provide for a family in King County. I am committed to increasing the jobs here at home and ensuring that we have a strong, well-trained workforce. Throughout my time in Congress, I have been working to do just that. Not only have I supported robust investments in education and workforce training and development, but I have also supported programs to assist American manufacturers access new markets. Additionally, I have pushed to increase the minimum wage to ensure our workers are compensated fairly for their work and can be part of our country’s middle class. In the coming months, the Task Force will continue to consult with key stakeholders and work closely with the Administration to develop support for a national strategy to eradicate poverty. We will evaluate the impact of anti-poverty programs, as well as the long-term economic outcomes of the Americans who receive assistance; and remove barriers and obstacles that prevent low-income Americans from joining the middle class. I am looking forward to working with the Task Force to develop policies that reduce poverty and create a better future for all Americans.” “I am thrilled to have Congressman Adam Smith join the Whip’s Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality and Opportunity,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. “In Congress, Rep. Smith is a tireless champion for working families and good paying jobs. His work to advance American manufacturing in the Puget Sound region and across the country has helped lift families into the middle class. I look forward to working with Rep. Smith to build pathways out of poverty by raising the minimum wage, creating good paying jobs, and strengthening our safety net for vulnerable families.” “I’m pleased to welcome Rep. Smith to our Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity,” said Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer. “From pushing for an increase in the minimum wage to supporting investments in workforce development and training, Rep. Smith has been a tireless advocate for working men and women. I thank him for his dedication to lifting more of our people out of poverty and into the middle class, and I look forward to working with him to continue to advance our agenda of job creation and economic opportunity for all Americans.”
10.28.2015	“Republicans have finally engaged in constructive conversations that have produced a two year bipartisan budget deal. This agreement, reached by House and Senate leaders, would increase funding equally for defense and non-defense investments and will help ensure that our economy continues to grow while providing opportunities for middle-class Americans. Unfortunately, this deal does not eliminate cuts mandated by sequestration and does not fix our core budget problems in the long-term. During the disastrous debt ceiling debate in 2011, Congress passed the Budget Control Act, which I opposed. While that legislation temporarily addressed the debt limit, it also stipulated that if Congress did not find $1.2 trillion in savings, sequestration would take effect. Sequester cuts were designed to be so damaging to our national defense, the economy, and other important federal programs, that Congress would be forced to act. Since then, Congress has only been able to make progress with limited-term budget agreements. Ideally, a budget must support our working families, invest in innovation and infrastructure, and advance comprehensive immigration reform. A responsible budget must create jobs and strengthen the middle class. This budget agreement is not perfect and much of it needs careful review, but it is a move in the right direction. This agreement is preferable to governing from budget crisis to budget crisis and will allow for the American people to plan for the future. This budget deal is paid for in a balanced way by ensuring that Wall Street pays the taxes they owe and cuts billions in wasteful spending. Furthermore, this agreement protects critical priorities, keeping intact programs that working families depend on and protecting Social Security and Medicare beneficiaries from harmful cuts. The deal will avoid cuts to the Social Security Disability Insurance program that are projected to take place at the end of next year and also avoids an increase in Medicare Part B premiums. I have long called for Congress to permanently address the sequester. While the bipartisan budget agreement does not eliminate the sequester, this deal is a necessary compromise. The agreement will more reasonably fund our national and economic security through 2017, while ensuring the full faith and credit of the United States is not put at risk. Moving forward, Congress must eliminate sequestration altogether and implement a long-term spending plan that provides certainty to our economy, the Department of Defense, and the entire federal government.”
10.27.2015	“The reasons to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank’s charter grow each day. In 2014, the Ex-Im Bank supported 2,400 jobs and $28,586,427 in exports to minority and women owned businesses in the 9th Congressional District of Washington state. Throughout my time in Congress, I have been a strong supporter of the Ex-Im Bank. I am a cosponsor of the bill introduced by Congresswoman Waters, the Promoting U.S. Jobs through Exports Act of 2015, which would extend the bank’s authorization through 2022 and would ensure that American businesses can continue to compete globally. The bill also increases Ex-Im Bank’s financing limit to $160 billion and expands opportunities for small-and medium-sized businesses. On October 9, 2015, I joined a bipartisan majority of Representatives in the House to sign a discharge petition to bring to the Floor a measure that would reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank. The most recent extension expired on June 30, 2015. Without the necessary re-authorization, many of Washington’s exporters will be unable to match increasing international competition from foreign companies that receive robust support from their own export credit agencies. Today, I was proud to join my colleagues in the House in supporting the passage of H.R. 597 that reauthorizes the Ex-Im Bank. Extending support to the Ex-Im Bank is critical to maintaining and creating jobs in Washington state and around the country.”
10.6.2015	“Last week, despite multiple hunger strikes, public protests over conditions, and lack of transparency in contract negotiations, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) signed a new contract with the GEO Group to operate the Northwest Detention Center (NWDC) for the next nine years and six months.” “This contract is a symbol of systemic problems in our immigration detention system that we must fix. We need to get private, for profit companies out of the business of running immigration detention facilities and get those with pending immigration cases who pose no risk to society out on community-based Alternatives to Detention (ATDs). We also must ensure that there are clearly established, transparent and humane standards within immigration detention facilities.” “One of the keys to achieving these goals is repealing the detention bed mandate. Due in large part to this misguided policy which directs ICE to have at least 34,000 detention beds for immigrants at any given time, private, for-profit prison companies run detention facilities. Under this policy, ICE is incentivized to detain largely nonviolent people whose immigration cases should be monitored through community-based ATDs. Last week, I offered an amendment to remove the detention bed quota from the short-term Continuing Resolution for Fiscal Year 2016. The amendment was rejected by the House Rules Committee, but I will continue to work with my colleagues to end the detention bed mandate.” “We also need to make sure that local contracts, like the one just signed by ICE and GEO Group for the NWDC, have no minimum bed guarantees within them. Minimum bed guarantees are essentially detention bed mandates in individual contracts. I am a cosponsor of federal legislation that prohibits ICE from negotiating contracts that contain a minimum bed quota.” “For those we must detain, we should have clearly established baseline standards for immigration detention facilities. My bill, the Accountability in Immigration Detention Act, outlines such standards as well as stresses the need for increased use of ATDs and elimination of the detention bed mandate.” “In March, I wrote a letter to ICE Director Saldaña to relay the need for these changes with respect to the then-pending NWDC contract negotiation. I am very concerned that this contract will continue the status quo by allowing NWDC to be managed by the same private prison company that has run it for years. Until Congress takes action to address these issues, we are left with a flawed detention policy that benefits private corporations at high cost to taxpayers, detainees and families of those affected.”
10.2.2015	Congressman Adam Smith joined Representatives Deutch, Foster, Watson Coleman, Castro and Polis in offering an amendment to remove the detention bed quota from the short-term Continuing Resolution for Fiscal Year 2016. “The detention bed mandate, first passed by Congress in 2009 and included in annual appropriations legislation, requires U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to fill 34,000 detention beds for immigrants at any given time. Rather than targeting enforcement toward individuals who pose legitimate risks to our community, this indiscriminate quota incentivizes the inhumane and arbitrary detention of thousands for whom we have no justifiable reason to detain in these facilities.” “Due in large part to the misguided detention bed mandate, large, for-profit prison corporations that have the resources to build and maintain detention centers are left in charge of operating these facilities at a high cost to taxpayers, detainees and families of those affected,” said Congressman Smith, who has introduced the Accountability in Immigration Detention Act to address our broken immigration policy. On September 30, 2015, the amendment was rejected by the House Rules Committee. Congressman Smith will continue to work with his colleagues to rectify this issue at the next available opportunity. “Until Congress acts, we are left with a detention policy that benefits private, for-profit corporations at the expense of immigrant rights and the American taxpayer.” ###
9.11.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in remembrance of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: “Our country was forever changed 14 years ago when terrorists attacked innocent Americans on September 11th, 2001. The anniversary of the horrific attacks provides us with an opportunity to morn those who we lost and to reaffirm our resolve to stay on the offensive against those who wish to harm Americans. “Today, my thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the 2,977 Americans we lost that day. We also must remember the heroic efforts of our police, firefighters, and medical teams that responded to this attack and risked their lives to save others. We will never forget September 11th and how in the face of evil our country united, grew stronger, and protected freedom and liberty. As the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will remain focused on ensuring an attack like this never happens again.”
9.1.2015	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in support of the Administration’s deal on Iran’s nuclear program: The Administration, our closest allies, and the other members of the U.N. Security council worked tirelessly for two years to successfully negotiate a historic deal that will prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon for at least the next 15 years. Over the course of the last two months, I have reviewed the final agreement thoroughly and have had extensive conversations with the Administration, nonproliferation experts, our European allies, and those who are concerned with aspects of the deal. After careful and thoughtful consideration, I have decided to support this agreement because I believe it ends the otherwise unmonitored and unrestricted continuation of the Iranian nuclear program and it halts the surely destructive effects of a nuclear Iran in the Middle East. This deal gives the world unprecedented access to Iran’s nuclear sites and intrusive monitoring of its uranium supply and centrifuge production chains to ensure its enrichment activities are extremely limited. This is access that we would not have without a deal. These verification measures are key to making sure that Iran sticks to its part of the bargain to not enrich uranium above 3.67% and to keep no more than 300 kilograms of low-enriched uranium for the next 15 years. These levels are far below those necessary to build a nuclear weapon. This deal substantially lengthens the time Iran would need to develop a nuclear weapon should it decide to violate the agreement. This agreement took high-level diplomatic engagement and represents a broad international agreement. Congress' rejection of this deal would hurt the U.S.' credibility and likely fracture the international cooperation that was essential in enforcing a sanctions regime on Iran. This would make potential negotiations with Iran in the future incredibly difficult, and increase the likelihood that Iran would be able to develop a nuclear weapon without constraints. It is hard to see how turning this deal down strengthens our position or furthers our national security interests in the region. Iran's support to terrorist groups in the region is destabilizing and a threat to the U.S. and our allies. I too share concerns over lifting the arms embargo on Iran in 5 years should it comply with all of its obligations in the nuclear agreement, and I do not believe that Iran will suddenly become a force for good in the region. However, it is important to bear in mind that this does not affect U.S. or EU bans on weapons sales, and that the goal of these negotiations was to reach a deal that prevents Iran from becoming a nuclear power. Iran is a malign actor, but an Iran with a nuclear deterrent would be free to pursue its bad actions without fear of military response. We cannot allow U.S. domestic politics to make such a future more likely. The 60-day period for Congress to review the deal is almost over. During the remaining time, I look forward to working with my colleagues and the Administration to ensure that we have the correct mechanisms in place to monitor Iran’s compliance with the deal and to respond should Iran forfeit its compliance with this agreement. As the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will also work with the Administration and my colleagues to address Iran’s other malign activities and enhance the security of our Israeli and Arab partners in the region. I remain concerned about Iran’s destabilizing actions in the region and threats to the security of our allies and our servicemen and women. But I firmly believe that those threats would be made much worse if Iran possessed nuclear weapons. At this time, the deal negotiated between Iran and the international community is the best way to prevent Iran from getting those weapons.
8.21.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement on the two year anniversary of Nestora Salgado’s arrest: “For two years, Nestora has been denied due process and justice by the Mexican government. It is entirely unacceptable that she remains imprisoned in conditions that threaten her life. A Mexican federal court and many civil society and human rights groups including experts from the United Nations have all called for long overdue action. I continue to urge the United States government and the Mexican government to take immediate action to secure Nestora’s release. I will keep doing all I can to fight for her.” Ms. Salgado is a resident of Renton, WA who was arrested for her leadership in community police group in her hometown of Olinalá in the state of Guerrero, which has a long tradition of legally-recognized community self-defense groups. As her Member of Congress, Congressman Smith has worked with Nestora’s family and her legal representation at Seattle University to help secure her release. He has held press conferences and sent a letter with Senator Patty Murray to the State Department to bring attention to the case and ensure Nestora can safely return to her family.
8.6.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement recognizing the 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act: “Having free and fair elections is essential for our democracy, and for 50 years now, the Voting Rights Act has played a critical role in protecting individuals’ right to vote regardless of race, ethnic background, or level of income. In Congress, we must do all we can to build on the Voting Rights Act and make it easier for folks to vote rather than make it harder with Voter ID laws and other discriminatory practices. That is why I am a cosponsor of H.R. 3364, introduced by Rep. Rick Larsen, which would allow voters to sign a written statement to affirm their identity if they do not have an ID. I also support the Voter Empowerment Act of 2015 introduced by Rep. John Lewis which would require states to have online voter registration and make grants available to increase voter registration. I understand the importance of promoting balance, openness, and fairness in elections and I will fight for policies that protect and improve upon the Voting Rights Act.”
8.6.2015	Congressman Adam Smith reintroduced the Rural Economic Vitalization Act (REVA), a bill that would address the wasteful, environmentally damaging, and economically inefficient federal grazing policy on our public lands. This legislation would change federal law to allow ranchers with grazing permits to voluntarily relinquish their permits to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the U.S. Forest Service in exchange for private market compensation. It would further allow the BLM and U.S. Forest Service to permanently retire the grazing permit. “Our current federal grazing policy is inefficient, wasteful, and must be addressed,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “By allowing ranchers with grazing permits to voluntarily relinquish their permits, this legislation is a win for all involved as it saves the American taxpayer money, gives public lands the chance to rebuild their natural habitats, and provides ranchers with more financial opportunities. This bill opens the door for private solutions to a long-standing problem and eliminates wasteful spending while saving taxpayer dollars.” Representative Raul Grijalva joined Congressman Smith in introducing the legislation, saying “grazing is an important use of our public lands, but it's a very impactful use. Excessive grazing impacts wildlife habitat, soil composition, local hydrology, and even heightens the impacts of climate change. Retiring some permits will help save taxpayer money and benefit federal conservation efforts. Right now, when we are looking for ways to save taxpayer money, REVA is a win-win. Ranchers that want to retire their permits should have that opportunity.” Current law does not allow for the retirement of grazing permits. This has impacts on wildlife, watersheds, and the surrounding ecosystem, which continue to be harmed by domestic livestock grazing. In addition to the environmental issues, the federal grazing program is heavily subsidized and costs American taxpayers over $117 million a year. In Fiscal Year 2014, the BLM and U.S. Forest Service spent $134 million on grazing management, but only reported collecting $17 million in grazing fees. Click here for a fact sheet on REVA.
8.3.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after the President and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced the Clean Power Plan: “Pollution from power plants is the single largest source of carbon pollution in the United States and I applaud the EPA and the Administration for their efforts to address it. The finalization of the Clean Power Plan is a significant step towards combating climate change and conserving our natural resources for future generations. “Climate change and air pollution disproportionately affect low income families, communities of color, and vulnerable populations like children and the elderly. We need to be doing more to protect our community. This final rule sends a strong message that the United States is committed to addressing this issue. As Congress holds hearings and debates on clean energy and climate legislation, I will focus on investing in clean energy and energy efficiency technologies, while reducing our dependence on fossil fuels and combating climate change to ensure the well-being of future generations.”
7.29.2015	In the Social Security Commission’s annual report released last week, the Commission warned of major shortfalls in Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) that will result in a 19 percent reduction in benefits for 11 million disabled Americans starting in 2016 if Congress doesn’t act. Today, Congressman Smith cosponsored the One Social Security Act to prevent these cuts and to help ensure individuals get the benefits they deserve. “It is critical that we preserve the guarantee associated with Social Security and continue the system in a sustainable way. This legislation would prevent 11 million disabled Americans from facing harmful cuts to their Social Security benefits without adding a penny to the deficit and without changing the overall financial standing of the program. By simply unifying the two existing Social Security funds, the One Social Security Act will prevent SSDI from running out, and ensure disabled workers get the benefits they have earned,” Adam explained. A 1956 law required the government to distribute Social Security in two separate funds: one triggered by retirement or death (Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance–or OASDI) and the other by a severe injury or illness (SSDI). This separation makes it harder for the much smaller amount of SSDI beneficiaries to access OASDI funds, despite disabled workers having fully contributed to Social Security as a whole. As a result, Congress has periodically been forced to authorize the transfer of funds between OASDI and SSDI to ensure disabled beneficiaries get what they deserve. This legislation would merge the two funds to streamline Social Security payments and ensure that SSDI beneficiaries do not see their benefits fall in 2016.
7.24.2015	Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement after hearing about the death of Donnie Chin: “I am deeply saddened to hear about the death of Donnie Chin. As the director of the International District Emergency Center, Donnie helped provide critical support and emergency services to the International District and he will be greatly missed. My thoughts are with his family and friends at this difficult time.”
7.17.2015	On June 25, 2015, Congressman Dave Reichert and Congressman Adam Smith reintroduced legislation that would establish the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area. This designation would help to preserve our region's scenic natural lands and wildlife habitat, while also recognizing its economic benefit through the promotion of outdoor recreation, tourism, and agriculture. Just days after the reintroduction of the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Act, the legislation received broad support from several organizations, community groups, and local elected officials. The diverse coalition of organizations and community members supporting this effort speaks to the value our community places on protecting our environment for generations to come. Below are statements of support for the Act, as well as an excerpt from Crosscut’s recent feature on the legislation and efforts to support it. Les Welsh, Regional Executive Director, Pacific Regional Center, National Wildlife Federation “We applaud Congressman Smith’s efforts to designate the Mountains to Sound Greenway and add important public recognition to a space that is enormously valuable to both people and wildlife in the backyard of the Washington’s largest metropolitan area.” Councilmember Larry Gossett, King County “The creation of the Greenway has been a major effort that King County has taken the lead on over the past 20 years, investing well over $100 million in land acquisition and recreational development.” Josh Brown, Executive Director, Puget Sound Regional Council “The Mountains to Sound Greenway is an important component of VISION 2040, the region’s integrated strategy to ensure the well-being of people and communities, economic vitality, and a healthy environment as we grow.” Gene Duvernoy, Executive Director, Forterra “Such a designation will further empower a consensus-based approach for the continued care and improvement of the Greenway—a model proven successful by the remarkable achievements of the Greenway coalition over the last 20 years. It is yet another means of achieving the goals of the Cascade Agenda and ensuring a livable place for us all.” Terri Butler, Executive Director, Sustainable Seattle “We at Sustainable Seattle have found that our members grew to appreciate the earth and the importance of keeping it healthy through their own personal positive experiences in the outdoors, either as children or later in life” Patrick Bannon, President, Bellevue Downtown Association “Bellevue residents and businesses benefit from having world-class recreation at our doorstep. The Greenway is an attraction for top employers and talent, helping to keep our local and regional economy strong.” Bruce Bassett, Mayor, City of Mercer Island “As a city within the Mountains to Sound Greenway, Mercer Island shares the vision of a connected landscape extending from the shores of Puget Sound, across the Cascade crest and into the central portion of Washington State, providing scenic beauty, outstanding recreation and a high quality of life for this region.” Elizabeth Stewart, Executive Director, Renton Historical Society “This area exemplifies the rich and storied history of our region, and we support recognizing the uniqueness of this region by designating the Greenway with a fitting national label.” Janet Ray, Assistant Vice President, AAA Washington, Bellevue National Heritage Area designation will create a framework that will provide a higher profile and enhanced reputation for this corridor and allow it to become even more a destination for heritage and recreational travelers, a goal of our company since its inception.”
7.14.2015	On Monday, the Boy Scouts of America announced that their executive committee approved a resolution that would end the organization’s ban on gay leaders. This comes well over a year after Troop 98 of Seattle’s Rainier Beach United Methodist Church had their charter revoked when they refused to remove openly gay scoutmaster Geoffrey McGrath. Congressman Smith released the following statement: “No one should be discriminated against because of their sexual orientation, and I am pleased to see the Boy Scouts of America take this initial step. With this policy change, I hope that Geoffrey McGrath and Troop 98 will be reinstated, as well as any other openly gay scoutmasters who have been unjustly removed because of their sexual orientation.” In April 2014, Congressman Smith wrote a letter to the President of Boy Scouts of America expressing deep concern that Troop 98 had their charter revoked.
7.14.2015	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following comments after the Administration announced it has reached a deal on Iran’s nuclear program: I applaud the Administration for all of its hard work. From the harsh sanctions that brought Iran to the table, to the strenuous and lengthy negotiations that have brought us to this point, the Administration has worked tirelessly to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. I look forward to thoroughly reviewing the agreement announced today. We cannot let our desire for a deal allow us to accept a bad deal. And we cannot allow politics to stand in the way of a good deal. In the coming days, Congress will have the opportunity to scrutinize the deal presented today. It is my hope that Congress takes advantage of this time to honestly review the deal and determine whether it is in the best interest of the United States to move forward. This potential agreement comes on the heels of a long history of mistrust and cheating by Iran. Consolation with our allies and a strong inspections and verification regime will be vital to the success of this agreement. Again, I applaud the Obama Administration for the progress it has made thus far and look forward to reviewing this agreement in far greater detail.
7.13.2015	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in response to press reports that the Department of Defense will establish a working group on transgender service: I applaud Secretary Carter’s decision to establish a working group to study the policy and readiness implications of allowing transgender persons to serve openly. The brave men and women who serve in our military should not be excluded from the rights and freedoms that they risk their lives to protect. It's that simple. Incorporating the presumption that transgender individuals can serve openly, without adverse impact on the military effectiveness and readiness, is a step in the right direction. But it is long past time that we definitively and affirmatively make it clear that gender identity should have no bearing on an individual's ability to serve. I look forward to the day when an individual can no longer be cast out of the military simply because of their gender identity.
7.6.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement on the President’s proposal to increase the overtime threshold from $23,660 to $50,440: “I applaud the President for taking action to extend overtime pay protections. This proposal will allow 5 million American workers to take home the money they have earned. The overtime threshold has not been raised in decades, and in the meantime income inequality has increased and average workers have been feeling squeezed. Now, the bottom 90 percent of Americans own just 23 percent of total U.S. wealth. “We must be doing more to invest in the worker to build a strong middle class. I will continue to work and advocate for policies that respect workers and the dignity of work. This change by President Obama is a step in the right direction.”
7.1.2015	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement after the extension of Iran nuclear negotiations: "Preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon is a vitally important national security priority in the Middle East and negotiating a good deal remains our best avenue to do so. As negotiations have been extended, it is critical that we build on an acceptable framework that has strong inspection and verification components. This is our opportunity to block all of Iran's paths to a nuclear weapon while avoiding military action. As such, we must let the process play out. I will continue to closely monitor negotiations and look forward to reviewing a final deal when it is reached."
6.26.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruling on Obergefell v. Hodges: “Today’s decision by the Supreme Court is a victory for justice and equality. Ensuring marriage equality for all Americans regardless of who they love strengthens families, communities, and our nation as a whole. I stand with the LGBT community and the rest of our country in celebrating this monumental step towards equality. “Today, we celebrate this victory, but we must remain committed to fighting for LGBT equality. Despite the ruling today, significant work remains to ensure equal rights to the LGBT community. LGBT people are still denied work, bulled in our schools, and homelessness and poverty rates are still unacceptably high among LGBT people. I will continue to advocate and fight for policies that ensure equality and justice for the LGBT community.”
6.25.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement regarding the Department of Homeland Security’s revised plan to limit family detention: “The Department of Homeland Security’s revised plan for family detention again fails to address the real issue. We must end family detention, not mend it. Jailing children and mothers has devastating impacts on these families and in order to truly fix this problem we must implement more sensible, humane, and cost-effective alternatives to detention. Our government must get out of the business of detaining families.”
6.25.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement regarding the King v. Burwell Supreme Court Decision: “The decision issued by the Supreme Court of the United States today ensures that American workers and middle class families, regardless of what state they live in, will be able to access affordable and quality healthcare. Federal tax credits made available through the Affordable Care Act save lives by continuing to make healthcare affordable for millions of Americans, that would otherwise be out of the marketplace. This decision ensures that those tax credits remain available. “The Affordable Care Act has now been upheld by the Supreme Court twice. In that time, millions of Americans who couldn’t afford healthcare before, are now insured. Instead of continuing to fight to repeal a law that has benefitted millions, I hope both Republicans and Democrats can come together to look for ways to improve upon the law, rather than continuing to fight to dismantle it.”
6.25.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in support of Trade Adjustment Assistance: “I voted in support of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) today because it allows workers in my district and across the country to access critical support to compete in our global economy. Those who are impacted from increased competition deserve to be retrained so they can reenter the job market. TAA will expire on September 30 and unless it is reauthorized, our workers will no longer have access to this assistance. “Although I supported the bill, this is not the best reauthorization legislation the House could consider. Unlike the TAA bill that I introduced with Ranking Member Levin earlier this year, today’s bill has several shortcomings, including one of critical concern. This legislation cuts funding for worker training from $575 million to $450 million at a time when we are expanding markets and transforming our economy. Should this funding not be sufficient, I hope the Administration is prepared to work with Congress to provide additional resources with the same vigor they’ve invested in passing TPA. “Although I am glad to see that we are no longer paying for this program by cutting funds from Medicare, I remain disappointed that this bill does not qualify public sector workers for Trade Adjustment Assistance. They are an important part of our workforce and should be able to qualify for access to the same services. “Our nation's economy and success depend on our workers. Over the last decade, I have been a strong supporter of Trade Adjustment Assistance and have led the effort to protect, extend, and enhance the program. Despite this bill being imperfect, I believe in this program and will continue this fight for good jobs, to ensure American workers can provide for their families, and that our country remains competitive.”
6.15.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in support of Trade Adjustment Assistance: “The global economy, technological advancements, and increasing competition will continue to pressure workers and it is essential and only fair that we support and retrain those who lose their jobs as a result. With the Medicare cuts off the table, I voted in support of the House Trade Adjustment Assistance bill because it reestablishes critical training and support to these workers that have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. Our nation's economy and success depend on our workers, and the strategy of opposing TAA to stop Trade Promotion Authority risks killing this critical program. “This version of TAA improves the current program because it reestablishes coverage for service sector workers and those who have lost their jobs to increased competition with countries like China. Over the last decade, I have been a strong supporter of the Trade Adjustment Assistance and have been a leader to protect, extend, and enhance the program. I will continue to fight for American workers.”
6.11.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement opposing Trade Promotion Authority: “Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) and the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP), as they are currently being discussed, do not do enough to protect workers and the environment at home and abroad. “The biggest problem facing our economy is a vanishing middle class. Corporations are incentivized to value customers, shareholders, and executives over their workers resulting in less take home pay and benefits. This is evidenced by the bottom 90 percent of Americans owning just 23 percent of total U.S. wealth. TPA and TPP are far from the only or even largest contributors, but they provide the wrong incentives allowing corporations to grow and benefit from undervaluing workers both here and abroad. “This trade framework is skewed to benefit corporations; an example of this is the investor-state dispute settlement. This mechanism gives corporations the private right to sue countries directly for what they may deem to be discriminatory, unfair, or arbitrary treatment by the host government. Meanwhile, workers do not have the same right to action should a country violate its worker or environmental obligations under the agreement. For example, if a corporation perceives that it is negatively impacted by a country’s enactment of a safety or environmental protection law it has the right to sue that country. However, violations brought by labor or environmental groups must go through a long and cumbersome process through the U.S. Government that can take several years. “I believe in the benefits of trade and I have supported trade promotion authority and many trade deals in the past. But I voted against the Central American Free Trade Agreement precisely because it lacked protections for labor and the environment. In 2007, the May 10th Agreement was reached and it provided enforceable protections for workers and the environment. However, the promises of this agreement have not yet been fully realized and much more work is left to be done. Although on paper enforcement standards have improved, our government has not demonstrated to American and international workers its commitment to fully doing the job. “I often hear an argument in support of TPA and TPP that if we don’t set the rules in Asia and the Pacific, China will do so. Although clearly better than China’s, our record is not stellar either. The 2013 Rana Plaza collapse in Bangladesh killed over 1,100 garment workers and injured 2,000 more due to a failure to ensure safe working conditions for workers. There were several American companies whose products were made at that factory by subcontractors with terrible labor and safety practices. Corporations should not skirt their responsibilities by using willful ignorance or global supply chains as an excuse to absolve them of their responsibility to ensure the health and safety of workers. “Currency manipulation is another problem that remains unaddressed. Until we find an effective way to ensure that other countries cannot devalue their currency to boost their exports, U.S. gains from trade will be limited. Finding a solution to currency manipulation matters to American workers and businesses. This agreement does not address this issue in a meaningful way. “These concerns aside, I would be more inclined to support a trade deal if I believed that American and global corporate culture was committed to paying workers fairly and ensuring their safety in the workplace. However, skyrocketing executive pay and huge stock buybacks at the expense of worker compensation convince me that there is an insufficient commitment to preserving the middle class. Too many businesses value executives, shareholders, and customers over workers, who today are not being adequately compensated for the work they do. “I grew up in the SeaTac area where my father worked as a ramp serviceman for United Airlines and my mother stayed at home to raise the family. As a blue collar worker in the 1980s, my father was a member of the union and was paid $16 an hour with benefits. His job allowed him to provide for my family and to support my educational and professional goals. Unfortunately, his job today would pay only $9.73, making it impossible for a family to enjoy the financial security and upward mobility mine did. “Trade agreements should create sound incentives and reinforce business cultures that value workers, as they have the ability to help spread these practices worldwide. We must do more to support the companies in the 9th District and around the country that are doing so already. Unfortunately, Wall Street and trade deals too often reward these companies’ competitors that improve their bottom line by shortchanging their employees--many of whom are not being adequately compensated for their work. “In voting against TPA, it is my hope the Administration will take a step back and better engage on strengthening compliance with worker and environmental protections through trade agreements. When I supported trade agreements in the past, I believed the commitment to strong enforcement would result in tangible improvements. I want to be able to support future trade agreements, but until our record improves, these deals will fail to deliver on their promise of shared economic prosperity for American businesses and workers.”
6.4.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement opposing the Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations bill: “Investments in our nation’s transportation network and infrastructure provide for thousands of jobs, the safety of our citizens, and the efficient movement of goods, all of which is critical for our economic growth. Despite this, Congress has been unable to implement forward-thinking policies and spending on transportation programs. The FY2016 T-HUD Appropriations bill is simply another failed attempt to responsibly invest in our infrastructure. It ignores the fact that our roads, bridges and railways are crumbling, and instead locks in the indiscriminate cuts of sequestration, leading to woefully underfunded infrastructure programs like TIGER Grants and Amtrak. Congress should not stand for this. “Additionally, the FY2016 T-HUD Appropriations bill falls short in funding for housing and urban development. The bill slashes funding for new Section 8 Rental Assistance vouchers and also does nothing to restore the 67,000 vouchers that were lost due to harmful sequestration cuts. As most of the country continues to struggle from the Great Recession, we need to ensure families have the support necessary to work their way back into the economy. This bill fails to provide that critical support. “Until Congress can come together and eliminate the harmful and mindless cuts of sequestration, funding for critical programs like transportation and housing will continue to be slashed. I deeply understand the importance of improving infrastructure in the US and investing in housing and urban development programs, and despite the challenges, I will continue to do all I can to advocate for responsible investments in these priorities.”
6.2.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement recognizing the life of Bob Dickerson: “I was deeply saddened to learn that Bob Dickerson passed away. Bob was eternally optimistic and inspired everyone that he met, including me. He recognized the good in humanity; and the generosity, selflessness, and passion that he exhibited every day uplifted everyone around him. He never missed the chance to put in a good word about others and recognize the work of his colleagues and friends. He spent his life fighting tirelessly for the poor and vulnerable at home and around the world. Bob will be tremendously missed, but the impact he had on the people who knew him will continue to live on. My thoughts and prayers are with Bob’s family and friends at this difficult time.”
5.15.2015	Congressman Smith released the following statement in response to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) announced action on family detention centers: “ICE’s announced action to improve oversight and conditions at family detention centers misses the point. It is wrong and irresponsible for our government to continue detaining children and their mothers. We must not ignore that jailing children can have devastating impacts on a child’s development and cause serious psychological harm to these families. We have less expensive and more humane alternatives to detention to monitor families while still adequately managing their cases. Our government must focus on utilizing these alternatives, and I will continue to advocate for policies that do so. We need to get out of the business of detaining children and their mothers.”
5.14.2015	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Adam Smith reintroduced the Accountability in Immigration Detention Act, legislation that would create enforceable standards and improve conditions at immigration detention centers while encouraging alternatives to detention and the repeal of the detention bed mandate. The Northwest Detention Center, a detention facility in Congressman Smith’s district, experienced a large hunger strike among its detainees in March 2014 to protest conditions and treatment within the facility. Over a year later, detainees at the facility report that they continue to experience unfair, unjust, and inhumane treatment. “Our immigration detention system is expensive, inhumane, and badly broken,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Our government spends millions of dollars detaining fathers, mothers, and children who have committed no crime in unacceptable conditions as they await immigration proceedings. This legislation would improve conditions by creating enforceable standards that are established and negotiated by a group of community stakeholders.” The stakeholders would not only include the Department of Homeland Security, but also representatives of State and local governments, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, nongovernmental organizations (NGO) with expertise working on behalf of aliens in detention facilities, NGOs with expertise advocating for asylum seeker, and more. The standards would address issues around solitary confinement, investigating grievances, treatment of detainees, access to legal representation, and ensuring quality food. “We applaud Representative Adam Smith for his leadership,” said Rich Stolz, Executive Director of OneAmerica. “Federal agencies continue to provide inadequate attention to the fundamental right to fair and humane treatment including limits on the use of solitary confinement, increased access to telephones, attorneys and translation services, and protection of detainees against retaliation for filing a complaint or grievance. Many immigrants have waited months (and sometimes years) in detention centers while awaiting legal proceedings.” In addition to improving standards and conditions, the legislation also takes steps to expand alternatives to detention. Alternatives offer a more fair, cost-effective and humane approach while still ensuring that more than 90 percent of individuals appear at immigration proceedings. Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service (LIRS) released a statement saying, “This Act would both expand the use of community-based alternatives to detention and create increased protections for migrants in detention. These alternatives result in high rates of compliance and appearance, improved integration outcomes, and improved health and welfare- all at a reduced cost to the government. Overall, the Accountability in Immigration Detention Act offers a strong model for how the United States can uphold its humanitarian obligations while ensuring compliance with immigration law.” This legislation also recognizes that an expansion in alternatives must come with the repeal of the detention bed quota. The Detention Watch Network expressed support saying they “welcome Representative Smith's leadership in addressing many of the injustices endemic to the US immigration detention system. From addressing the egregious immigration detention bed quota, to curbing some of the worst aspects of misguided mandatory detention laws, to improving access to legal representation for people who are detained, this bill is a clear step in the right direction and a welcome departure from the current system which treats immigrant lives as numbers to meet a quota and dollars to make a profit.” Maru Villalpando of Latino Advocacy added that "This bill is a model of true collaboration and partnership with those impacted by the detention and deportation machine that profits off their misery, and off the separation of families. While we continue our efforts on ending deportations and detentions, we will continue supporting legislative efforts such as this.” This legislation has been cosponsored by Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-2), Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA-1), Rep. Theodore Deuch (FL-1), Rep. Bill Foster (IL-11), Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-5), Rep. Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), and Rep. Jim McDermott (WA-7). It’s also received support from many civil society organizations such as OneAmerica, LIRS, Northwest Immigrant Rights Project, Detention Watch Network, and Latino Advocacy. For a section by section on the bill, click here.
5.14.2015	Washington, D.C.: Congressman Adam Smith and Senator Patty Murray released the following statement upon hearing that Nestora Salgado was on a hunger strike: “It is unacceptable for the Mexican government to continue to imprison Nestora Salgado in conditions that fail to protect her life and physical integrity. Nestora’s health continues to deteriorate and without immediate action by the Mexican government, Nestora’s life is truly at risk. “The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, United Nations human rights experts, a Mexican federal court, and many civil society groups in the United States and Mexico have all called for immediate action by the Mexican government to protect Nestora, which is long overdue. “We urge the United States government to take immediate action to secure Nestora’s release on humanitarian grounds. Nestora has been deprived from due process and justice by the Mexican government and we will continue to do all we can to ensure that she receives it.” Ms. Salgado is a resident of Renton, WA who was arrested for her leadership in community police group in her hometown of Olinalá in the state of Guerrero, which has a long tradition of legally-recognized community self-defense groups. As her Members of Congress, Congressman Smith and Senator Murray have been working with Nestora’s family and her legal representation at Seattle University to help secure her release. They have joined to send letters to the State Department to bring attention to the case and ensure Nestora can safely return to her family.
5.13.2015	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement announcing his opposition to the National Defense Authorization Act: Both Democrats and Republicans agree that the Budget Control Act caps are extremely damaging and as long as Congress fails to enact a solution, a variety of key national priorities will continue to suffer. I understand that finding a compromise to remove the caps has been elusive, but that does not justify the use of gimmicks to protect one part of the budget, and shortchange other portions that are vitally important to the future of our country. Even worse, this short-term work-around does not enable the Department of Defense to undertake long term planning or provide the certainty that they can count on such funding in the future. I have great respect for Chairman Thornberry, but I cannot vote for this bill under these circumstances. The National Defense Authorization Act has never been perfect. And it will never be perfect. What matters most is that, on balance, this bill represents a commitment to our national security, and to the individuals who we ask to stand watch and execute the missions necessary to ensure our security. In today’s dangerous and unpredictable world, we must ensure that our military has the resources and tools that it needs to meet the threats of today as well as tomorrow. However, that is just one piece of the puzzle. Maintaining our national security requires more than a strong military. If we do not have a strong economy, and build a solid foundation for future generations, then we cannot ensure our national security in the long term. If we stop investing in the American people, then we are undermining our national security and cutting short the promise of America. Unfortunately, the National Defense Authorization Act sends the message that we are only willing to fulfill half of that promise. The White House has also made it clear that they will veto this bill as well as other appropriations bills that reflect a similar approach. Congress is wasting time with this dead-end approach. In the coming months, it is my hope that the House, Senate and President can come together and strike a compromise to remove the budget caps and move forward with a responsible approaching to budgeting.
4.30.2015	Today, Congressman Smith became a cosponsor of the Raise the Wage Act introduced by Senator Patty Murray and Ed & Workforce Chairman Bobby Scott. This legislation would raise the minimum wage nationwide to $12.00 per hour by 2020. Congressman Smith released the following statement in support of the bill: “As our economy continues to recover from the Great Recession, we need policies that support investing in our workforce to ensure that everyone is sharing in the recovery. A large part of this is making sure that employees earn a living wage. This legislation would help do so by increasing the national minimum wage to $12 an hour by 2020. “Studies have shown that the fall in minimum wage over the last 30 years has led to an increase in inequality between median wage earners and workers at the bottom of the wage ladder. Addressing this issue is central to establishing wage equality for all workers but particularly women, as female employees are 60% more likely to be paid minimum wage than male employees.” Besides increasing the national minimum wage from $7.25 to $12.00 by the year 2020, this bill would also index the minimum wage to the median wage starting in 2021, and eliminate the tipped minimum wage gradually by raising the cash wage from the current $2.13 per hour to match the regular minimum wage.
4.28.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement on the earthquake in Nepal: “My thoughts and prayers are with the loved ones of those who lost their lives in the tragic earthquake in Nepal. My deepest condolences go out to the Nepalese community in Washington State and around the world. The United States will continue to work closely with the Nepalese government to provide support as it continues to deal with this crisis. As a member of the Nepalese Congressional Caucus, I will do all I can in Congress to ensure that Nepal receives the humanitarian support it needs .”
4.23.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement on the confirmation of Loretta Lynch: “I am glad to see the Senate finally confirm Loretta Lynch as our next Attorney General. Ms. Lynch, who is the first African American woman Attorney General, has spent her career promoting civil rights and equality. I look forward to working with her in this new capacity. I also want to thank former Attorney General Eric Holder for his dedicated service to our country through many difficult challenges.”
4.22.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement on Earth Day: “Protecting our planet is one of our greatest challenges. Climate change continues to result in unpredictable and extreme temperatures, rising sea levels, and extreme weather, all of which threaten our environment and future generations. In order to address the growing problem of climate change and to conserve our natural resources, Congress must make major improvements to our nation’s energy policy and take meaningful steps to reduce the impacts of global climate change. “We must continue to invest in and encourage the development of clean energy and energy efficiency technologies that will reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. Building a clean energy economy that cuts carbon pollution and promotes wind, solar, low-carbon fuel, and other renewable energy technologies is critical to saving our planet. “Earth Day serves as a reminder that each individual and community must play a role in protecting and preserving our environment. I am honored to represent a district that truly understands the importance of curbing climate change and caring for our environment. It was great to see that many South Sound schools pledged to power down equipment and lights to recognize Earth Day, as well as those communities in my district which celebrated their support for environmental protection. I look forward to continuing to work in Congress to promote legislation that combats climate change and protects our resources.”
4.14.2015	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement recognizing Equal Pay Day: “The Equal Pay Act was signed into law over 50 years ago, yet women still are paid less than men across all levels of education and occupation. The pay inequality that exists for women is discriminatory, harmful, and unacceptable. As women make up a growing percentage of the workforce and their family incomes, this pay gap has a devastating impact on children, spouses and the family as a whole. More must be done. “We must pass the Paycheck Fairness Act to help ensure women are paid equally for equal work. This legislation, introduced by Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), would make it easier for women to file class-action lawsuits, require employers to provide proof that pay disparity is based on performance and not gender, and prohibit employers from punishing employees who discuss salary information in the work place. I am an original cosponsor of this bill because it takes further steps to fix the discriminatory pay gap between men and women. “Equal Pay Day serves as a reminder that our current laws are not protecting pay equality. When women are paid equally for equal work, it benefits us all, and Congress must do more to ensure that they do.”
4.13.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement on the Senate HELP Committee marking up the Elementary and Secondary Education Act this week: “I thank Senators Patty Murray and Lamar Alexander for working together to offer a bipartisan ESEA reauthorizing bill that would finally get rid of No Child Left Behind. Everyone agrees that NCLB is deeply-flawed. Its policies have placed unreasonable standards on students, teachers, and administrators, and has led to award-winning schools to be labeled as failing. Nowhere is this more clear than in Washington State, where our loss of the NCLB waiver has resulted in nearly every school in Washington being labeled as failing, when clearly this is not the case. “I understand that Congress’s failure to pass ESEA reauthorization has put Washington State schools, teachers, and students in an impossible situation, and I will do everything I can to change that. Patty Murray and Lamar Alexander’s bill is a step forward in changing our broken policy. But a lot of work still remains to ensure that all of our students, regardless of where they live, are receiving a high-quality education. I hope their bipartisan proposal will spark further debate in the House of Representatives on how to reauthorize ESEA and get rid of NCLB.”
4.8.2015	Earlier this week, Sound Transit and the City of Bellevue announced a proposed agreement to move forward with construction on East Link light rail line. Congressman Smith released the following statement on the agreement: “I applaud Sound Transit, the City of Bellevue, King County and other stakeholders for working together to form an agreement regarding the East Link light rail. This agreement marks a major step towards building a more efficient and effective regional transit system that will benefit the regional economy. As this agreement is publicly discussed and debated, I stand ready to assist in any way I can.” Congressman Smith has been actively involved in this process. This engagement included a stakeholder roundtable hosted by the Congressman last fall, where attendees discussed challenges and opportunities within the corridor. Leaders from local government, the private sector, non-profits and neighborhood groups were in attendance. The Congressman and his staff remained engaged with stakeholders and will closely follow developments as they happen.
4.7.2015	Today, 181 Members of Congress filed an Amicus Brief in support of the Obama Administration’s appeal of a Texas judge's ruling that temporarily blocks the implementation of the Deferred Action for Parents and Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program and the expansion of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Both of these programs are part of the President's executive actions on immigration. “Last November, the President took legal and necessary executive action to reform our broken immigration system." said Congressman Adam Smith. “Today, I joined my colleagues in Congress in signing this brief so the President’s actions can bring millions of families and children who are part of our communities and live in constant fear of deportation out of the shadows." The Amicus Brief expresses the opinions of Members of Congress that the deferred action programs comport with Congressional will and the President has the authority to exercise discretion when enforcing immigration laws. Full text of the amicus brief can be found here.
4.2.2015	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement after a framework to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon was announced: For decades, Iran advanced towards a nuclear weapon. In the face of unprecedented sanctions, that stopped, negotiations began and we now have an opportunity to roll back Iran’s nuclear program. No one ever said it would be easy. Negotiators have worked tirelessly under intense pressure and scrutiny for more than a year. The framework announced today is a positive step in the right direction. We should be encouraged, but not satisfied. Far more work remains to be done as negotiators hash out the specifics outlined in the framework, but today the world took a big step towards preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. As we move toward June, I encourage the international community to seize this historic opportunity and pressure the Iranian regime to accept a final deal that verifiably prevents Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. That is the goal we should all be focused on achieving. And that deal must not be based on trust - it must be based on a robust verification regime. Preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon remains our top national security priority in the Middle East. Iran continues to be a bad actor throughout the region – fostering unrest in Yemen, Lebanon, meddling in Syria and threatening the very existence of Israel. Iran is a clear threat to our allies and interests even without a nuclear weapon. That does not change with this deal and Iran will remain under significant economic pressure for a variety of issues outside of its nuclear program. Cooperation on the nuclear program will not heal all ills for Iran. This deal has the potential to cut off all of Iran’s paths to a nuclear weapon in a verifiable way. Opponents should seek to guide the framework towards a positive outcome, not attempt to derail a final comprehensive deal. No final deal will be perfect, but the objective is to prevent Iran from achieving a nuclear weapon without going to war. In the months ahead, I will follow negotiations closely and encourage a peaceful and positive outcome.
4.1.2015	Washington, D.C. - Last week, Congressman Adam Smith wrote the House Appropriations Committee a letter expressing strong support for the President’s request of $87.7 million in Economic Support Funds to promote stability and economic development in Somalia. Somalia has made meaningful economic and security gains over the last few years and these funds would be targeted towards building government institutions and strengthening civic capacity. This is a key, necessary step to securing the flow of remittances to Somalia in the long-term. “The need to invest in Somalia’s development has been made clear by the recent situation affecting remittance flows from the U.S. to the country,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Although an immediate solution is needed, we should also simultaneously support the people of Somalia in their efforts to form legitimate, durable institutions.” On February 6th, Merchants Bank closed the accounts of all Money Transfer Operators (MTOs) to which it provided banking services. This has left Somali Americans in the 9th District and across the country without any secure means to send money back to their families. With U.S. remittances to Somalia making up a large part of the Somalian economy and being the only source of income for many families, this situation threatens the fragile progress made by Somalia. “While I continue to work with the National Security Council and other federal agencies to find an immediate solution, it is also critical that we look for long-term, sustainable solutions. This investment in Economic Support Funds will help Somalia build a stronger central bank and the robust regulatory institutions necessary to ensure that Somalia can participate in the international banking system in the future." Congressman Smith’s letter was co-signed by Congressman Keith Ellison and 9 other members. To view the letter, click here.
3.31.2015	THE Northwest Detention Center is a large, privately operated detention facility in the Tacoma Tideflats that has been in the news a lot this past year. Despite multiple hunger strikes, public protests and the introduction of federal legislation to address issues at the facility, immigration officials are set to sign another multimillion-dollar contract with the same private prison company that has run it for years. Due in large part to a misguided federal policy called the “detention bed mandate,” large, for-profit prison corporations that have the resources to build and maintain detention centers are left in charge of operating these facilities at a high cost to taxpayers, detainees and families of those affected. In the United States, GEO Group, the company that runs the detention center, and the Corrections Corporation of America are the only two corporations large enough to bid on a contract like the Tacoma facility. That leaves us with a detention policy that benefits them, but not society. The detention bed mandate, which was passed by Congress in 2009, requires U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to fill 34,000 detention beds for immigrants at any given time. Rather than targeting enforcement toward individuals who pose risks to our community, this indiscriminate quota incentivizes the inhumane and arbitrary detention of thousands for whom we have no justifiable reason to detain. Take Ramon Mendoza Pascual, for example. In September 2013, Ramon had a few beers at a bar in Auburn and walked to his car to go home. Realizing he shouldn’t risk driving, he called his wife, Veronica Noriega, for a ride home and waited in his car. When she arrived, he was gone. She was told later that Mendoza had been arrested on suspicion of DUI. Despite the fact a judge had dropped the DUI charge, when Noriega went to court to pay her husband’s bail, she was told Mendoza could not be freed. ICE had placed a hold on his case and he was being transferred to the Tacoma detention facility. Ramon was a carpenter, a volunteer for a local charity, a husband and a father of three young children. But on that day all that mattered to ICE was his immigration status. He is neither a flight risk nor a danger, but he’s now been detained at the facility for 18 months and can only see his family through a window. Not only is this overuse of detention inhumane, it’s also expensive. Since the passage of the detention bed mandate, the use of detention has skyrocketed to around 450,000 people detained every year. At an estimated cost of $164 per day for each detainee, our government spends approximately $5.5 million a day and more than $2 billion a year on the detention of immigrants. There are many less wasteful alternatives to detention that exist and offer a more fair, cost-effective and humane approach while still ensuring that more than 90 percent of individuals appear at immigration proceedings. Community-based support programs are one such alternative that have proved successful. These are programs where nonprofits provide immigrants with legal services, case management, housing and more while they await immigration proceedings in their own homes, rather than in a detention center. A Baltimore-based immigration advocacy group, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, has piloted community-based programs in the past and has built coalitions with local service partners in Seattle and elsewhere that provide important support and services at fractions of the cost of detention. Other alternatives include telephonic reporting and release on bond, enabling individuals to remain in their communities and with their families at costs averaging $5.16 per day, according to ICE. The stark contrast between $5.16 and the $164 per day it costs to detain an individual begs the question of why Congress requires ICE to detain 34,000 individuals each day. There is no good answer. Despite being more humane, just and inexpensive, only 23,000 immigrants receive alternative surveillance compared to the minimum of 34,000 who are held in detention centers. President Obama’s budget request for fiscal year 2016 included a large expansion of so-called “alternatives to detention,” or ATD. The bad news is the increased funding provides almost exclusively for ankle-bracelet monitoring, which only expands business opportunities for for-profit prison companies, like GEO. Additionally, this expanded funding does not repeal or reduce the 34,000 detention beds that are required to be filled. Any expansion of ATDs is only helpful and cost-effective if it’s coupled with less detention. Individuals should be detained only in cases where the government has proved that no other method is feasible. In order to ensure this, Congress must repeal mandatory detention laws and defund appropriations quotas that require 34,000 daily beds and instead invest money into community-based alternatives. Until Congress acts, ICE will continue to sign contracts with GEO and heartbreaking stories like that of Ramon Mendoza Pascual and his family will continue to be our legacy. This Op-Ed ran in the Seattle Times. U.S. Rep. Adam Smith, D- Bellevue, represents the 9th Congressional District.
3.25.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted on Fiscal Year 2016 budget proposals: “With increasing income inequality, decreasing wages, and a shrinking middle class, we need a budget that prioritizes those that aren’t sharing in the recent economic recovery. The Democratic budget does just that by expanding tax credits for working families, increasing access to quality education, improving our nation’s aging infrastructure, and ending sequestration. “Unfortunately, the Republican budget stands in stark contrast by instead giving large tax breaks to the wealthy while failing to address the challenges faced by many hard-working Americans. Their budget would slash funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) resulting in millions of children and families losing essential support to help put food on the table. It would turn Medicare into a voucher system, gut Medicaid and make it more difficult to protect Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI). It makes devastating cuts to education, research, and energy which will stifle innovation and the economy. “These budgets offer two very different visions for the future of our country. It is critical that we come together to support policy priorities in the Democratic budget that invest in our workers, expand economic and education opportunities, and provide funding to rebuild our infrastructure.”
3.12.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement on remittances to Somalia: “It’s now been over a month since Merchants Bank closed their accounts with Money Transfer Operators (MTOs) leaving Somali Americans in the 9th District and across the country without any avenues to send money to their families back home. This is an issue of life or death for families in Somalia as they rely on remittances from their families in the United States. Without a resolution, Somali Americans will be forced to find and utilize unregulated and insecure sources to get money back to their families. We must immediately address this problem. “A few weeks ago, multiple federal agencies that can address this issue came together to engage in a discussion on how to fix this problem. I was disappointed that no specific solutions were offered and that we continue to have no resolution. We need to take a creative approach to resolve this problem in the short-term and continue to explore solutions to resolve this issue once and for all. This meeting simply made clear that we have a long way to go. “There will be a meeting between Members of Congress and the National Security Council two weeks from now, and I sincerely hope that we can make progress. I will continue to do all I can to advocate for a solution and advance policies that ensure Somali Americans can send money back to their families.”
2.27.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement on Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funding: “House Republicans are yet again manufacturing a crisis to force their extreme agenda upon the American people. In December, Republicans funded DHS only through February with the intent to hold its funding hostage to jam through their extreme immigration policies. This dangerous strategy has failed, and once again we’re at the brink of shutting down the agency that protects our national security and the livelihood of the men and women that protect us. The Senate recognizes the importance of DHS and has come together in a bipartisan way to pass a clean funding bill. I urge House Republican leadership to do the same.”
2.27.2015	U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI) and Adam Smith (D-WA) and U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) have introduced legislation to extend through 2020 the Trade Adjustment Assistance program – which expires at the end of 2015 – and renew a vital 2009-2010 expansion of the program to provide assistance for thousands of service industry workers affected by trade, as well as for workers losing their jobs due to trade with countries with which the United States does not have a free trade agreement, such as China. The bill would also extend the TAA for Firms program, which helps businesses adversely affected by trade regain their competitiveness. A fact sheet on The Trade Adjustment Assistance Act of 2015 is available here. Trade Adjustment Assistance provides necessary assistance for workers who have lost their job due to trade. The Department of Labor estimates that since 1975 more than two million workers have relied on the TAA program to receive benefits to make ends meet and the training necessary to find new employment. Congress included a short-term TAA extension in the omnibus bill last year, but the statutory authority for the program expires entirely at the end of this fiscal year. “The extension of the basic TAA program at the end of the year while welcome did not address several key improvements that are vital to assisting an expanded group of trade impacted workers,” Reps. Levin and Smith, and Sen. Brown said. “For example, service workers and workers who lose their jobs due to trade with non-FTA, non-preference program countries like China are not currently eligible for TAA. Our bill restores benefits to these workers while also providing much needed technical assistance so firms can remain competitive. Our commitment to displaced workers and the value of the TAA program stands on its own merits and should not be held up by other trade debates.”
2.26.2015	U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI) and Adam Smith (D-WA) and U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) have introduced legislation to extend through 2020 the Trade Adjustment Assistance program – which expires at the end of 2015 – and renew a vital 2009-2010 expansion of the program to provide assistance for thousands of service industry workers affected by trade, as well as for workers losing their jobs due to trade with countries with which the United States does not have a free trade agreement, such as China. The bill would also extend the TAA for Firms program, which helps businesses adversely affected by trade regain their competitiveness. A fact sheet on The Trade Adjustment Assistance Act of 2015 is available here. Trade Adjustment Assistance provides necessary assistance for workers who have lost their job due to trade. The Department of Labor estimates that since 1975 more than two million workers have relied on the TAA program to receive benefits to make ends meet and the training necessary to find new employment. Congress included a short-term TAA extension in the omnibus bill last year, but the statutory authority for the program expires entirely at the end of this fiscal year. “The extension of the basic TAA program at the end of the year while welcome did not address several key improvements that are vital to assisting an expanded group of trade impacted workers,” Reps. Levin and Smith, and Sen. Brown said. “For example, service workers and workers who lose their jobs due to trade with non-FTA, non-preference program countries like China are not currently eligible for TAA. Our bill restores benefits to these workers while also providing much needed technical assistance so firms can remain competitive. Our commitment to displaced workers and the value of the TAA program stands on its own merits and should not be held up by other trade debates.”
2.21.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after the ILWU and PMA came to an agreement: "I am pleased that the ILWU and PMA came together to reach an agreement. I look forward to learning more about the details when they become available. Our economy, workers, and businesses rely on our West Coast ports so I am glad that they will resume full operations.”
2.20.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after President Obama’s speech: "I applaud President Obama for his remarks about Muslim Americans in his speech about countering violent extremists. The President is right- we are not at war with Islam. I am fortunate to represent many Muslim Americans in the 9th District and they contribute greatly to our community through their culture and faith. I look forward to continuing to work with them to create a more accepting environment for everyone in our community and across the country."
2.20.2015	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) reintroduced legislation to fix unfair Medicare reimbursement rates that disproportionately hurt Washington State patients. Currently, many physicians who serve Medicare patients in Washington State are reimbursed at considerably lower rates than doctors in other parts of the country for providing the same services. For example, in 2012, the average Medicare patient in Miami received over $17,000 in annual benefits, and the average Medicare patient in Seattle received only $7,300 in annual benefits. “Despite having one of the most efficient Medicare programs in the country, our state is punished with some of the lowest reimbursement rates for health care providers,” said Rep. Adam Smith. “This results in fewer doctors being able to accept Medicare and less patients receiving the care they need. Access to quality health care should not be dictated by your zip code. That is why I am reintroducing the MediFair Act, which would ensure that seniors relying on Medicare in Washington State would have equal access to doctors.” The MediFair Act would level the playing field by increasing Medicare reimbursement rates in Washington State and other regions with payments lower than the national average and decreasing rates in regions that are inefficient and have payments higher than the national average. Smith first introduced the MediFair legislation in 2002, concerned that Washington State’s Medicare reimbursement rates were well below average for other regions of the country. Fixing the regional disparities in Medicare reimbursement is critical to the program’s vitality. Representatives Derek Kilmer, Denny Heck, and Jim McDermott are cosponsors of this legislation. Click here for bill text.
2.18.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement regarding a Texas U.S. District Court’s injunction on the President’s executive action on immigration reform: “I am disappointed in the decision to temporarily delay the President’s executive action. The President acted within his legal authority to help fix our broken immigration system as President Bush, Reagan, and many Presidents have before. The President’s action is much needed as it would bring millions of families and children who live in constant fear of deportation out of the shadows and refocus our resources on individuals who present real risks to our communities. Delaying this critical action continues to ignore the glaring need for immigration reform and will continue to rip families and communities across the country apart.”
2.18.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement: “I was disgusted to learn about the vandalization of the school and Hindu temple in Bothell. These acts are unacceptable and will not be tolerated. From civic leaders to business owners, the Hindu community is a valued part of our society. In the face of this act of hate, our community remains strong and resilient. I look forward to continue working with community leaders to promote diversity, respect, and freedom."
2.13.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement on Republican’s refusal to pass a Department of Homeland Security funding bill: “Republicans continue to lose the immigration policy discussion and have now decided to hold funding for the Department of Homeland Security, a vital national security agency, hostage in an attempt to achieve their extreme immigration policy goals. “As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I understand the wide range of threats our country faces every day. There are individuals that plot and plan to attack us at home and abroad every single day and the Department of Homeland Security plays a crucial role in providing for our security. Threatening to cut off funding for this important agency simply to undermine the President’s immigration polices is highly irresponsible. “The unnecessary fight over funding for the Department of Homeland Security builds on the Republican’s legacy of governing through crisis. Republicans now control both chambers of Congress and with that power comes responsibility. It’s time to get back to regular order and fund the government like responsible elected leaders.” Congressman Smith spoke about DHS funding on the House Floor last night. Click here for video.
2.6.2015	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) joined colleagues in sending a letter to the Administration requesting an urgent meeting to develop an emergency plan to discuss Somali remittances. Merchants Bank of California is the largest financial institution that handles the majority of money transfers from the U.S. to Somalia. Last Friday, it notified all Money Transfer Operators (MTO) that it will be closing their accounts today, Friday, February 6th. As a result, Somali-Americans in Washington State will be unable to send money to their family members in Somalia. “I have heard from many of my constituents, and I understand that remittances are a large part of the Somali economy. These funds help many families pay for the essentials, like food and medicine. We need to ensure that residents of the 9th District and Somali-Americans everywhere can continue to send money back to their families in Somalia. I will continue to fight for policies that do so. “ Congressman Smith has cosponsored legislation and spoke with multiple government officials in attempts to find ways to continue U.S. remittances to Somalia. Additionally, Rep. Smith has hosted community meetings with constituents, money transfer operators, and banks to identify and discuss the challenges and opportunities regarding this issue.
2.2.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after President Obama released his Fiscal Year 2016 budget request: “Today, the President released a budget that prioritizes hard-working families who have not shared in or benefited enough from the economic recovery. The budget proposal would eliminate loopholes and special interest tax breaks to raise the revenue necessary to invest in making paychecks go further, and improving access to education and good-paying jobs. Our economy and our nation are the strongest when all Americans share in economic success. The President’s budget aims to build such an economy. “In stark contrast, the Republican’s agenda remains focused on maintaining the status quo where the wealthiest Americans benefit and hard-working families struggle to make ends meet. Moving forward, the President’s budget will set up an important debate that will help decide the direction of our country. It is important that Congress stand with the President and hard-working families to fight for an economy that works for everyone.”
1.28.2015	Yesterday, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) announced a commitment of $1 billion to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (Gavi). This money will help Gavi immunize 300 million children and save an estimated 5 million lives through 2020. The $1 billion commitment is subject to Congressional approval. Congressman Smith released the following statement supporting USAID’s announcement: “I applaud USAID’s commitment to Gavi and urge the Congress to approve the use of these funds. Investing in child immunization contributes to the global goal to end preventable child deaths by 2035 and develop new approaches to accelerate progress towards ensuring child and maternal survival. Developing countries benefit from healthy and strong communities that can cultivate the next generation of leaders, innovators, doctors, and workers. I would like to recognize all my constituents involved in RESULTS for all of their hard work on this issue and look forward to working with them to ensure Gavi is successful.”
1.22.2015	Washington, D.C. - On the 42nd anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision, House Republicans had planned on advancing extreme legislation that would have banned abortions after 20 weeks with the only exception being to protect the life of the mother. Due to strong opposition by Democrats and some Republicans, they instead introduced a bill that would disproportionately restrict low-income women’s access to abortions and family planning services. Congressman Smith released the following statement opposing the legislation: “On the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, we should be building on advancements in women’s healthcare rights and family planning services. Unfortunately, Republicans seem intent on stripping these gains and restricting both comprehensive healthcare coverage and access to abortions. I strongly oppose these efforts because the government should not be making health decisions that ought to be left between a woman, her doctor, and her family. “That is why I cosponsored the Women’s Health Protection Act, which protects a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions no matter where she lives and promotes access to family planning services. I will continue to do all I can in Congress to protect a woman’s right to choose and her access to the family planning services she needs.”
1.21.2015	Today marks the 5th year anniversary of Citizens United, a Supreme Court decision that allows corporations to spend freely in federal elections. This decision was a significant change from years of government efforts to regulate the power of corporations in campaign finance. Congressman Smith (D-WA) joined many colleagues in the House of Representatives today to introduce the Democracy for All Amendment. This would amend the U.S. Constitution to grant states' and Congress the authority to strip the ability for corporations to spend unlimited resources in elections. “Our current campaign finance system provides wealthy corporations and special interests disproportionate influence on our elections and in the process drowns out the voice of everyday people,” said Congressman Smith. “Congress must reform our campaign finance system to ensure that all Americans, regardless of wealth and influence, have a powerful voice in the election process. I cosponsored the Democracy for All Amendment and the Government By the People Act to reverse Citizens United and establish a new system where candidates can rely on small donors. I will work with my colleagues to pass both of these critical bills.”
1.20.2015	Congressman Smith released the following statement in response to reports of possible Senate legislation that would weaken the Jones Act next week: “The Jones Act is an important law that promotes a robust domestic maritime industry that helps to ensure our national security, while also providing for 500,000 U.S. jobs and producing over $100 billion dollars in economic output. Any attempt to repeal or weaken this law would be harmful to our national security and our economy.”
1.20.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after the President’s State of the Union speech: “Tonight, the President laid out a forward-looking plan to improve our economy by investing in the middle class and the American worker. Our economy and job growth continue to rise to levels not seen since the 1990s, but that growth is not being shared with the majority of our country. Incomes for the top one percent have grown rapidly, while incomes for lower earners have been stagnant. This has eroded opportunities for hard-working families, which has negative impacts on our economy and society as a whole. We can do better. “The President’s plan is focused on policies that will make paychecks go further, ensure upward mobility, and create and maintain good paying jobs at home. Reforming our tax code to expand tax relief for working and middle class families is critical to helping families who are struggling to cover essential costs. Through the President’s America’s College Promise plan, more programs like South Seattle College’s 13th Year Promise Scholarship will be created to help improve access to good-paying jobs. Additionally, investments will be made in clean energy and healthcare to ensure that good-paying jobs stay in the United States. This plan will go a long way to support strong working and middle class families, and in turn improve our economy. I will do all I can in Congress to advance this agenda. “I was also pleased to hear the President reiterate the need for comprehensive immigration reform (CIR). His recent executive action was a huge step in fixing our broken system, but this was a first step, not the last step. Congress must pass full CIR to make lasting reforms. “The President also spoke about our national security agenda. As we have seen over the last year, the world is a dangerous and complicated place. Combating ISIL presents a number of challenges. Russia is attempting to reassert itself in Europe. North Korea’s recent actions underscore the challenges we face with regard to nuclear non-proliferation and cybersecurity. Negotiations with Iran continue to be difficult. Congressional Republicans continue to do everything they can to prevent the Administration from closing the costly detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and developing a rational detention policy that the world can respect. “These are just some of the challenges that we face on the foreign policy front. None of these challenges were sought out by the American people but in order to ensure our national security, we must work together to confront them. Managing all of these challenges to perfection would be impossible for any President, but President Obama has been consistent and steadfast in leveraging the full arsenal of U.S. power. And we have seen some successes. “Leveling sanctions against Russia has had a significant impact on the Russian economy. While Russia continues to be a menace to its neighbors, Putin now fully understands that there are significant costs to his actions. Additionally, sanctions have brought and kept Iran at the negotiating table. There is now a possibility for a deal on Iran’s nuclear program later this year. "While we have decimated Al Qaeda’s core leadership, new challenges, such as ISIL, have emerged. The President has brought an unprecedented coalition together to confront this barbaric and troubling threat and I support his call for Congress pass a resolution authorizing the use of force. It will be difficult to find agreement on the specifics, but it is important for Congress to weigh in. “Tonight, the President discussed a world that presents a lot of challenges both at home and around the world. Moving forward, I look forward to continuing to work with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress as we work to confront these challenges.”
1.19.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement in recognition of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “There was no fiercer advocate for equality than Martin Luther King Jr. Despite daunting challenges, he never stopped fighting and his legacy continues to inspire millions of Americans today. As we honor the life of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., we must recognize that his dream to provide equality and opportunity to every American still has not been reached. Zip codes and incomes too often dictate one’s ability to access high-quality education, affordable healthcare, and good-paying employment opportunities, and the right to vote continues to be threatened for many Americans . To truly honor Dr. King’s dream, our country must come together and recommit ourselves to continue the fight for equality by reducing income inequality and expanding economic opportunities for all.
1.14.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after opposing House Republicans attempt to strip protections for DREAMers and the President’s executive action: “In their latest attempt to deport DREAMers, rip families apart, and obstruct progress on immigration reform, House Republicans are now threatening to shut down the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) if they don’t get their way. Instead of using this legislation as an opportunity to focus limited DHS resources on national security threats, House Republicans continue to play politics, and in the process are leaving millions of people and families to suffer from a broken immigration system.” “I’m also disappointed with the failure to open the process by which this bill was considered. Because of the closed process, Republicans refused to consider an amendment that I proposed with colleagues that would have eliminated the misguided detention bed mandate, which is costly and incentivizes the detention of more people when there are more cost-effective alternatives to detention available.”
1.9.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement in support of President Obama’s proposal to cover two years of tuition for students at community colleges: “I am very happy to see the President take action to make higher education more affordable and accessible for every student. Higher college tuitions and growing income inequality have made the cost of higher education an extremely difficult hurdle for students with limited resources. At the same time, more and more jobs are requiring degrees and advanced study, making higher education attainment more important than ever. The America’s College Promise proposal would make two years of community college free for students committed to their education. Providing universal access to the skills and education that our global economy demands is absolutely critical in leveling the playing field and ensuring that every student has the opportunity to succeed.” For more information on the President’s proposal, click here.
1.9.2015	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after opposing Keystone XL legislation: “I opposed the Keystone XL pipeline because I believe it is the wrong direction for our energy policy. Our nation must face the reality of global climate change and take steps to reduce carbon emissions. Rather than focusing on Keystone XL, we should be working on bigger picture investments in clean energy and energy efficient technologies that will reduce our dependence on fossil fuels that hurt our environment.”
1.9.2015	Yesterday, Rogelia Ortega, Governor of the Mexico State of Guerrero requested prosecutors drop the charges against Nestora Salgado. Ms. Salgado is a resident of Renton, WA who was arrested for her leadership in a community police group in her hometown of Olinalá in the state of Guerrero, which has a long tradition of legally-recognized community self-defense groups. “I am very encouraged by the new Governor’s call to drop charges against Nestora Salgado. This is a critical step forward, but we must continue to pressure Mexican officials to take action and bring resolution to this case. I will continue to work closely with Nestora’s family and the Department of State to ensure she is released from prison. The new Governor’s action adds yet another voice urging for Nestora’s release. Last year, a Mexican federal judge dismissed the criminal charges against her and issued an order of immediate release from federal prison. As her Member of Congress, Representative Smith has sent letters and made phone calls to the State Department to bring attention to the case and ensure Nestora can safely return to her family.
12.19.2014	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after the President’s executive order to create the Task Force for 21st Century Policing: “As the tragedies in Ferguson and New York made clear, our country needs to strengthen and build relationships between local law enforcement and the communities they serve. I applaud the President for creating this task force of law enforcement representatives, local leaders, youth leaders, and academics to prepare recommendations on how to improve policing. I was also pleased to see that Washington State’s Sue Rahr was selected to serve on the task force. Sue brings years of experience and perspective, and is an excellent choice. I look forward to seeing what recommendations the Task Force offers and will work to implement changes that will help build trust and relationships with local law enforcement and their communities.”
12.11.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement on the CROmnibus: “House Republicans continue to govern by crisis and fiscal cliffs . Under the threat of a government shutdown, Republicans are trying to force through unacceptable legislation that allows big banks to gamble with taxpayer-backed funds and empowers the wealthy to donate even more money to influence the political process. This attempt to curry favor with Wall Street and the rich simply recreates the financial environment that lead to the Great Recession. Additionally, in an ongoing effort to undermine the President’s Executive Action on Immigration, funding is only provided until February 27 for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), negatively impacting the ability of DHS to plan and accomplish their priorities. “We can keep the government open without these gratuitous measures that favor special interests over investments in good-paying jobs and the middle class. These unacceptable provisions have no business being in a spending bill to keep our government running and they should be removed before a vote. And if these really are Republicans priorities, than they should put them up for a vote on their own, instead of using legislative tricks and holding our economy hostage to jam them through Congress.”
12.9.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in response to the release of the Senate report on torture: The release of the Senate torture report today underscores a number of important points. First and foremost, the act of torture stands in stark contrast to our values. America has been and will continue to be a force for good in the world, and torture undermines our ability to protect human rights and dignity. We cannot demand something of others that we do not demand of ourselves. As many interrogators will tell you, an individual who is being tortured will say or do anything to make it stop. People being tortured will tell interrogators what they want to hear, which is often far different than the truth. Even in those rare instances where usable information is gleaned, that information is not worth the damage done to the American image overseas and at home. This is especially true because we know that information can almost always be gained through lawful methods. There are people upset by the release of the report today. Some will claim that releasing this report could jeopardize national security, but their anger is misplaced. The potential negative effects of releasing this report are not a product of transparency – they are a consequence of illegal actions in the past. Those who work at the CIA are often unknown American heroes. The vast majority of those CIA employees I have met and interacted with are intelligent people dedicated to keeping the United States and the American people safe. It is a true tragedy that the American people, Congress, and the White House were apparently misled about the unacceptable interrogation techniques. Congress must exercise far greater oversight over the activities of the Agency in the future to ensure that future programs are legal and effective. As Americans, we are better than torture and we should use this report as motivation to ensure that it never happens again.
12.9.2014	Today, Congressmen Adam Smith (D-WA) and Sander Levin (D-MI), as well as 30 other House Democrats, sent a letter to House Speaker John Boehner and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi urging the reauthorization of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program, which is set to expire December 31, 2014. Reps. Smith and Levin introduced the TAA Act earlier this Congress, which would fully reauthorize the program. “TAA is a critical part of our nation’s competitiveness strategy in the face of a rapidly evolving world economy and its reauthorization enjoys bipartisan support,” the Members wrote. “Congressional leadership and action to reauthorize TAA is needed to stop the termination of an effective program that helps American workers and firms compete, innovate, strengthen, and diversify America’s economy. We must do all we can to save jobs by helping firms readjust and workers regain their edge and competitiveness in the global marketplace.” Background: Congress created the TAA program in 1962 in response to the loss of jobs among hard-working Americans as a result of increasing global competition, as well as to promote American competitiveness. TAA benefits have several components: training assistance, income support while in training, and job search and relocation assistance. The program assists workers dislocated by the elimination of tariffs and other barriers to trade. Additional programs assist farmers, fishermen, and firms with the development and implementation of business plans to enable them to regain a competitive foothold. Click here for the full text of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Act of 2014. TAA by the numbers: • 2,192,910: The number of workers served by TAA since it was created in 1974 • 104,158: The number of workers eligible to apply for TAA in 2013 • 50: The number of states with workers eligible for TAA benefits in 2013 • 75%: The percentage of TAA workers who got a job within six months of finishing the program • 90%: The percentage of those TAA workers who remained employed at the end of the year
12.4.2014	Congressman Smith released the following statement after House Republicans passed legislation attempting to ban the President from taking executive action on immigration reform: “Today’s passage of H.R. 5759 proves once again that House Republicans’ priorities for immigration reform are to obstruct progress and to rip families apart. It is shameful that House Republicans are willing to take immediate action on this bill to restrict the President’s authority to provide relief for millions of undocumented immigrants, but for over a year have refused to allow a simple vote on a comprehensive immigration reform bill. “While Republican leadership continues to play politics, millions of people and families are suffering. They cannot wait any longer. That is why I opposed this legislation which tries to ban the President from using his authority to improve our immigration system and bring millions out of the shadows. I will continue to fight for deportation relief, reforms to our immigration detention policies, and most importantly for comprehensive immigration reform. We must come together to pass a meaningful comprehensive immigration reform bill that keeps families together.”
11.24.2014	Washington D.C. – House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in response to the extension of negotiations with Iran: While I had hoped that we would have been able to reach a final deal, I support the extension of the interim deal that maintains a freeze on Iran’s nuclear program and makes progress towards a final deal. The President has made it abundantly clear through his words as well as his actions, that under his leadership the United States will not allow Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon. I firmly support that goal, which is why I support the extension of negotiations. During negotiations, Iran’s nuclear program will remain frozen and the painful sanctions will stay in place. The extension keeps the pressure on Iran. It is clear that sanctions are having an effect, and that the economic impact has brought Iran to the negotiating table in a real way. We should continue to pursue this path and not forget that the President has assembled a rare level of international cooperation. The European Union has put in place forceful sanctions. China, India and South Korea are all cutting back on oil purchases from Iran or making it harder for Iran to profit. The world has united to isolate the Iranian regime, which cannot be lost on those making decisions in Tehran. We should allow the time and space to see if negotiations can work. We must also remember that negotiations are difficult, and they require significant effort from all sides. The issues are complicated and politically sensitive for all parties involved. Moreover, any potential deal must be lasting, enforceable and achieve the desired outcomes. Forcing an outcome that falls short of our goals or walking away from negotiations at this point in time would not be wise.
11.24.2014	Washington D.C. – House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in response to Secretary Hagel’s resignation: Secretary Hagel stepped into office during a very difficult time. In addition to dealing with the mindless cuts forced on the Department of Defense through sequestration, Secretary Hagel helped manage the continued drawdown in Afghanistan, and among other issues, the challenges posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), Russia and Ebola. These are significant challenges, and we owe Secretary Hagel a debt of gratitude for his efforts to deal with them. Secretary Hagel has been a very good partner with Congress. He worked hard to stay in touch with us, and ensure that there was good communication and coordination. I wish him the very best in his future endeavors, and I thank him for his service.
11.24.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after the Grand Jury decision on the death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, MO: "The tragic death of Michael Brown in Ferguson showcases major issues that need to be addressed in law enforcement throughout our country. To best protect our communities, it is critical that law enforcement work to develop and improve relationships with the communities they serve. This requires a police force that is representative of the people they serve. In Ferguson and in many cities across the country, law enforcement fails to represent the diversity of the people they are entrusted to protect. Additionally, the militarization of some of our law enforcement has led many to view police as an outsider and a threat, rather than a protector. I will do all I can in Congress to push for these changes."
11.20.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after President Obama’s announcement that he would expand deferred action for millions of undocumented immigrants: “I strongly support the President’s executive action on deportation relief. This action is long overdue and will bring millions of undocumented immigrants out of the shadows. It will provide relief for many families and children living in constant fear of deportation by allowing for discretion to focus law enforcement resources on individuals who truly pose a risk to our communities. I’ve met many undocumented immigrants who are law-abiding fathers, mothers, and children who have lived in the United States the majority of their lives and have contributed greatly to communities. I do not believe these individuals should be deported or be forced to live in constant fear of being deported. This executive action is a good step, but millions of undocumented immigrants will continue to live in fear. To truly address our broken immigration system, Congress must pass a permanent comprehensive immigration reform (CIR) bill. “Congressional inaction on this issue is incredibly frustrating because CIR has bipartisan support and could pass tomorrow if a vote were allowed in the House. Over a year ago, the Senate passed CIR with large bipartisan support and the House introduced a CIR bill shortly afterwards. This means that for well over a year, Congress has had the votes to pass landmark CIR with a pathway to citizenship. Shamefully, Speaker Boehner and House Republican leadership have refused a vote on the bill and obstructed the process for purely political reasons. In the meantime families and children have continued to be ripped apart by our broken immigration system. “Both Republicans and Democrats agree that we must address the fact that 11 million undocumented immigrants are currently living in the shadows. However, House Republicans have not only failed to offer a plan to address this problem and obstructed legislation that does, they’ve also insisted on moving backwards with continued attempts to repeal Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, which provides deportation relief for DREAMers. The failures of Republican leadership have forced the President to use his legal authority to act. His executive action to provide relief for millions is well within his legal authority. There is a long list of Presidents who have used deferred deportation as a form of discretion, including Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush Obama is simply expanding the list of those who should receive deferred action and I commend him for doing so. In Congress, I have strongly advocated for deportation relief, reforms to our immigration detention policies, and for CIR. I will continue to do all I can to work with my colleagues to pass a meaningful CIR bill that keeps families together.”
11.20.2014	Washington, D.C.- Today, Senator Sherrod Brown introduced a Senate companion bill to the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Act of 2014, introduced by Representatives Adam Smith (D-WA), Sander Levin (D-MI), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), and Charles B. Rangel (D-MI). These bills would renew TAA, which is set to expire on December 31, 2014. Reps. Smith, Levin, Rangel, and Kilmer released the following statement calling for the immediate passage of the TAA: “It is critical that Congress pass Trade Adjustment Assistance legislation before it expires at the end of the year. Both the House and Senate TAA bills provide critical work training, income support, and health care to help dislocated American workers transition and learn new skills for new careers in competitive industries. This vital assistance helps American workers and businesses adapt and compete in a rapidly evolving world economy.” Background: Congress created the TAA program in 1962 in response to the loss of jobs among hard-working Americans as a result of increasing global competition, as well as to promote American competitiveness. TAA benefits have several components: training assistance, income support while in training, and job search and relocation assistance. The program assists workers dislocated by the elimination of tariffs and other barriers to trade. Additional programs assist farmers, fishermen, and firms with the development and implementation of business plans to enable them to regain a competitive foothold. Click here for the full text of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Act of 2014. TAA by the numbers: 2,192,910: The number of workers served by TAA since it was created in 1974 104,158: The number of workers eligible to apply for TAA in 2013 50: The number of states with workers eligible for TAA benefits in 2013 75%: The percentage of TAA workers who got a job within six months of finishing the program 90%: The percentage of those TAA workers who remained employed at the end of the year
11.14.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in response to continued calls by Republican for U.S. ground combat troops in Iraq and Syria: “The incessant call by Republicans for U.S. combat ground forces to be sent into Iraq and Syria is ill-founded and does not comport with reality. We did that before, and it didn’t work. After nearly nine years of conflict, nearly 4,500 dead Americans, and more than $1.5 trillion spent, Iraq is still broken. Why do Republicans want to relive the failed policies of the past? “Yes, we should support the Iraqis as they fight ISIL, but they must be the boots on the ground in their own country. With our support, they must reach the political and military objectives necessary to stabilize Iraq. Only then can the stability be lasting. For years, we had more than a hundred thousand U.S. troops in Iraq, yet the sectarian conflict raged on. This must be a local effort. “Similar to Iraq, any U.S. strategy in Syria must continue to guard against U.S combat ground troops getting bogged down in another costly land war in the Middle East. A force is necessary to confront ISIL on the ground, but combat troops must be a domestic force committed to the long-term stability of Syria. We should train, equip and support moderate groups willing to confront Assad and ISIL. We need a capable and willing partner on the ground if we are to be successful in Syria as well as Iraq. But it must be a local force with the support of the local population.”
11.10.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after the President asked the Federal Communications Commission to protect net neutrality: “I applaud President Obama for coming out strongly in favor of net neutrality. An open internet is critical in promoting innovation, economic growth, and accessibility to information, and we must ensure that it remains free and open. For these reasons, I believe the FCC should implement a strong rule that protects net neutrality.”
9.16.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement as the House begins debate on an amendment to provide the President with the authority to train and equip moderate elements of Syrian opposition forces: “If left unchecked, ISIL could become a direct threat to the United States, but this isn’t just an American problem. ISIL poses a serious threat to our allies in the region. The people of the Middle East, with our support, must have a stake in this fight. “Today we will begin debate on an important piece of legislation that will, if passed, authorize the Administration to begin training and equipping moderate elements of the Syrian opposition. This opposition will become the backbone of the resistance to ISIL in Syria and the Assad regime. It will not be easy, but it is necessary. Eventually, there will need to be a capable force that can confront ISIL fighters on the ground and that ground force should not be United States military personnel. To achieve a lasting solution, the Syrians must help defeat this cancer. It is their country, and they will ultimately be part of what comes next. “In Erbil, with our support, our Kurdish partners have resisted ISIL’s offensives. In Mosul, the Kurds and Iraqi Security Forces, with US airpower, took back the Mosul Dam. We saw the Iraqis fight off ISIL in Amerli with the support of US airpower. There is a formula for success and ISIL can be defeated. We must continue and expand our support in Iraq and we must develop moderate Syrian partner who can take the fight to ISIL on the ground. “With that in mind, I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment and give the Administration the authority it needs to develop a capable partner that can help us remove this threat from the Middle East and the world.”
9.11.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in response to the President’s speech on ISIL: “ISIL poses an existential threat to our allies in the region and, if left unchecked, it will become a direct threat to the United States. These cowards have already killed two unarmed American journalists and thousands of innocent Muslims. Their allegiance is to a perverted vision of Islam that justifies the killing of innocent people and this threat must be confronted in a holistic and forceful way. Tonight, the President laid out an aggressive and appropriate course of action to address the threat posed by ISIL. “This is a fight against violent extremists – it is not a conflict between Sunnis, Shiites and the West - and any action against ISIL must be supported by a broad coalition of nations, which the President is aggressively pulling together. The Sunni countries in the region must play a key role in confronting this Sunni extremist group. “Any military action must also be complimented by a political strategy that leads to the inclusion of marginalized Sunni populations in Iraq. ISIL is primarily comprised of Sunni extremists, but it does not represent the beliefs and aspirations of the vast majority of the Sunni population. To undermine ISIL and achieve a lasting solution, the government in Iraq must include Sunnis. I applaud the Administration for continuing to make this a center piece or their strategy and I am encouraged by recent progress. Much more work remains to be done on this front. “ISIL is not confined to historically recognized boarders and any strategy to defeat ISIL must recognize that reality. That is why I support the Administration’s request to support moderate Syrian fighters. If we are to be successful in Syria as well as Iraq, we must have a capable partner on the ground. At this point in time we do not have that partner and so we should be working to develop the capabilities of moderate elements within Syria. “We must also be working to counter ISIL’s extremist message. This is not just a kinetic war – it is an ideological war. The distorted and manipulated version of Islam that groups like ISIL espouse must be countered and met with truth. “This is an extraordinarily difficult and complex problem that requires a thoughtful and strategic approach. In our limited involvement thus far, the U.S. military has had success in helping our partners on the ground push back ISIL. In Erbil, our Kurdish partners have resisted ISIL’s offensives. They have also pushed back ISIL in Mosul. Last week, we saw the Iraqis fight off ISIL in Amerli with the support of US airpower. There is a formula for success and ISIL can be defeated. It is time for Americans to come together and support the President as he ramps up our efforts to defeat this menace.”
9.11.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement in remembrance of the anniversary of September 11th: “Today marks 13 years since the tragic day that we lost 2,977 Americans to brutal and horrific terrorist attacks in New York, Virginia, and Pennsylvania. I know that for myself and for our nation, the pain of that day remains fresh in our hearts. “My thoughts and prayers remain forever with the victims of 9/11 and their families. We must recognize that without our dedicated first responders who showed unparalleled courage, the toll would have been much greater. The police, firefighters, and emergency medical teams that responded on 9/11 are true heroes, who in the face of evil and terrorism, risked their lives for others and displayed the true resolve and values of our nation. “On this day of observance, we come together as a nation to remember these horrific attacks against our country and to honor the heroes who sacrificed their lives to save others. We will never forget.”
9.8.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after President Obama delayed executive action on immigration: “I am disappointed by the lack of action on immigration reform. First and foremost, it is way past time for the Republican majority to allow a vote on comprehensive immigration reform. That is the best solution to our broken immigration system--comprehensive legislative action. But since Republicans refuse to address it, I believe the President should do what he can through executive action and am disappointed in the delay. We need to bring our undocumented population out of the shadows and offer them a path to citizenship. Failure to do so harms our economy and forces unnecessary hardships on countless families.”
9.2.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) sent a letter, cosigned by Democratic Members of the Washington State delegation, urging Secretary Kerry to take action in Nestora Salgado’s case: "Today, Congressman Adam Smith sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry urging him to continue efforts to release Nestora Salgado from prison in Mexico. Ms. Salgado is a resident of Renton, WA who was arrested for her leadership in a community police group in her home of Olinalá in the state of Guerrero, which has a long tradition of legally-recognized community self-defense groups. Federal courts in Mexico have acknowledged that Nestora was acting lawfully, and a federal judge issued her immediate release, yet Guerrero state courts refuse to release her. This letter was also signed by Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, as well as Representatives Suzan DelBene, Jim McDermott, Rick Larsen, Denny Heck, Derek Kilmer, and Juan Vargas. “We urge you to employ the resources of the State Department to continue efforts to secure Ms. Salgado’s release,” the Members wrote. “The authorities in the State of Guerrero have not demonstrated a concern for her well-being, nor have they carried out the due process of law afforded to Ms. Salgado.” The Members also expressed concern about conditions of Nestora’s imprisonment, as she suffers from neuropathy in her hands and feet, yet has been denied access to medication and adequate exercise, and is kept in isolation. These concerns are shared by representatives of the Mexican federal government. “We remain troubled by the detainment conditions to which she is subjected,” the Members continued. It is for these reasons that we seek your assistance to achieve a diplomatic conclusion to this long fought battle so that Ms. Salgado may return to the safety of her family in Washington State.” This is the second letter that Congressman Smith has sent to Secretary Kerry urging him to ensure that Nestora is afforded due process and bringing attention to her deplorable prison conditions. He also joined Nestora’s family and legal representation at Seattle University in a press conference to bring attention to her case and advocate for her release. This letter comes one year after Ms. Salgado was unjustly imprisoned. Full Text of Letter
9.1.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today issued the following statement in recognition of Labor Day: "On Labor Day, we remember and recognize the struggle undergone by American workers for fair compensation and to secure the right to organize and negotiate collectively. As the son of a ramp serviceman at SeaTac Airport, I recognize the importance of labor unions and their ability to bargain collectively not only for workers' rights, but also for building a strong middle class. “I believe it is more important than ever that we help rebuild a strong middle class by raising the minimum wage, supporting livable wage jobs, and fighting for education and workforce training programs. I have been a strong supporter of raising the minimum wage in my hometown of SeaTac and have re-introduced the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act to help displaced workers get job training services so they can be re-integrated back into the economy. “Our nation must invest in its workers and prepare them to compete in our rapidly changing global market, and I will continue to support legislation and initiatives that do so.”
8.5.2014	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) spoke with U.S. Ambassador to Mexico, Earl Anthony Wayne, about Nestora Salgado’s case. Ms. Salgado is a resident of Renton, WA who was arrested for her leadership in a community police group in her home of Olinalá in the state of Guerrero, which has a long tradition of legally-recognized community self-defense groups. “Nestora was unjustly arrested for exercising the rights guaranteed to her indigenous community by the Mexican constitution,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Not only have the federal courts acknowledged this, but a federal judge issued an order for her immediate release from the maximum security prison she is in since she is no longer being charged for federal crimes. Despite this ruling, she remains detained in unacceptable conditions and has not been granted due process. The United States must do more to pressure the Guerrero state courts to schedule a trial immediately or release her per the federal courts’ decision.” On April 18th, Congressman Smith sent a letter to Secretary Kerry urging him to ensure that Nestora is afforded due process and bringing attention to her deplorable prison conditions. He also joined Nestora’s family and legal representation at Seattle University in a press conference to bring attention to her case and advocate for her release.
8.1.2014	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in opposition to the House Republican supplemental appropriation to address the humanitarian crisis at the border: “Other than showing their absolute inability to lead the House of Representatives, Republicans also made clear that they have one priority: to deport migrant children as quickly as possible. This is clearly reflected by their attempts to strip Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and their supplemental appropriations bill, which prioritizes speedy removals above due process and the rights and safety of these children. This is entirely wrong and unacceptable, and it’s why I strongly opposed this legislation. “At a fundamental level, we must understand the humanitarian challenge our nation is currently faced with. Thousands of young children have left their families, homes, and everything they know due to unimaginable violence and fear. Sending these children back to some of the most dangerous countries in the world will not solve the problem and clearly highlights Republicans’ misguided thinking on this issue. “As a nation of immigrants and refugees, and one that has always valued justice and fairness, we must give these children due process, access to legal representation, and treat them in the most humane and caring way possible. And as a world leader in refugee resettlement, the United States can absolutely offer this, we just need to provide our agencies with the necessary resources to meet this challenge. I support the President's request because it provides adequate funding to do so."
7.30.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after House Republicans released their Supplemental Appropriations bill for unaccompanied minors: “The House Republican’s proposed response to the humanitarian situation is an unacceptable path forward. Their legislation prohibits unaccompanied minors from being placed with sponsors, is woefully underfunded, and strips the 2008 law that protects minors fleeing violence abroad. “Currently over 30,000 unaccompanied minors have been placed with a parent in the U.S. or with a sponsor, while they wait for adjudication of their case. This is the right approach. Not only does it alleviate the amount of resources that HHS needs, but it is also in the best interest of the children. Yet, this legislation would prohibit unaccompanied minors from being placed with sponsors. “The Republican proposal’s funding is unacceptably low and focuses on the wrong priorities. For example, the bill provides more funding to send the National Guard to the border than for immigration judges and resources that help speed up immigration proceedings for unaccompanied minors. The arrival of these children is not a failure in border enforcement, but rather the result of unimaginable violence in their home countries. “The legislation also weakens critical protections in the 2008 law and puts children in a vulnerable position without the necessary legal guidance to assist them through a complex, intimidating legal process. We are a world leader in refugee resettlement and have the necessary institutions and legal framework to provide due process for these children. This situation is evidence of why we need this law, not why we should strip it. “We need to pass a supplemental appropriations bill that truly protects children and their rights to due process, and I will continue to urge for the advancement of legislation that does so."
7.24.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after House Republicans unveiled their framework for addressing the humanitarian situation at the border: “The House Republican’s plan to address this humanitarian situation shows a misunderstanding of the circumstances, and fails to tackle the root of the problem. “First, the arrival of unaccompanied minors is not a failure in border enforcement. Not only are the thousands of children in the government’s custody evidence of that, but we have also met nearly every border security target that President Bush’s 2007 immigration bill set. The humanitarian situation at the border is the result of children fleeing horrific levels of violence in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, which has the highest murder rate in the world. To truly address this crisis, we must look at the root causes and find ways to help improve conditions in these countries. “Second, it is the wrong approach to address this humanitarian situation by weakening the 2008 law. This legislation, that passed with bipartisan support and was signed by President Bush, is in place to protect minors who are fleeing human trafficking, violence, and abuse. Now we have over 57,000 unaccompanied children within our borders, yet the Republican response is to weaken this law. We are a world leader in refugee resettlement and we have the institutions and the legal framework in place to give these children due process. This humanitarian situation shows why our country needs the 2008 law, not why we should weaken it. “As Congress considers the President’s request for funding, we should be focused on doing what we can to protect these children and to improve conditions in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. The fact that unaccompanied minors are leaving their families and everything they know to make an extremely dangerous journey away from their homes shows how unlivable conditions are at home. I oppose simply deporting them without considering the protections our laws provide. These children deserve due process, and I support increased funding for immigration judges and legal representation to help the unaccompanied children make their case in court.”
7.18.2014	Congressman Smith released the following statement regarding unaccompanied minors and the humanitarian crisis at the border: "In 2008, with bipartisan support, Congress passed and President George W. Bush signed a bill to protect minors who arrived in our country after fleeing human trafficking or other kinds of abuse or violence. More than anything else the recent increase in minors coming across our border makes it clear why this law is so important. Our country should do what we can to protect minors fleeing violence in other parts of the world, and the tragic situations in Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador have forced many children to flee those nations in search of safety. It is important to note that these children are not just coming to the United States. Costa Rica and Belize, among other countries, have seen massive increases in children migrating into their countries as well. "It is the exact wrong approach to say that we should respond to this humanitarian crisis by weakening that 2008 law. We should pass the President's supplemental funding request to help deal with the arrival of children coming into our country to get away from violent and dangerous situations, not gut the law that was set up to protect these children in the first place. "The supplemental money is badly needed to help process the children who have come across our border. Certainly not all will qualify for asylum or refugee status under the 2008 law or other immigration laws on the book, but they should all have fair representation to make their cases in court in an expeditious manner. "Finally, we should prioritize their placement with family members or sponsors. For families with children, we should seek alternatives to detention while they are awaiting their status determination. Many have family or friends they can stay with and others can benefit from numerous organizations that have experience in assisting immigrant families. Not only is this more humane than locking them up in detention centers, but it is also far less costly to our government. "The increase in children coming into our country as they flee violence in their own is undeniably a challenge for the United States. But as a nation of immigrants and refugees, and one that has always placed a high a value on justice and fairness for all, we must attempt to meet that challenge in the most humane and caring way possible."
7.17.2014	We must do whatever we can to achieve a cease fire in the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Hamas led government in Gaza. Hamas must reconsider and accept the cease fire offered by Egypt which Israel agreed to accept. Suffering on both sides has been horrific and we desperately need a solution to stop the fighting. As a strong supporter of Israel I want to again express my support for the people of that country. For too long they have lived under the threat of missiles falling out of the sky at any moment. The people of Israel long for peace and I continue to pray that someday it will come. I am also in contact with many of my Jewish constituents and my heart goes out to them as many have friends and relatives in Israel and all of them desperately want peace in the Middle East. I also have enormous sympathy for the people of Gaza. They have suffered throughout this crisis as well, living in unimaginably horrible conditions. Ultimately peace will only be achieved when the Hamas government is rejected and a viable two state solution is agreed to. I know that the overwhelming majority of the people in Israel and Palestine just want peace. It is my constant prayer that this will be achieved. In the mean time, again, we need a cease fire to stop the current suffering and I will continue to work with the Obama administration to find any way our country can help achieve that goal.
7.16.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after the Senate Republicans blocked the Protect Women From Corporate Interference Act: “I am disappointed that Senate Republicans blocked a vote on the Protect Women From Corporate Interference Act today, which would reverse the Supreme Court’s Hobby Lobby decision. The Hobby Lobby ruling set a very dangerous precedent that allows employers to deny health benefits, in this case contraception, to employees based on a company’s beliefs. I believe that health care decisions should be left to the individual, their doctors, and their families; not their employers. “This legislation, which was introduced by my friend Senator Patty Murray, would make it illegal for a company to deny any worker health benefits that are covered by federal law and would restore the guarantee that women have access to contraceptive coverage through their employer. In light of the Supreme Court ruling, it is critical that both the House and Senate pass this legislation. I am a cosponsor of a companion bill in the House, and will work hard with my colleagues to build support for this bill.”
7.14.2014	There is a common misperception that the arrival of unaccompanied minors from Central America to the United States is an immigration problem and a failure of enforcement at our borders. It is not. It is a humanitarian crisis. Our government has the responsibility to reflect our country’s values by treating these children in a humane way as they seek refuge from horrific levels of violence in their home countries. For this reason, I support the supplemental appropriation request to manage this situation. Our borders are secure as evidenced by the thousands of children that are in the government’s custody. They are being stopped by Customs and Border Patrol and that is the definition of border security. No border security measure can stop people from trying to cross the border to escape violence. This crisis can only be stemmed by addressing the root causes of their migration and helping to improve conditions in their home countries. These children deserve due process and the full protection that our current laws afford. I oppose simply sending these kids back without consideration of these protections, including asylum. To speed up the review of each child’s case, I support an increase in immigration judges, as well as legal representation that will help children to navigate the legal process. I will fight for these priorities to be implemented as we continue to work on humane solutions to this crisis.
6.25.2014	Congressman Smith released the following statement on the one year anniversary of the Supreme Court of the United States striking down parts of the Voting Rights Act: “A year ago today, the Supreme Court struck down key parts of the Voting Rights Act that protected voting rights in nine states that historically have had discriminatory voting practices. This decision continues to threaten the right to vote for many Americans. Any state can now implement Voter ID laws and redraw district lines to dilute the voices of large populations of communities of color without federal oversight. We must be doing more, not less, to protect the rights of all people and ensure we have equal access to the polls. “I am a cosponsor of the Voter Empowerment Act that would require each state to allow online voter registration, in addition to providing grants and other incentives to encourage states to better promote voter registration. The bill also prevents tactics like voter caging, and looks at the ways ballots and registrations are verified. I also cosponsored the Voting Rights Amendment Act which would restore parts of Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act while complying with the Supreme Court ruling.”
6.24.2014	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA), Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO), and 43 House Democrats sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson urging him to review their detainer practices and to halt the use of immigration detainers in their current form. “Through the [Secure Communities and Criminal Alien] Programs, DHS targets individuals encountered by local police – regardless of whether they are ever even convicted or charged with a crime – and funnels them into the deportation pipeline without an independent finding of probable cause for an arrest,” wrote the Members of Congress. “This dragnet approach has not only fueled racial profiling, it has also targeted thousands of individuals who would be eligible to seek lawful immigration status under the immigration reform proposals currently being contemplated by Congress.” Localities throughout the country, including Washington State and Colorado, have already limited compliance with ICE detainers due to costs, their negative impacts on the community, and concerns about constitutionality. In numerous cases, federal courts have found that current detainer practices fail to meet constitutional standards. “Communities across the country, along with our courts, have spoken loud and clear,” the Members wrote. “We urge the Department to undertake a full review of the detainer issuance process with the goal of reforming its practices and to discontinue the use of immigration detainers in their current form as part of the forthcoming immigration enforcement reforms.” Read full text of letter here.
6.19.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in response to the President’s action in Iraq: “The rapidly evolving situation in Iraq is deeply troubling. The current situation is a product of President al-Maliki’s failure to create an inclusive government and it will only end when he makes the difficult political choices necessary to unify Iraq. If he fails in this regard, the future of Iraq will be in serious question. That is why President Obama is correct in pressuring the Iraqis to think beyond military action. “That said, the United State maintains a significant national security interest in ensuring that ISIS does not take power in Iraq. We also should not get involved in another land war in the Middle East. We have spent enough in both lives and money. There are no easy options, but given the difficulties and what is at stake, the President’s strategy balances these vital interests, which is why I support the President’s plan to support the Iraqis with intelligence, training, and counterterrorism and operational support. “It is important to understand that there are two separate battles taking place in Iraq: there is the political rift between the Sunnis, Shia and the Kurds and there is a foreign extremist group – ISIS – trying to take advantage of the political environment through violence. If the Iraqis can resolve their political differences, it will be far more difficult for ISIS to thrive. Moving forward, we should continue to evaluate additional steps to help combat ISIS as we see what the Iraqis are willing to do politically, but we must also firmly guard against mission creep.”
6.16.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement on the announcement that President Obama will sign an executive order on LGBT discrimination: “I applaud President Obama for taking action on an executive order that will prohibit federal contractors from discriminating against individuals based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. It is a critical step forward in protecting LGBT workers in the workplace, and a change that I urged the President to make in a letter I signed to him. In many states, a person can legally be fired or denied a job simply because who they are, or are perceived to be, a gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender individual. This is unfair and wrong. “Along with the President, the Senate has also acted to protect LGBT workers by passing the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA). Yet, Speaker Boehner has refused to bring ENDA to a vote on the House floor. I am a cosponsor of ENDA in the House and continue to urge its passage. No one should be denied rights because of who they love, and I will continue to fight for LGBT equality.”
6.13.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement on the situation in Iraq: “It is important to remember that the conflict taking place in Iraq and Syria and other countries in the region is not new. It is not the result of a failed policy – it is the result of a longstanding sectarian conflict. A political solution is necessary to bring peace and the Iraq government must engage in a process that includes more than bullets. There is a desperate need for political outreach by the Maliki government to Sunnis. Military action without this outreach is doomed to fail. Iraqi political leaders have to make the hard choices that they have avoided for years. Their future depends on it. “As we consider our options to respond to the situation in Iraq, I encourage the Administration to maintain a sense of caution and fully consider the effects that a military strike may have. Certainly, should options be present to improve security in Iraq for the people of Iraq and to ensure our national security, the President should fully consider those options. But it is important to remember that military force alone cannot bring peace. For years, we maintained a significant military presence in Iraq and there was widespread unrest and conflict. U.S military action in a Muslim nation is not always a calming force. “The United States should continue to support the Iraqis with military aid, training, and intelligence support, but that alone cannot remedy the situation. The Iraqis must stand and fight for the security of their country. And the United States should provide support in any way that helps to bring peace.”
6.11.2014	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after he voted against passage of the Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations (T-HUD) bill: “I opposed the T-HUD Appropriations bill because it lacked critical investments in our infrastructure and failed to provide funding for essential housing programs for low and middle income workers. The legislation slashes funding transportation initiatives such as TIGER grant programs that encourage local communities to create innovative transit, port, and rail projects to meet the needs of their region. Additionally, the bill would cut funding for states and localities to expand affordable housing and down payment assistance for qualified homebuyers, and does nothing restore the 40,000 Section 8 rental vouchers lost to sequestration. Congress needs to pass legislation that expands economic opportunity and creates jobs, but unfortunately this legislation fails to provide the investments necessary to do so.”
6.3.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement recognizing LGBT Pride Month: “This month, we commemorate LGBT Pride Month by celebrating the incredible contributions of the LGBT community as well as the progress our country has made towards equal rights. It is also an important time to recognize that we still have a lot of challenges. Without passing a national Employee Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), many LGBT individuals can still be fired or denied a job opportunity simply because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. Also, same-sex couples are often denied spousal Social Security benefits because states they live in do not recognize their marriages. No one should be denied rights because of who they love, and in Congress I will continue to fight to ensure that all LGBT individuals receive equal rights.”
5.29.2014	The U.S. Commerce Department designated the Puget Sound aerospace industry as one of 12 Manufacturing Communities in the country. This designation will support manufacturing job growth and economic development in the Puget Sound region. Earlier this year, Congressman Smith wrote a letter supporting this designation and after the news released the following statement: “I am pleased the Puget Sound aerospace industry was named an Investing Manufacturing Community Partner. Our region’s aerospace industry supports over 132,000 jobs and is a huge part of the Puget Sound economy. This designation will provide the industry with more resources and preferred access to over a $1 billion dollars in federal grants, which will help strengthen the industry, create jobs, and spur economic growth. I thank the Puget Sound Regional Council for coordinating this application and all the organizations in the state who helped make this happen. This is great news for the Washington State economy.”
5.27.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement after the President announced his plan for U.S. military presence in Afghanistan post-2014: “I have continued to say that we must end our involvement in the war in Afghanistan as soon as we responsibly can. Redeploying the vast majority of our troops, but maintaining an initial presence of 9,800 military personnel to continue training the Afghan forces and to support operations against Al Qaeda is a responsible path forward. As we move through 2015 and 2016, troop levels will continue to decrease and reflect a more normal embassy presence. “We cannot and should not continue to maintain a large presence in Afghanistan forever, but we also cannot overlook our national security interest in the region. The announcement today demonstrates that the President understands this balance. The Afghan Government must now sign the Bilateral Security Agreement so the plan can take hold. Otherwise, our options moving forward will be vastly more difficult. “I applaud the Administration for following through on its goal of responsibly reducing our active involvement in Afghanistan. There will be other decisions to be made in the future about our assistance to the Afghan government, but the American people have paid a significant price in this conflict and it is time that we allow the Afghan people to take responsibility for their own future.”
5.22.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after his vote against the USA FREEDOM Act: “I voted against the USA FREEDOM Act today because this legislation has too many loopholes that continue to allow unwarranted government access to internet communications and phone data of U.S. persons. Although I continue to believe it is critical that our intelligence community has the ability to obtain information needed to fight terrorism, collection of that information must not violate civil liberties. Unfortunately, this bill does not strike the right balance.”
5.21.2014	Washington D.C. – As the House considers the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (FY2015 NDAA), House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith will offer an amendment designed to provide an effective strategy to close the detention facility located at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba (GTMO). The plan lays out six key steps to close the facility, including the removal of the unnecessary transfer and construction restrictions, which have provoked a veto threat from the White House. “As the number of detainees held at the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, continues to shrink, the cost to taxpayers will only continue to grow,” said Ranking Member Smith. “This growing cost, coupled with the ongoing damage to our national security and moral standing in the world, underscores the necessity to close this international eyesore.” “The Republican unwillingness to budge on provisions related to GTMO has now placed the bill at risk. It is becoming more likely that the White House will veto the National Defense Authorization Act in direct response to the GTMO provisions. We should prevent that from happening by adopting my amendment,” continued Smith. Operating the facility has cost more than $5 billion since 2002. Additionally, with the cost expected to increase in the coming years, we are currently spending approximately $2.7 million per detainee each year at Guantanamo Bay, compared to $78,000 per inmate to hold a convicted terrorist in the most secure federal prison in the United States, the Supermax facility in Colorado. The plan offered by Smith would not close the facility tomorrow. Rather, it clears the way for a gradual and responsible path forward. Specifically, the amendment would: 1. Strike the domestic construction (Section 1032) and transfer prohibitions (Section 1033) in the bill; 2. Authorize the Department of Defense to use funds to construct or modify facilities and to effect transfers into the United States, its territories and possessions, notwithstanding other applicable prohibitions; 3. Prohibit the use of authorized funds, after December 31, 2016, for the detention facility or detention operations located at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; 4. Expedite the process for completing of periodic review boards for GTMO detainees; 5. Require the President to develop a disposition plan for the remaining Guantanamo detainees; and 6. Redistribute $69 million in military construction (MILCON) funding allocated for a new High Value Detainee complex, which the Administration did not request, and restores $20 million cut for the planning & design for a HIGH PRIORITY missile defense radar site for homeland defense and $49 million to fund other MILCON projects. “The detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, is an international eyesore that undermines national security objectives, damages our credibility with regard to human rights and international law, and is a massive waste of taxpayer dollars. It is time to close this facility,” said Smith.
5.21.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member, Congressman Adam Smith, will offer an amendment (text) to the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act designed to uphold our national values by promoting due process and bolstering civil protections while enhancing public safety and security. “As we confront threats from violent extremist groups around the world, it is vitally important that the President has every tool and resource he needs to ensure our national security. In doing so, we must also ensure that we do not undermine the civil protections that we cherish so deeply in this country,” said Ranking Member Adam Smith. “Current law provides the President with the authority to indefinitely detain individuals apprehended in the United States – including citizens of the United States – without due process and with little independent review or oversight. While the President said that he will not utilize this authority, future administrations might and it is a frightening amount of power to leave on the books.” The amendment would eliminate indefinite military detention of individuals detained in the United States, its territories, or possessions under the Authorization of Military Force (AUMF), by providing for immediate transfer to trial and proceedings by a court established under Article III of the U.S. Constitution or by an appropriate state court. The bill would also repeal the provision in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2012 that requires mandatory military custody of certain individuals captured pursuant to the AUMF. “My amendment would leverage some of our strongest assets in trying suspected terrorists: Article III courts and domestic law enforcement. Federal courts have a proven track record of success: Over 400 defendants charged with crimes related to international terrorism have been successfully convicted in the United States since 9/11. We should build on this success, not undermine it.”
5.21.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement after being appointed to the Select Committee on Benghazi: “Today, I accepted Leader Pelosi’s appointment to be on the Select Committee on Benghazi. The loss of four brave Americans was tragic, and we must do everything possible to prevent such attacks from happening again. On that point, there is no debate. What is not clear is why this committee needs to be formed in the first place. What are Republicans trying to achieve? “Since the attack, there have been eight reports on Benghazi: a report done by the State Department Accountability Review Board, two bipartisan reports in the United States Senate, and five reports conducted in the House of Representatives. All questions that have been raised, have been thoroughly investigated and answered, yet House Republicans are demanding another costly investigation. But we Democrats cannot stop that. It is going to happen so it is better that we participate to at least try to bring some transparency, fairness and openness to process. It is, however, regrettable that the Republican majority has insisted on continuing this political witch hunt. “In addition to costing a significant amount of time and money, this witch hunt is costing Congress credibility. Oversight is a very important role of government. However, these repeated attempts by Republicans to find a scandal is undermining our credibility and damaging our ability to conduct legitimate oversight in the future. “This committee never should have been formed. We should be focused on implementing the recommendations produced by the many reports already completed by Congress and tracking down those who attacked us, not attacking each other to gain political points.”
5.8.2014	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) introduced the Accountability in Immigration Detention Act, legislation that aims to improve standards and living conditions in detention centers across the country. This comes after detainees in Tacoma went on a nearly two-month hunger strike at the Northwest Detention Center (NWDC) over access to nutritious food, isolation practices, treatment by guards, and other living conditions. “After visiting the NWDC to speak with detainees on hunger strike, it was clear that more enforceable standards were necessary,” said Rep. Adam Smith. “Many detainees are fathers and mothers who have committed no crime, yet are being held in unacceptable conditions for a prolonged period of time. This legislation is focused on improving living conditions for detainees and increasing oversight and transparency of the treatment of detainees.” Currently, all standards at detention facilities are created and enforced by ICE. Smith’s legislation would change federal law to ensure that detention center standards are federally regulated and created by a rulemaking committee that includes stakeholders like organizations that advocate for undocumented immigrants, local governments, medical experts, and more. In a statement, #Not1More said "We applaud Rep. Adam Smith's response to the peaceful protest by immigrant detainees in Tacoma, WA calling for better treatment at the privately-run facility. His office reached out immediately to us and he visited three of the hunger strikers in late March. During his visit he not only found their demands to be valid, he also promised to introduce legislation to address the demands and the retaliation the hunger strikers faced. Today he delivered on his promise. As part of the campaign to stop deportations and as representatives of those on hunger strike, we thank him for his leadership and courage in creating solutions to these issues.” The legislation also would require unannounced audits and encourage the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to consider alternatives to detention (ATDs) that provide a more humane alternative for individuals in ICE’s custody. The bill has 7 original cosponsors: Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Jared Polis (D-CO), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Filemon Vela (D-TX), Bill Foster (D-IL), Rick Larsen (D-WA). Link to full bill text Link to section by section of bill
5.7.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after Governor Jay Inslee appointed Ron Sims to serve as the Chair of the Board of the Washington Health Benefit Exchange: “I applaud Governor Inslee’s appointment of Ron Sims to chair the Board of the Washington Health Benefit Exchange. For years, Ron has been fighting to improve health care in our community as King County Executive and as a founding member of the Puget Sound Health Alliance. He is proven leader and tireless advocate for Washingtonians, and he will be a tremendous asset to the Washington Health Benefit Exchange. I look forward to working with him in the future. “
5.6.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith announced today that he will push an amendment to the FY2015 National Defense Authorization Act to remove the restrictions on transferring individuals from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba (GTMO) into the United States for trial or detention. Current law prohibits the United States from transferring detainees into the United States and from constructing or modifying facilities to house them for the purposes of detention or imprisonment, which prevents the President from closing the facility. “The detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, is an international eyesore that undermines our national security objectives, damages our credibility with regard to human rights and international law, and wastes taxpayer dollars,” said Smith. “As the cost for the facility continues to increase, so too does the need to close it. But, we cannot effectively close this facility until the congressionally mandated restrictions are removed.” Smith’s amendment will strike two provisions in the bill that would perpetuate congressionally imposed road blocks to closing GTMO. The two sections Smith will aim to remove are: • Section 1032—Prohibition on Use of Funds to Construct or Modify Facilities in the United States to House Detainees Transferred from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba • Section 1033—Prohibition on the Use of Funds for the Transfer or Release of Individuals Detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
5.5.2014	?Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement recognizing the life and legacy of Billy Frank, Jr: “Our state lost a great leader today when Billy Frank Jr. passed away. Billy never stopped fighting for the rights of Washington State’s native people and the health of our natural resources. His life and legacy of work will continue through the ages. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends, and all of those who were touched by Billy Frank, Jr."
5.1.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement recognizing the month of May as Asian Pacific American Heritage Month: “During Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, it is important that all Americans take time to reflect on the incredible contributions the Asian American Pacific Islanders (AAPI) community has made to our nation. As workers helping to spur our economy, as members of our military defending our nation, and as civic leaders in society, the AAPI community is a critical part of our history. I am honored to represent a district with effective civil rights and advocacy organizations like the Japanese America Citizens League and the Asian Counseling and Referral Services, and museums such as the Wing Luke Museum of the Asian Pacific American Experience. They honor our past, inform our present, and provide hope for our future. They are examples of the tremendous impact Asian Pacific Americans have had on our society. I stand proudly with millions across our country in celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month.”
4.24.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement after Secretary of Education Arne Duncan announced that Washington’s No Child Left Behind (NCLB) waiver will be removed at the end of the 2014 school year: “The news that Secretary of Education Arne Duncan is ending the NCLB waiver for Washington State is disappointing. NCLB is a broken policy that negatively impacts our schools’ ability to succeed, and it needs to be changed. Yet, the U.S. Congress has failed to pass a long-term reauthorization, forcing state education systems to operate under a temporary year to year waiver process. This creates uncertainty for our schools, and now in Washington State, a loss of our NCLB waiver and restrictions on federal funds to address student achievement. Providing a quality education to students is absolutely critical, and the U.S. Congress needs to immediately work to reauthorize our education law and end the deeply flawed requirements of NCLB.”
4.23.2014	Seattle, WA - The Boy Scouts of America (BSA) revoked the charter of Rainier Beach United Methodist Church (hosts of Troop 98) after they refused to dismiss openly gay scoutmaster Geoffrey McGrath. This comes three weeks after the BSA ordered Mr. McGrath to be dismissed as scoutmaster because of his sexual orientation. Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement: “I am very disappointed by the decision to revoke the Rainier Beach United Methodist Church’s charter and the BSA’s current policy to dismiss openly gay scoutmasters. I commend their recent decision to allow LGBT scouts to participate openly, but remain very concerned that dismissing scout leaders for serving openly goes against BSA values of mutual respect and inclusion of others.” Congressman Smith has sent letters to the Chief Seattle Council of BSA Rob McKenna and the President of BSA Robert Gates stressing his support for Mr. McGrath’s service as scoutmaster and his concern with the decision made by BSA. The letter was cosigned by Rep. Derek Kilmer, Rep. Suzan DelBene, and Rep. Jim McDermott.
4.10.2014	Congressman Smith released the following statement on the budget votes in the House today: “Since the economic recession, many hardworking Americans have been pushed out of the economy because they can’t find a job or have one that doesn’t pay enough to make ends meet. Only a small percentage of Americans are sharing in economic growth and income inequality has reached heights not seen since before the Great Depression. Our nation needs a budget that is focused on expanding economic opportunity, investing in innovation and infrastructure, and creating jobs to strengthen the middle class. “That is why I supported both the Van Hollen Budget and the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) budget today. These budgets recognize that extending emergency unemployment insurance, raising the minimum wage, and protecting programs like SNAP and Head Start provide essential support for hard-working Americans trying to find work in a recovering economy. The budgets also provide critical relief from sequestration and bolsters investments in education, job training, and innovation that will help create jobs. These policies set reasonable goals for decreasing our debt and deficit while maintaining investments in jobs and our economy right now. “Unfortunately, the budget passed by House Republicans today not only fails to recognize the challenges facing our country, but also moves us in the wrong direction. The Ryan budget radically dismantles Medicare by turning the system into a voucher program. It also cuts funding for programs like SNAP and Head Start, while slashing investments in innovation, education, and worker training programs that have been essential in helping families get back to work in a slowly recovering economy. And it makes these cuts without asking the wealthier to pay a penny more. The policies in this budget would be devastating to seniors, the middle class, and the poor, while giving even more tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans who have already benefitted massively over the last decade from the Bush tax cuts. “As the budget debate continues, I will work with my colleagues to promote policies that promote economic opportunity, reduce income inequality, and create jobs. Unfortunately, the Republican budget passed today ignores the real challenges our country faces and slashes critical programs that invest in our future.”
4.8.2014	Congressman Smith released the following statement in recognition of Equal Pay Day: “Equal Pay Day serves as a reminder of the discrimination that women face in the workplace. Over 50 years ago the Equal Pay Act became law, but women in the United States still face a significant pay gap. Women make up half of the workforce, yet earn only 77 cents for every dollar that men earn. This disparity exists for all levels of education and occupation. “This is not just a women’s issue. With women’s wages continuing to make up a growing share of family incomes, pay inequality negatively impacts both children and spouses as well. “As we recognize Equal Pay Day, it is critical that Congress continues to push for the Paycheck Fairness Act that would fight to end gender-based wage discrimination. Additionally, I commend the President on his recent executive actions promoting equal pay in the federal workforce by banning federal contractors from retaliating against employees for discussing compensation and directing the Secretary of Labor to collect data on compensation paid to federal employees. When women are paid equally for equal work, it benefits us all.”
4.2.2014	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after the Supreme Court of the United States’ (SCOTUS) decision in McCutcheon v. FEC case: “I am disappointed by the SCOTUS decision today that struck down limits in the federal law that restricted how much individuals could donate to campaigns, parties, or political action committees. This ruling will put even more political influence in the hands of an extremely small percentage of wealthy people and limit opportunities for candidates that lack the support of wealthy donors from winning office. “In order to maintain the democratic election process, we need a system where all citizens are empowered and able to participate. A viable public financing system would help to ensure that all of our citizens, regardless of economic resources, have a powerful voice. That is why I am a cosponsor of the Government By the People Act which would allow candidates to run competitive campaigns by relying on small dollar donors and reduce the influence of big money in politics.”
4.2.2014	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after Representative Paul Ryan released his budget proposal for FY2015: “As we continue to recover from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, we need a budget that expands economic opportunity. This requires a focus on increased job training and improvements to education, while also supporting hardworking Americans who have been pushed out of the economy by restoring unemployment benefits, raising the minimum wage, and expanding the earned income tax credit. Additionally, the budget must invest in innovation, infrastructure, and advancing comprehensive immigration reform to create jobs and strengthen the middle class. “The Republican budget introduced yesterday not only fails to accomplish these goals, it goes in the opposite direction. The proposal would be devastating to seniors, the middle class, and the poor, while giving even more tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans who have already benefitted massively over the last decade from the Bush tax cuts. The Ryan budget radically dismantles Medicare by turning the system into a voucher program. It also cuts funding for programs like SNAP and Head Start, while slashing critical investments in innovation, education, and worker training programs that have been essential in helping families get back to work in a slowly recovering economy. And it makes these cuts without asking the wealthier to pay a penny more. “While Ryan’s budget does increase the Defense Budget in future years, it does so at the expense of the investments we need here at home. It is impossible to maintain a strong national defense if we do not maintain our economic prowess. By slashing important programs that invest in our future, this Republican proposal short-changes our economy, the American people and our national defense.”
3.24.2014	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after speaking with Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson about the Northwest Detention Center (NWDC) and deportation policy: “I had a productive conversation with the DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson. I spoke with him about my recent visit to the NWDC and made sure he was fully aware of all the concerns that were brought to my attention by the detainees I met with, their friends and relatives, and advocates in the community. Secretary Johnson has visited a detention facility in Texas and plans to visit more in the near future. I asked that he continue to visit facilities and invited him to come see the NWDC in Tacoma in hopes that these visits will lead to a review of policies at detention centers. “Additionally, we spoke about the issue of deportation. I expressed my concerns about the rising number of immigrants being deported and how this has a devastating impact on families in our community. Secretary Johnson understands these concerns and ensured me that DHS is reviewing all deportation policies, as the President announced this week. I have a great working relationship with Secretary Johnson from his tenure at the Defense Department, and I look forward to continuing working with him in his new capacity on this issue.”
3.21.2014	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) announced agreements on the disadvantaged business enterprises (DBE) program: “I am glad to see that WSDOT took steps to ensure compliance with the DBE program standards. Over the last year, I have had an ongoing dialogue with community stakeholders on this issue, and have received a lot of feedback. As this project continues, I will continue to monitor the situation and remain in close contact with all involved.”
3.14.2014	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement regarding reports of a hunger strike at the Northwest Detention Center in Tacoma: “I am very concerned with the reported hunger strike at the Northwest Detention Center (NWDC) in Tacoma. Over the last week, I have heard from many constituents that are relatives, friends, and advocates of those detained at the NWDC, who still have many unanswered questions. On Tuesday, my office initiated a conversation with ICE and the NWDC to directly express my concerns as well as relay questions my constituents and I have about what is going on and what is being done to fix the situation. Although we received some answers, we are still waiting for a formal response on many questions we submitted with Rep. DelBene’s office, including the bond process, length of detention, and nutrition standards. My staff and I will continue to push for answers and closely monitor the situation at the detention center.”
3.6.2014	Today, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA), Rep. Sandy Levin (D-MI), Rep. Derek Kilmer (D-WA), and Rep. Charles Rangel (D-MI) introduced the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Act of 2014 to provide critical job training and worker assistance for Americans who have lost their jobs due to increased competition in the global marketplace. The U.S. manufacturing, service, farming, and fishing sectors have been hit hard with declines in employment, and American workers need support and training to secure new employment. At the beginning of this year, TAA expired for thousands of service industry workers affected by trade, as well as for workers losing their jobs due to imports from countries including China. If Congress doesn’t reauthorize TAA by the end of the year, the entire program will expire. "Our nation's economy and success depend on our workers,” said Rep. Adam Smith. “As we continue to recover from the economic crisis and adapt to a rapidly changing economy, it is critical that we update and improve the TAA program to help workers transition. In the face of greater global competition, we need to provide training, income support, and healthcare to help displaced workers adjust and enhance their skills for new jobs and careers." The Trade Adjustment Assistance Act would ensure that TAA eligibility is available to workers and firms in the services and manufacturing sectors, workers whose firms shift production to (or are adversely affected by imports from) FTA and non-FTA countries, U.S. suppliers of component parts, public sector workers, and farmers and fishermen. The bill also invests in American workers by restoring comprehensive levels of benefits in areas such as job training, case management, income support, and job search and relocation allowances that are critical to workers adversely affected by increased global competition. Mr. Levin added, “It is urgent that we reinstate the full TAA program for dislocated workers who are building new careers for themselves. As we seek to fully benefit from globalization we must maintain structures that allow us to address its challenges for the workers and firms who are prepared to compete when they are given the tools to do so.” Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles Rangel agreed. He noted that “we need to continue to give dislocated workers the option of improving their skills, or learning new ones, as part of our commitment to making sure the American worker benefits from globalization.” Congress created the TAA program in 1962 in response to the loss of jobs among hard-working Americans as a result of increasing global competition as well as to promote American competitiveness. TAA benefits have several components: training assistance, income support while in training, and job search and relocation assistance. The program assists workers dislocated by the elimination of tariffs and other barriers to trade. Additional programs assist farmers, fishermen, and firms with the development and implementation of business plans to enable them to regain a competitive foothold. Rep. Derek Kilmer added, “As someone with over a decade of experience in economic development, I know that job training is a key catalyst for job growth. Our workers and employers have to compete with those of countries around the world. That’s why we need to ensure access to training that can protect and produce quality jobs. TAA helps to do just that, which is why I’m going to do everything I can to build support for this bill in the House.”
3.4.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s FY2015 budget: “As we continue to recover from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, income inequality continues to rise and many hard-working Americans aren’t sharing in opportunities for economic growth. The budget President Obama laid out today expands economic opportunities for all Americans through policies that extend emergency unemployment insurance, expand the earned income tax credit, raise the minimum wage, and make commitments to education and job training. Additionally, by investing in innovation, education, infrastructure, and calling for advancing comprehensive immigration reform, this budget will create jobs and strengthen the middle class. The President’s budget does this while continuing to reduce the deficit. As the budget advances through the legislative process, I will work with my colleagues towards passing an FY2015 budget that promotes economic opportunity, reduces income inequality, and creates jobs.”
2.13.2014	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement today after Congressman Doc Hastings announced he would not seek re-election to Congress this year: “For nearly 20 years, Doc Hastings has served the people of Washington State. He has been a very influential Member of Congress serving as the Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and on the House Ethics Committee. I have enjoyed working with Doc over the years. I thank him for his service, and I wish him and his family all the best in the future.”
2.11.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in opposition to legislation that would add another year of sequestration to mandatory spending in exchange for repealing cost of living adjustments for retired working age members of the Armed Services: “There are a number of serious problems with this legislation. This bill has profound implications in a number of different areas, and yet we did not have time to consider the legislation adequately to figure out the long-term impacts it will have. “Through adding another year of sequestration, this legislation takes from folks who rely on Medicare and other mandatory programs, and from readiness accounts that prepare and train our troops. This is unacceptable. These are challenging issues that we need to address, but Congress keeps refusing to make difficult choices demanded of us. We are simply robbing one group of deserving people to pay for helping another group of deserving people. This is just a shell game, and it is irresponsible. “By repealing the COLA provision that was just agreed to a month ago in this very body, we are forcing the Department of Defense to focus on personnel costs. Personnel costs continue to make up an increasingly large portion of the defense budget and it is squeezing out other portions, forcing cuts to readiness and procurement, which means that troops will not have the equipment and resources necessary to train and be prepared. This could lead to a hollow force that is not trained to fight the fights that we ask of them. Again, we are robbing one part of the Pentagon to pay for another. “As far as the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) or “Doc fix” portion of this bill is concerned, I think we need to fix it. Cuts to physicians’ Medicare reimbursement rates would negatively impact health care access for Medicare patients. I strongly support paying for a SGR fix, but this bill pays for it in the exact wrong way. I am willing to raise taxes and cut spending in other areas to do so, but paying for it through sequestration’s indiscriminate cuts to mandatory programs is irresponsible and unacceptable.”
2.11.2014	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after he voted to lift the debt ceiling until March 2015: "I am pleased that the House passed legislation today to lift the debt limit until March 2015 with bipartisan support. Raising the debt limit allows the U.S. government to pay the bills we have already incurred, and in no way increases spending. I am encouraged that House Republican leadership offered a clean debt limit vote that wasn’t tied to any partisan policies. Further, by removing the potential of a destabilizing and destructive default on our obligations, lifting the debt limit allows us the focus more on advancing policies that grow our economy, create jobs, and expand economic opportunity.”
1.29.2014	Congressman Smith released the following statement after voting against the farm bill due to Supplemental and Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) cuts: “Although I was encouraged by the bipartisan work that went into finalizing the farm bill, I voted against this bill because the cuts it would make to SNAP would reduce essential nutrition support for 850,000 households across the country. The farm bill would cut $8.6 billion from the program over the next 10 years, with a disproportionate amount of cuts to Washington State. “While in the 9th District, I have visited with multiple nutrition assistance organizations and community leaders, and seen firsthand how thousands of our state’s children, veterans, seniors, disabled, and hard-working families rely on SNAP every day. This program is as important now as it has ever been. With our economy continuing to recover and many Americans still searching for employment, I could not support legislation that takes essential nutrition support away from people who desperately need it.”
1.28.2014	Congressman Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after President Obama gave the 2014 State of the Union: "Tonight, the President laid out some great ideas about how to reduce income inequality, grow the economy, and ensure every American has equal economic opportunities. "We need to raise the minimum wage. Over the last few decades, cost of living has continued to rise while the minimum wage has been stagnant. As a result, working full-time at minimum wage is no longer enough to keep families out of poverty. My father, who worked as a baggage handler for United Airlines decades ago, made more money than someone doing the same job today. "We need to ensure that hard-working Americans earn enough to support their families and make ends meet. I have supported federal and local initiatives to increase the minimum wage, and was pleased to see the President institute an executive order that will raise the minimum wage to $10.10 per hour for those working on new federal contracts. Now it's Congress' turn. "We also need to support Americans with policies that get everyone who needs a job back to work. After the largest economic crisis since the Great Depression, many Americans have been squeezed out of the economy because they can't find a job or have one that doesn't provide enough to pay the bills. "We need supports like unemployment insurance, job training, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Head Start, and other programs that enable hard-working Americans to provide for their families while still struggling to recover from the economic downturn. "As we focus on these critical issues, there is reason for optimism. The economy continues its recovery and has created 8 million jobs in less than 4 years. As this growth continues, however, we need to ensure that all Americans are sharing in this prosperity. Additionally, Congress has come together in bipartisan fashion to pass an appropriations bill that I am hopeful will spur further bipartisanship and stability in our government. "I look forward to working with the President, his administration, and all my colleagues to advance the goals the President laid out tonight of reducing income inequality, promoting equal economic opportunities, and growing the economy."
1.20.2014	Congressman Smith released the following statement in recognition of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: "As we celebrate the life of Martin Luther King Jr., we remember Dr. King's dream to provide every American with equal rights and opportunities. Although many barriers stood in his way, he spent his life working to achieve this goal and inspired millions more to do so as well. Dr. King's efforts continue to make our nation better today. "We still have a lot of work to do to achieve Dr. King's goal. Income inequality continues to increase and millions of people still have unequal access to a good education and employment opportunities. On Martin Luther King Jr. Day, we honor his legacy by recognizing that we all must do our part to improve our communities and continue the fight for equality."
1.15.2014	Congressman Smith released the following statement after the House passed the Fiscal Year 2014 Consolidated Appropriations Act: “After the sequester’s painful and mindless cuts to important federal programs, this bill begins to repair some of the damage by providing critical funding for early childhood education and Head Start, and sequester relief for the Department of Defense and other vitally important housing, transportation, and technology programs. “This bill is by no means perfect. It fails to restore unemployment insurance and leaves critical areas such as the National Institutes of Health underfunded, and I will keep working to address the multiple areas where this bill falls short. However, it was imperative that we took this step forward to provide our government with much needed stability. By helping to avert a potential government shutdown, I am hopeful this legislation will create more opportunities for Congress to advance policies that expand economic opportunity for all Americans. “This bill is only the beginning of a long process to get back on track. We need forward-thinking policies that are focused on job creation, growing the economy, and reducing income inequality. I look forward to continuing to work with all of my colleagues to advance these priorities. “
1.10.2014	Today, Congressman Adam Smith reintroduced H.R. 3825, the Freight Infrastructure Reinvestment Act of 2014 (FIRA), a bill that will support improvements to infrastructure and transportation in the national freight mobility network. “Our nation’s freight transportation system plays a significant role in our ability to grow the economy and compete globally,” said Congressman Smith. “With our nation’s freight expected to double by 2040, it is critical to start making investments in freight and transportation infrastructure now to keep America competitive internationally for years to come.” FIRA would establish the National Freight Mobility Infrastructure Improvement Program through the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) that would provide competitive grants to states and designated entities to improve the efficiency and capacity of freight networks. These entities would work in collaboration with their communities to identify projects of national or regional significance and apply for the grants. The Secretary of Transportation would award funds based on the project’s ability to improve freight infrastructure, cost effectiveness, and its economic impact. “Our multimodal freight transportation system is a national asset that we have failed to appreciate and support. Nowhere is this need more pressing than in the freight system that provides for our nation’s commerce,” said Port of Tacoma Commissioner Don Meyer. “Without strategic corridor investments to expand capacity and increase efficiency, U.S. productivity and global competitiveness will suffer, costs will increase and investment will lag. We applaud Congressman Smith’s efforts to make this vision of strategic freight mobility a reality.” The legislation would fund these competitive grants through a user fee on the shipment of freight cargo within the United States. The fee would be 1 percent of the total cost of transport and all the fees collected would go directly to the National Freight Mobility Infrastructure Fund, a dedicated source of funding for freight mobility improvement projects. “More and more our government and business leaders are agreeing that freight infrastructure is key to economic growth and merits public support,” said Leslie Blakey, Executive Director of the Coalition for America’s Gateways and Trade Corridors. “Currently absent from the menu of transportation investment mechanisms is a freight-specific grant program and a dedicated funding source. Congressman Smith’s proposal is truly creative and we applaud his vision.” The bill has been cosponsored by Representative Albio Sires, Representative Steve Cohen, and Representative Janice Hahn and has now been sent to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure for further consideration.
1.8.2014	Congressman Smith released the following statement recognizing the 50th Anniversary of the War on Poverty: “Today marks the 50th Anniversary of Lyndon Johnson’s War on Poverty. In 1967 the poverty rate was about 26 percent compared to only 16 percent in 2012. Studies show that absent anti-poverty programs like SNAP, unemployment insurance, housing subsidies, Head Start, earned-income tax credits, and more the poverty rate would be much higher. “Even with these critical safety nets, too many people are being squeezed out of the economy because they can’t find a job or that they have one that doesn’t provide enough to pay the bills. On the 50th Anniversary of the War on Poverty, we must continue to advance education and job-training programs, as well as policies that raise the minimum wage and extend unemployment insurance to move Americans out of financial insecurity and strengthen the middle class.”
12.24.2013	Congressman Smith released the following statement on unemployment insurance: “Despite consecutive months of job growth, our economy is still recovering from one of the worst recessions since the Great Depression. Through no fault of their own, millions of hardworking Americans continue to struggle to find employment. Yet, even with rates of long-term unemployed Americans near historic highs, federal unemployment insurance is set to expire three days after Christmas for 24,400 Washingtonians and for 40,000 more in the first half of 2014 if Congress does not act. That is unacceptable. “Unemployment insurance benefits provide essential support for individuals and families while they are searching for work. Congress should extend unemployment benefits for hardworking Americans, not stand idly by as they expire.”
12.12.2013	Congressman Adam Smith, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following the budget agreement passed the House of Representatives: “This budget deal, while not perfect, is a small step forward. It provides two years of relief from sequestration for the Department of Defense as well as other vitally important portions of the discretionary budget, such as education, technology, housing, transportation and Head Start. Sequestration has been wreaking havoc on these critical programs, and this deal provides some relief. “The deal also provides some space for Congress to begin to function normally again. It will help to avert political standoffs that threaten to shut the government down and it will offer some much-needed support for our government and economy. I am hopeful that greater certainty will allow us to focus on what is important for the American people, such as policies that support the middle class and grow our economy. “Today’s budget deal marks a beginning, not an end. There is much more work to be done. Our debt and deficit are still unsustainable in the long-term, and we desperately need forward thinking policies that continue to address our budget issues in a comprehensive way that raises revenue and reduces spending. I thank Senator Patty Murray and Representative Paul Ryan for working in a bipartisan way, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to find long-term solutions that reflect our priorities of making a stronger middle class and expanding economic opportunity.” ###
12.12.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement after the House passed the Fiscal Year 2014 National Defense Authorization Act: “I want to thank Chairman McKeon, all members of the House of Representatives and staff for their hard work on this important piece of legislation. “While this bill is not perfect, it makes progress in several key areas and it prioritizes our troops deployed in Afghanistan, and around the world, by ensuring that they have the tools and resources they need to do their job and ensure national security. “Now that the House has acted, I urge my Senate colleagues to follow suit. This is a must-pass piece of legislation. Currently, sequestration is wreaking havoc on our military. Employees have been furloughed. The department continues to be forced to function under a continuing resolution, which severely hinders its ability to plan and budget. If we don’t pass an authorization bill, the strain on our military will be taken to a new and unnecessary level. “Without this bill, our troops will lose the incentive pay we provide them for developing the specialized skills that make our men and women in uniform the most effective military the world has ever known. Without this bill, our efforts in Afghanistan will be harmed, making it difficult to draw down our presence and hand responsibility for security to the Afghan government. Not passing the bill would disrupt acquisition and shipbuilding programs, wasting vital taxpayer dollars. At a crucial time, not passing the bill would also restrict our ability to destroy Syria’s chemical weapons, and prevent changes in law that would help combat sexual assault in the military. These are just some of the negative effects of not passing the National Defense Authorization Act this year. “The bill took a difficult course this year, and we must get back to a normal process, but I believe that all members have had the opportunity to shape the outcome. Given the firm dedication of all parties involved, I believe that we have found a way to get this bill to the President’s desk and I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to move quickly on this important piece of legislation.”
12.10.2013	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement on the budget agreement: “It is critical that Congress functions more effectively. We have a tremendous amount of work to do to grow our economy, create jobs, get our deficit under control, and strengthen our middle class, but we cannot do so moving from one crisis to another. This deal is far from perfect, but it provides relief from sequestration for critical education, housing, and transportation programs. It is a step in the right direction to get Congress back on track and focused on what is important to the American people. I thank Senator Patty Murray and Representative Paul Ryan for their hard work and willingness to compromise. This is only the beginning. Far more work remains to be done."
12.5.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement on the passing of Nelson Mandela: “Today, the world lost one of its most cherished leaders. While Nelson Mandela, the man, is now gone, his legacy will endure. He will forever be a source of inspiration for those who struggle against racial oppression and injustice around the world. He was a pioneer for freedom and equality and had the bravery to love his opponents as much as his supporters. “Mandela spent his entire life fighting against the shackles of oppression and after 27 years of imprisonment, he won freedom for his country and set a lasting example that the world will never forget. Mandela’s life shows how one man can truly change the world. May he rest in peace.”
11.23.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement after a short-term deal to halt Iran nuclear ambitions was struck: “The deal announced today is a positive step in the right direction and I applaud the Administration for making progress on this important national security issue. It is vital that we prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon in a peaceful way. “The initial step of the P5 + 1 deal announced today halts the Iranian nuclear program and will roll it back in key respects in exchange for temporary, targeted, and reversible relief. The deal also puts in place an improved inspection, monitoring, and verification regime. This preliminary step should serve as a bridge to a long-term deal. This interim agreement gives us the chance to make significant progress towards the goal we and our allies seek: preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. “While today’s announcement represents serious progress, far more work remains to be done.” ###
11.13.2013	Congressman Smith released the following statement encouraging support for all those affected by the Super Typhoon Haiyan/Yolanda: “I am very saddened by the destruction and the thousands who have lost their lives from the devastating super typhoon in the Philippines. The United States has provided meaningful aid to the region still thousands remain in need of food and care. It's critical that we continue to coordinate with the Philippines and non-government organizations involved with the relief effort to provide assistance as quickly and effectively as possible. Washington’s Ninth District is home to thousands of Filipino Americans who have loved ones afflicted by the typhoon and its aftermath. I will continue to do all that I can to help in recovery efforts. My thoughts and prayers are with all of those affected by this horrible tragedy and their families.” ### For more information on the typhoon visit links below: Super Typhoon Haiyan/Yolanda Factsheet USAID's website See what the Department of Defense is doing to help Super Typhoon Haiyan/Yolanda Map Public Donation Information via USAID: The most effective way people can assist relief efforts is by making cash contributions to humanitarian organizations that are conducting relief operations. A list of humanitarian organizations that are accepting cash donations for disaster responses around the world can be found at www.interaction.org. USAID encourages cash donations because they allow aid professionals to procure the exact items needed (often in the affected region); reduce the burden on scarce resources (such as transportation routes, staff time, and warehouse space); can be transferred very quickly and without transportation costs; support the economy of the disaster-stricken region; and ensure culturally, dietary, and environmentally appropriate assistance. More information can be found at: - The Center for International Disaster Information: www.cidi.org or +1.202.821.1999. - Information on relief activities of the humanitarian community can be found at www.reliefweb.int.
11.7.2013	Congressman Smith released the following statement on the Senate passage of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA): “I am very happy to see the Senate pass EDNA. Currently, it remains legal in 29 states to fire or refuse to hire based on sexual orientation, and 38 states based on gender identity. This is wrong. This legislation does not create special rights, as some claim. ENDA simply adds sexual orientation and gender identity to the current list of federal employment protections that already ban discrimination based on race, religion, gender, national origin, age, and disability. “The American public, several organizations, and many Members of Congress have widely embraced and endorsed ENDA's goal of nondiscrimination. It is now House leadership’s turn to allow a vote on an all-inclusive ENDA that provides equality for all LGBT people. As a cosponsor of ENDA, I’ll continue to work with my colleagues and my constituents in Washington State to push for LGBT equality in the workplace.”
10.18.2013	Congressman Smith released the following statement after former U.S. Speaker and Washington State Congressman Tom Foley passed away: “My thoughts and prayers are with the family of former U.S. Speaker of the House Tom Foley. Tom was a tremendous leader in the Washington State Delegation that will not be forgotten. In his 30 years of service in the House of Representatives and his 5+ years as Speaker, Tom’s kindness, fairness, and honesty allowed him to reach across the aisle and advance policies that benefitted Washington State and the country as a whole. This is a sad day for Washington State. Tom was a wonderful man and he will be deeply missed.” ###
10.16.2013	Congressman Smith released the following statement after voting for legislation that will end the shutdown and avoid default: “I am glad to see that Congress has agreed to legislation that ends the shutdown and keeps our nation from defaulting on our obligations, but this all should have been avoided. Republicans didn’t have the votes, yet still used the threat of a shutdown and default to try and force policies on Democrats that we cannot support. This approach to governance was doomed to fail from the beginning. “Congress now has a few months to work on a larger budget agreement. Until Republicans give up their attempts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act and cut deeply into entitlements while refusing to include revenue increases, we won’t get anywhere. If we are to get on a path towards fiscal certainty, we must do it through the regular budgetary process. I will continue to work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to pass balanced legislation that cuts spending and raises revenues. I can only hope the Republicans have learned that shutting down our government and threatening to default on our nation's obligations to force through their policy agenda is the wrong approach.” ###
10.1.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the first day of the Republican shutdown: “It is critical that Congress pass a bill that allows the United States Government to operate. The consequences of a long-term government shutdown are dramatic and unacceptable. Twice, the Senate has passed a clean funding measure to avoid this shutdown, but House Republican leadership refuses to give House Members an opportunity to vote on it. “The government is not shutting down because of a disagreement on federal spending levels. Legislation agreed to by the Senate includes spending levels that Republicans demanded under sequestration. We are shutting down because House Republicans are refusing to fund the government unless their hyper-partisan policy demands are agreed to. This is akin to Democrats saying we refuse to fund the government unless gun safety measures are passed. Holding the funding of our government hostage to force their partisan agenda is irresponsible and shameful. “The debate we should be having is about our larger spending and budget issues. We have a budget that is out of whack and a deficit that we need to get under control. We need to return to regular order and pass thoughtful long-term appropriations bills that aim to reduce our deficit by raising revenues and cutting spending. But the American public and, in turn, their representatives continue to demand balancing the budget in the short-term while opposing attempts to significantly raise taxes or cut spending. As long as Congress and the American people demand 10 dollars worth of services for every 7 dollars of taxes, we will be unable to work on forward-thinking, fiscally responsible policies. “I am not advocating that we balance the budget in 10 years. The combination of deep spending cuts and higher taxes in the short-term could hurt our recovering economy. We must be mindful of not cutting too much too quickly. We need a combination of spending cuts and tax increases to begin to get the deficit under control. I support rolling back many of the tax cuts passed in the last 12 years because I am determined to raise the revenue necessary to protect critical programs such as Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, education, transportation, and our national defense. With that said, mandatory spending is nearly 60 percent of our budget, and savings must be found in this part of the budget even to achieve the modest goal of deficit reduction. “I hope we can end the gamesmanship in the House, open the government, and pass a long-term budget that raises taxes and finds savings in all parts of spending. Until the American people and members of Congress are honest about the choices we face, we cannot have a serious conversation about reducing the deficit and balancing the budget in the long-term.” ###
9.30.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after his vote House Republicans' refusal to bring up a vote on the Senate funding measure: "For the second time, the Senate plans to consider and vote on funding measures that were passed by the House of Representatives. They have twice rejected the legislation and sent back a clean bill to avoid a government shutdown. House Republican leadership should take the Senate’s lead and bring up the Senate-passed bill and allow the House of Representatives to take a yes or no vote on a clean bill to fund our government. "This is no longer about spending cuts. We have accepted funding levels Republicans demanded. House Republicans are simply more interested in playing politics and making unreasonable partisan demands that have nothing to do with the budget or securing our nation’s economy. This gamesmanship must end to avoid shutting down the government.” ###
9.28.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after his vote opposing the House Republicans' Continuing Resolution: "The House could have avoided a shutdown by passing the Senate's clean bill that would continue to fund the government at levels the Republicans demanded in sequestration, but House Republicans continue to play politics and make unreasonable partisan demands. "A government shutdown has very real consequences — 2 million civilian federal employees would not be paid, Social Security and disability checks could be delayed, and housing loans for low income families could stop. House Republicans seem to be more concerned with forcing their political agenda through Congress than preventing the harm a government shutdown would cause. "House Republicans need to focus on keeping our government operating and increasing our debt limit. Their attempts to hold up these basic functions of government for political reasons is irresponsible and needs to end." ###
9.27.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the Senate passed a Continuing Resolution to fund the government and avoid a shutdown: “With the Senate’s passage of a clean bill that would continue to fund the government, the House Republicans’ refusal to pass this measure would jeopardize our economy. "The funding bill passed by the Senate includes funding at the level House Republicans demanded in sequestration. Now, in their effort to move the goalpost further to the right, they are rejecting this measure due entirely to unnecessary and unreasonable partisan demands that have nothing to do with the budget. "House Republicans must join Democrats to pass a funding bill and raise the debt ceiling to keep our government operating and our economy in recovery. Republican efforts to hold up these basic functions of government are irresponsible and must stop immediately. The consequences are too great.” ###
9.20.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.J. Res. 59, a measure that threatens a government shutdown and does nothing to eliminate sequestration: “We should be focused on removing the damaging cuts of sequestration and addressing the budget in a balanced and responsible way. Sequestration’s indiscriminate cuts continue to threaten national security and military readiness, jobs, and the economy. Unfortunately, rather than using the Continuing Resolution as an opportunity to address sequestration and our budget, House Republicans continued to play politics and used the threat of a government shutdown to push their agenda. “As this bill moves through the legislative process, I hope the Senate can work on a balanced approach that removes sequestration and gives some long-term certainty for our economy. I remain committed to working with my colleagues and constituents to resolve these devastating cuts and find long-term solutions to our fiscal issues.” ###
9.20.2013	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in recognition of the 20th Anniversary of AmeriCorps: “Tomorrow we recognize the 20th Anniversary of AmeriCorps and the 80,000 members that help fight to expand educational and economic opportunities for our nation’s most vulnerable people. “In Washington’s 9th Congressional District AmeriCorps members work in schools across all levels of education, Boys and Girls Clubs, Habitat for Humanity, the American Red Cross, and many more valuable service organizations. They help teach and mentor students, support veterans transitioning into civilian life, and protect our environment by restoring habitats and promoting clean energy. In the process, members get tremendous leadership experience for their future careers. “I look forward to hearing about AmeriCorps future progress and success for the years to come.” ###
9.19.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on H.R. 3102, a bill that would cut the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) by nearly $40 billion: “Today, I opposed drastic cuts to SNAP that would eliminate essential nutrition support for millions of families across our nation. By changing eligibility requirements, the Republican led bill would slash $39 billion in SNAP funding over the next 10 years, resulting in nearly 4 million people losing all or part of their nutrition assistance. This is just wrong. “This summer, I visited the Cherry Street Food Bank, Seattle’s Summer Food Service Program, Marra Farm, and more nutrition services throughout the 9th District. I saw firsthand how thousands of children, seniors, veterans, and families in our state rely on SNAP for meals and nutrition. Cutting close to $4 billion a year from this program would have a devastating impact. “As our economy continues to recover, and unemployment is still high, it is critical that we continue to fight to save SNAP and the essential assistance it provides for millions of Americans. I have cosigned letters and cosponsored legislation that demands adequate funding for SNAP, and will do all I can to ensure that families get the nutrition assistance they need.” ###
9.16.2013	House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. "Buck" McKeon and Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following joint statement about the shootings at the Washington Navy Yard: "We’re saddened by today’s heartbreaking attack at the Washington Navy Yard. Unfortunately, this is not the first time we've seen such a tragedy befall the patriotic personnel working at a U.S. Military installation. There is nothing more cowardly than targeting innocents, and we have full faith in military and law enforcement officials to bring the perpetrators to justice. We send our thoughts and prayers out to the victims and their families." ###
9.11.2013	Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement in remembrance of September 11th: “On the 12th anniversary of September 11th, my thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of those who we lost on that tragic day. We must honor the innocent Americans who perished and all the heroic first responders who put their lives on the line to save others. We will never forget their sacrifice. “September 11th also serves as a reminder of the tremendous work our Armed Forces have done to protect the United States. Each and every day, all over the world, our brave men and women in uniform continue to risk their lives to fight terrorism and threats against our country. We must honor those who have and continue to serve to protect our freedoms and values at home.”
9.11.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement after the President’s speech on Syria: “Last night, the President made it clear that the Assad regime murdered more than 1,400 people, including more than 400 children, with chemical weapons. This was a despicable act and I agree that the world must respond. “I am encouraged to see that the President has postponed a vote to authorize the use of force in Syria to pursue a potential diplomatic solution. While we have not seen specifics of the proposal, which will be put forward by Russia, it could require that Syria’s chemical weapons be put under the control of the international community and destroyed. “The proposal could potentially prevent and deter Assad from using chemical weapons again while avoiding military action. This would be the ideal outcome, but we should not rush to judgment. The proposal is still in its infancy and it must be fully vetted. “This is a difficult situation, and ideally a diplomatic solution is achieved, but I still remain undecided that a military strike is the appropriate course of action should diplomacy fail.” ###
8.29.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the Department of Justice (DOJ) did not challenge state law and updated its federal enforcement policy to not target Washington State voters complying with state law: “I was pleased to see the DOJ’s guidance to U.S. Attorneys on marijuana laws, ensuring that criminal activity remains a priority and residents who are abiding by Washington law will not be targeted. The State’s voters spoke loud and clear last November when they passed I-502, and the DOJ not challenging state marijuana laws is a positive step to respect the will of the voters. “There are still steps that need to be taken to protect individuals and a burgeoning business market. Our state has invested significant resources, including money and hours of state employees’ time, to establish regulatory systems allowing for successful implementation of I-502, and yet businesses looking to invest in this industry and banks seeking new clients cannot do so without fear of prosecution or other penalties from the federal government. Similar concerns weigh on individuals who, while fully complying with state statutes, can still face criminal charges, despite the DOJ’s guidance to not target these individuals. “Since I-502 passed, I have spoken with many federal officials and sent numerous letters urging the DOJ to respect the will of Washington State voters. I have cosponsored bipartisan legislation offered by Representative Dana Rohrabacher that would let state’s marijuana laws preempt federal law, and legally protect all Washington State citizens following state law. I have also supported legislation offered by Rep. Denny Heck of Washington, which would protect banks doing business with the legal Washington State marijuana industry from Federal statutes. I will continue to work with the DOJ to get all necessary assurances for the people of Washington State.” ###
8.28.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in recognition of the 50th Anniversary of the March on Washington: “Thousands gathered in Washington, DC and witnessed history when Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. delivered his "I Have A Dream Speech" during the 1963 civil rights March on Washington. 50 years later, thousands will gather again at the Lincoln Memorial to continue the fight against prejudice, inequality, and discrimination that still plague our country. America has come a long way, but we still face major challenges to equal opportunity, including the recent Supreme Court decision that dismantles the Voting Rights Act and allows states to block African American and Hispanic citizens from the polls with policies like voter ID laws. Additionally, while the unemployment rate is still unacceptably high in our country, it is still higher among people of color. I will continue to fight in Congress for jobs and equal opportunity. Let us honor Dr. King and the March on Washington by recommitting ourselves to equality for all.” ###
8.28.2013	After visiting the Jordan-Syria Border, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement on the situation in Syria: “It now appears that the Syrian regime has used chemical weapons to kill hundreds of Syrian civilians and the world must respond. The overall stability of the Middle East region and the security of our allies – including Turkey, Jordan, and Israel – are of critical importance to the security of the United States. Preventing al Qaeda from establishing a secure base of operations in Syria is vitally important to protecting the United States from terrorist attacks. “In response, we should expand and accelerate our support for moderate elements of the opposition forces with both military and non-military aid. I also support efforts to help our regional allies cope with the wide range of spillover effects from the Syrian civil war. To be clear, I am not calling for an open-ended commitment to remove the Assad regime, but that does not mean we cannot act in a way that is consistent with our interests and values. “We should be under no illusion that such aid will significantly influence the outcome of the struggle against Assad. But the Free Syrian Army exists and we must be better positioned to combat extremism. They can help us in the future, but only if we help them first. “Al Qaeda's presence in Syria is extremely disturbing - a similar presence in Yemen eventually led to attempted attacks on the United States. We must have allies in Syria who can help us prevent a similar occurrence there. Even if the Geneva 2 process succeeds, the collapse of the regime would result in a lengthy period of instability when we would need allies." “I am still waiting to see what specifically the Administration and other involved partners have to say about a potential military strike, but I am concerned about how effective such an action could be and, above all else, I am worried that such action could drag the United States into a broader direct involvement in the conflict. “Military action could have significant consequences and there is no guarantee that it would improve the situation or promote a positive outcome. Any potential use of military force will have long-term costs and will put our troops in harm’s way. Simply lashing out with military force under the banner of “doing something” will not secure our interests in Syria.” ###
8.9.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in recognition of the 25th Anniversary of the Civil Liberties Act this Saturday: “Japanese Internment during World War II is one of the darkest stains on American History. Over 120,000 Japanese Americans were forced out of their homes and communities and placed into internment camps purely based on racial prejudice. The Civil Liberties Act, signed into law by President Ronald Reagan 25 years ago, paid necessary reparations to surviving Japanese and Japanese Americans who were unjustly interned during World War II. Many of the Japanese and Japanese Americans interned lost their property, jobs, and their status and reputation in society. Although long overdue, the Civil Liberties Act acknowledged and apologized for the discriminatory internment of U.S. citizens, provided funds to educate the population in hopes to prevent such prejudice from happening again, and paid surviving Japanese and Japanese Americans for injustices and any personal or community property that was taken or destroyed during the War. “Because many Japanese and Japanese Americans were interned in Washington State, the Japanese internment plays an important role in the history of the region. Through museums such as the Wing Luke Museum of the Asian American Experience, and the many Japanese Americans closely tied to this dark period of our shared history, the people of Washington’s 9th District are both educated and active in sharing the important lessons of Japanese internment. I am honored to join my constituents and my colleagues in celebrating the 25th Anniversary on the Civil Liberties Act being signed into law.” ###
8.8.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement about Russia’s anti-LGBT laws and their potential impact on the Olympics: “Russia’s policies to arrest and intimidate LGBT people are appalling. Recent laws have allowed the Russian government to arrest anyone who is openly gay or anyone who openly supports the equal treatment of LGBT people. With the 2014 Winter Olympics set to take place in Sochi, Russia in the coming months, I am deeply concerned about the safety and freedom of our athletes and visitors as they attend the games. If President Putin cannot assure that LGBT athletes and supporters will be free to express themselves without fear of being jailed, then the U.S. needs to consider the implications of participating in the games. With that said, after speaking with constituents and leaders on this issue, I am confident that we can adequately protect our athletes, and by participating and protesting the oppressive anti-LGBT laws in the spotlight of the Olympics, we can bring greater exposure to the discrimination and persecution of LGBT people in Russia and around the world. As this issue evolves, I will work with my colleagues to pressure Russia to ensure our athletes and visitors will be protected.” ###
7.29.2013	Congressman Smith made the following statement on the Bangladesh Government's interference in the affairs of Grameen Bank: "By providing microfinance programs that offer small loans at extremely low interest rates, Grameen Bank has given millions of women in Bangladesh and across the globe entrepreneurial opportunities to rise out of poverty. The bank's proven effectiveness and success should be a model for other organizations working to eliminate poverty. Despite the fact they are a minority owner, the Government of Bangladesh has been interfering in the operations of Grameen Bank by forcing the resignation of founder and Nobel Prize winner Professor Yunus, undercutting the authority of the bank's majority owners—the women borrowers, and appointing an outside commission expected to make further changes. These changes could thwart Grameen Bank's tremendous progress in uplifting women in Bangladesh and the good work it does around the world. I urge my colleagues in Congress and the State Department to make clear that America supports Grameen Bank's goals of empowering women and their desire to operate independently." ###
7.24.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement about the NSA Amendments in the Defense Appropriations bill: “The federal government should never be allowed to access the content of phone calls or internet communications by any U.S. person unless they have a warrant, and I will do all I can to prevent that from happening. That is why I supported Representative Nugent’s amendment which prohibits the use of funds by the NSA to target the phone calls, emails, and other communications of a U.S. person. Under this amendment and current law, the NSA cannot see the phone calls Americans are making or track their communications without a court warrant. “I also believe that it is critical that our intelligence community has resources that can minimize the risk of an attack on the U.S. The Intelligence reauthorizing bill is the best place to address these issues to ensure we have both the right tools and the right protections for civil liberties. Considering this subject on an appropriations bill prevents us from considering how best to amend the law to ensure we achieve both goals. That is why I opposed the Amash amendment. As legislation advances, I will continue to look for ways to improve policies that strike a balance between safeguarding individual rights and liberties, and protecting our nation from threats and terrorism.” ###
7.19.2013	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after opposing, H.R. 5, the Republican bill to reauthorize to Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA): “Today, House Republicans lost sight of investing in the future of our children by passing an education bill that cuts funding by over $1 billion, eliminates provisions that ensure protections for disadvantaged students, and fails to develop and support our teachers. “Now is the time to invest in areas like education that will grow and develop our future economy, not restrict and eliminate programs that protect our most disadvantaged students. We need to fund programs that create a more equitable education system for English Language Learners, at-risk youth, rural students, Native students, and students with disabilities. We need to provide our children with adequate resources and a prosperous learning environment to advance their education. True reform will establish realistic goals and adequate performance criteria that stakeholders can agree upon to hold schools accountable for providing every student with a quality education. Teachers must be equipped with the support and professional development necessary to meet the needs of increasingly diverse classrooms. Standards should be high, but also attainable and enforceable to ensure our kids are ready to compete in the global economy. “Unfortunately, H.R. 5 does none of this. It eliminates standards that keep students on a path to graduate and become college and career-ready. It cuts education funding across the board by over $1 billion below 2012 levels and creates block grants that allow funds to be shifted away from English Language Learners, migrant students, native students, or at risk-students. Under the bill, after school programs lose funding and social and emotional support programs are eliminated. The legislation also removes requirements for professional development for teachers and shifts funding support away from teachers in the most at-risk communities. “We are nearly four years late in reauthorizing our education programs and addressing the negative impact of No Child Left Behind on our schools’ ability to succeed. However, this legislation does nothing to improve upon existing laws. Our students deserve better. I supported an amendment offered by Representative George Miller that included critical investments in education, created realistic goals and standards, and protected programs that help ensure all students can achieve and succeed.” ###
7.1.2013	Congressman Smith released the following statement after interest rates on federally backed Stafford student loans doubled today from 3.4 to 6.8 percent: “Providing our youth with access to higher education is a necessary investment in the future health and prosperity of our country. Federally backed student loans offer essential support and provide opportunities for hard-working families and talented students who are struggling to pay for college. At a time when private loan interest rates are increasing and college tuition is skyrocketing, we need to be looking for ways to make college more affordable. Unfortunately, due to inaction in Congress, federally backed Stafford student loan interest rates doubled today from 3.4 to 6.8 percent. “The doubling of the interest rate is estimated to cost an additional $2,600 for each student who takes on these loans. It cannot be our policy to seek a balanced budget by increasing the burden of debt for aspiring college graduates, especially when this year alone the Department of Education expects to take in a profit of $51 billion from interest on student loans. We need to do better for our students. I cosponsored legislation offered by Representative Courtney that would extend the 3.4 percent interest rates for another two years. This would give relief to students, while allowing Congress to focus on reauthorizing the Higher Education Act and pass a long-term financing plan for student loans that families and students can rely on.” ###
6.28.2013	House Armed Service Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement after the House passed legislation improving protections of whistleblowers reporting sexual assault crimes: “I am pleased to see the House take action to pass legislation that addresses the issue of sexual assault in the military. It is critical that we do all we can to protect those who protect our nation. As demonstrated by the recent incidents of sexual assault, we are not doing enough. The defense bill that passed the House improved how sexual assaults are prosecuted, and the legislation passed yesterday, which reaffirmed the same language as NDAA, shows our commitment to protecting whistleblowers reporting sexual assaults in the military. There is still more that needs to be done and I will continue to work with my colleagues to improve how we handle sexual assault in our Armed Services.” ###
6.27.2013	Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement after the passage of comprehensive immigration reform in the Senate: It is time to address our immigration system in a comprehensive way, and the Senate passage of their immigration reform bill is a huge step forward. The legislation represents a bipartisan commitment to attract skilled workers, innovative minds, and dedicated individuals that will help create jobs, grow the American economy, and enrich the country with new perspectives and cultural diversity. As the debate over immigration reform moves forward to the House of Representatives, we must also look to improve our immigration system so that it creates a pathway to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented immigrants and keeps families together, while protecting our national priorities. I will continue to work with organizations and communities in my district to ensure that we fix our broken immigration system in a way that builds our economy and reflects our national values. ###
6.26.2013	The Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) invalidated Section Four of the Voting Rights Act, a key provision that protects voting rights in nine states that historically have had discriminatory voting practices. The decision found that Section Four of the law had an outdated formula that placed undue federal burden on the nine states. Congressman Smith released the following statement after the decision: “I am very disappointed in the Supreme Court’s ruling on the Voting Rights Act. In the last election, low income voters and people of color, mainly Hispanic and African Americans, waited in line nearly twice as long as white voters. It is clear that we must do more, not less, to protect the rights of all people and ensure we have equal access to the polls. The Voting Rights Act has played a critical role in protecting individuals’ right to vote regardless of race, ethnic background, or level of income. By striking Section Four, the Supreme Court limited the federal government’s ability to implement Section Five, consequently rendering this section of the Voting Rights Act powerless and threatening the right to vote for many Americans. Any state can now implement Voter ID laws and redraw district lines to dilute the voices of large populations of mainly racial and ethnic minorities without federal oversight. “President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act to fix the disenfranchisement of targeted voters - mainly African Americans. Decades since, the Voting Rights Act has been reauthorized and supported by Presidents and Members of Congress of both parties. To ensure a thriving democracy, Congress must come together again to create a new formula that will ensure all Americans have their voices heard at the ballot box. I remain committed to doing all I can to ensure that no voter experiences discrimination.” Even with the striking down of Section Four, Congress can still impose a new formula to determine which states’ voting practices still need federal oversight. Congressman Smith had previously signed an Amicus brief in support of Section Five of the Voting Rights Act and is a cosponsor of the Voter Empowerment Act. ###
6.26.2013	Today, the Supreme Court ruled on two cases dealing with same-sex marriage. In the case of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), the Court ruled the law unconstitutional, citing the Fifth Amendment, and enabling the federal government to recognize same-sex marriage. The Court also decided that those trying to reinstate Proposition 8 had no standing, effectively restoring marriage equality in California. Congressman Smith released the following statement after the decisions: “The Supreme Court’s rulings on marriage equality today are a huge step forward for our country. By striking down DOMA, the Supreme Court has ruled in favor of the Constitutional right to equality for all Americans regardless of who they love. Married same-sex couples will finally be recognized by the federal government and receive benefits previously denied such as Social Security survivor benefits, shared health insurance, and tax benefits for married couples. Additionally, the Supreme Court ruled to return the right for same-sex couples to marry in California by allowing the lower courts to repeal Proposition 8. “Even with these rulings, significant work remains to ensure equal rights to the LGBT community. Same-sex couples living in states that don’t recognize all marriages still face uncertainty and discrimination. LGBT people can still be denied work simply based on who they are. Bullying in our schools is still a dangerous epidemic among youth who are or are perceived to be LGBT, and homelessness and poverty rates are still unacceptably high among LGBT people. The Supreme Court’s decisions exhibit the tremendous progress we have made towards full equality, but we must remain committed to doing all we can to make sure equal opportunity and justice are realities for all Americans.” Congressman Adam Smith has been a committed supporter in the fight for marriage equality and LGBT equal rights. In February, he introduced the Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act, that would ensure that same-sex spouses received equal benefits in our Armed Services. He also has cosponsored the Respect for Marriage Act, which would have repealed DOMA, and signed an amicus brief to the Supreme Court in support of same-sex marriage. ###
6.25.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), made the following statement following the Army’s announcement on force structure changes: “I am disappointed with today’s announcement that the Army will deactivate the 4th Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 2nd Infantry division at Joint Base Lewis-McChord (JBLM), resulting in a reduction of approximately 4,500 soldiers. While this is a major loss to the Puget Sound community, JBLM’s 26,500 soldiers will continue to play an important role in the Pacific Northwest and, in combination with the Air Force capabilities at McChord, will remain an important installation that allows the Army to project power to the Pacific. “These reductions are part of a larger plan to cut 80,000 troops nationwide by 2017 that is largely a consequence of the Budget Control Act (BCA) of 2011, which mandated major cuts to the Department of Defense (DoD) budget. The BCA became law when the Republican majority refused to lift the debt ceiling without legislation that forced $900 billion in immediate cuts to discretionary programs, including $487 billion to defense programs. I voted against this legislation due to my concerns about these indiscriminate cuts and their effects on DoD as well as transportation, education, Medicare, and aid to the poor. “Since that time, Congress has made it very difficult for the Department to implement these cuts. For example, the Department of Defense attempted to save money by retiring a number of ships it does not need, by requesting authority for a BRAC, which would allow the military to save money by consolidating and reorganizing its infrastructure, and by making changes to its health care systems. Congress blocked each and every one of these attempts and has now forced the military to make very difficult choices. “Given the drawdown in Afghanistan, the Army can manage this reduction in troops, but the real hazard to military effectiveness will persist as long as Congress fails to act on sequestration. If sequestration is not removed, then more extensive force structure changes will need to be made to accommodate the severity of the sequester cuts. Earlier this year, I put forward a reasonable solution to sequestration. Unfortunately, Republican leadership in the House has not put my plan to a vote and now Congressional paralysis has placed our military in a very difficult position. It’s time that Congress and the President come together to prevent an additional $1.2 trillion in cuts through sequestration.” ###
6.20.2013	Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement regarding his vote against the farm bill, which would have cut Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits by $20.5 billion: “I was pleased to see that the Farm Bill did not pass the House of Representatives. I supported parts of the Farm Bill, but the cuts to SNAP were simply unacceptable. This bill would have changed eligibility requirements for SNAP that would result in reduced benefits for recipients in Washington State and nationwide. In total, the legislation would have cut $20.5 billion from SNAP over the next 10 years, which would have forced 2 million people nationwide off SNAP and reduce benefits for millions more. “These cuts are just wrong. For one-fifth of our children suffering from food insecurity, many of our veterans transitioning to civilian jobs, and families recovering from our economic downturn, SNAP provides essential support. For this reason, as our economy continues to recover, it is critical that we maintain SNAP assistance. There was an amendment to the Farm Bill offered by Representative Jim McGovern (D-MA) that would have restored the $20.5 billion in cuts by eliminating unnecessary subsidies. I cosponsored this amendment and supported it on the floor, but unfortunately it failed to be included in the final bill due to overwhelming Republican opposition. I will continue to fight to protect families in need of nutrition assistance.” ###
6.19.2013	At the urging of U.S. Representatives Adam Smith, Denny Heck and Derek Kilmer, the U.S. Army has approved funds to construct a National Guard Readiness Center to replace the old Tacoma Armory. The three Members of Congress wrote a letter to the Secretary of the Army earlier this year highlighting the need for a replacement. Funding for the new Tacoma Readiness Center will come by reprogramming dollars from existing Army construction projects that came in under budget. "This is fantastic news not only for the Washington Guard, but for the entire state of Washington," said Major General Bret Daugherty, Washington's adjutant general. "A new readiness center ensures state of the art training for our citizen soldiers and helps us maintain the highest level of readiness possible to protect our communities during emergency situations. I commend the work of our Congressional delegation - and appreciate the tireless effort of the National Guard Bureau to help secure this funding." “This is very welcomed news as it is past time that the Tacoma Armory be replaced. Several members of the delegation have raised the pressing need to replace this aging facility, and I'm pleased to see the Army finally agree. The new readiness center will provide the Washington Guard with a new and safe facility to help them train and prepare for missions,” Congressman Adam Smith said. “Replacing the Tacoma Armory is necessary to make sure the Washington Guard continues excelling at its mission. This is a smart, efficient use of existing federal dollars to support our local citizen soldiers and airmen,” Congressman Denny Heck said. “A safe, modern training facility for the Washington National Guard is great news for our citizen soldiers, the Washington Guard’s mission, and our entire community,” Congressman Derek Kilmer said. The old Tacoma Armory, built in 1902, was damaged beyond repair by severe weather and flooding in 2012. The site of the new Tacoma Readiness Center is still being determined. ###
6.18.2013	Seven members of the Washington State Congressional Delegation sent a letter urging the Department of Justice (DOJ) to respect the will of Washington State voters as it pertains to marijuana. In the letter, led by Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA-09), Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Patty Murray (D-WA), and Representatives Suzan DelBene (D-WA-01), Denny Heck (D-WA-10), Derek Kilmer (D-WA-06), and Jim McDermott (D-WA-07) asked that DOJ provide clarity and certainty for their constituents and work with state regulators to protect the rights of those obeying state law. “As DOJ considers its response to Washington and Colorado laws, we hope that you will exercise your significant discretionary authority by choosing not to pursue preemption of these laws, or prosecute our residents and state employees acting in compliance with these laws,” the Members wrote. “We also urge DOJ to announce its decided course of action as soon as possible to provide legal certainty for our citizens, businesses, and lawmakers.” Seven months after Washington State voters approved Initiative 502, which legalized marijuana in small quantities and established a regulated licensing system for its sale, DOJ has still not announced a course of action, leaving Washington State residents, businesses, and investors in a state of uncertainty. This letter urges DOJ to respect state law and to provide clarity for Washington State. Full text of the letter here. ###
6.12.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member, Congressman Adam Smith, Republican Congressman Chris Gibson, and Senator Mark Udall, who serves on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and the Senate Armed Services Committee, introduced legislation to ensure that any individual detained on U.S. soil under the Authorization of Military Force (AUMF) has access to due process. The bills would repeal the provision in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2012 that requires mandatory military custody of any individual captured on U.S. soil and suspected of terrorism. Their bills aim to prevent the erosion of our civil liberties as guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution while strengthening our national security. “As we confront threats from violent extremist groups around the world, it is vitally important that the President and our military have the tools and resources they needs to ensure national security. In doing so, we must also ensure that we do not undermine the civil liberties that we cherish so deeply in this country,” said House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Congressman Adam Smith. “Current law provides the President with the authority to indefinitely detain individuals apprehended in the United States – including citizens of the United States – without due process and with little independent review or oversight. While the President said he will not utilize this authority, future administrations might and it is a frightening amount of power to leave on the books and it is counter to the rights enshrined in the United States Constitution. We have an opportunity, through this year’s National Defense Authorization Act, to protect constitutional rights and roll back this authority.” “This proposal upholds the due process protections granted under the Constitution and preserves the rights of Americans by guaranteeing that anyone arrested in the U.S. receive a charge and fair trial. This legislation strengthens our national security while protecting the civil liberties that are the core of our cherished way of life,” said Gibson. “Even as we work to strengthen our national security and use every tool available to keep Americans safe, we must never lose sight of our constitution. This legislation will ensure that Americans are not indefinitely detained by the military and that our nation does not undermine our most powerful weapon against those who mean us harm: our constitutional liberties,” Udall said. “President Obama has pledged not to do so, but this is only binding on his administration, but that won’t tie the hands of future administrations. The indefinite detention laws on the books now threaten to undo much of the progress the FBI and law enforcement have made to stop terrorists plotting in the United States and overseas, and it seems to make it more difficult to gather intelligence on stop domestic terror threats. The last thing we should be doing is preventing local, state and federal authorities from investigating and acting on threats to our safety.” Udall’s bill, the Due Process and Military Detention Amendments Act, and the Smith-Gibson companion bill in the House prohibit military commissions and indefinite detention for individuals in the United States and affirm that any trial proceedings have all the due process as provided for under the Constitution. In addition, Udall hopes the bill will support the success of civilian law enforcement and federal courts in locking up suspected terrorists. More than 400 defendants charged with crimes related to international terrorism have been successfully convicted in the United States since Sept. 11, 2001, and more than 300 individuals are currently incarcerated in federal prisons within the United States. Udall and Smith have led the push to undo the military-detention provisions enacted through the 2012 National Defense Authorization Act. The duo introduced similar legislation the previous session of Congress and wrote an op-ed for CNN Opinion about why the law undermines the U.S. Constitution. ###
6.10.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), made the following statement to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the Equal Pay Act: “With women making up a growing share of the workforce and contributing to their family’s income at nearly the same level as men, pay inequality is unfair and hurts families and our economy. The Equal Pay Act has helped reduce wage discrimination between men and women. While we celebrate the progress we’ve made in strengthening labor laws and establishing anti-discrimination policies to protect women in the workforce, we should also realize that the pay gap that exists between men and women is still unacceptable. The Equal Pay Act should be updated and strengthened, and Congress must be able to continue its work to end wage discrimination” “Representative Rosa DeLauro introduced the Paycheck Fairness Act in January. This legislation would strengthen and enhance the Equal Pay Act by requiring employers provide a legal justification for paying a man more than a woman for the same job. The legislation would also allow employees to discuss salary information with co-workers and make it easier for women to file class-action lawsuits against employers they accuse of sex-based pay discrimination. I am an original cosponsor of this legislation and earlier this year signed a discharge petition to encourage House leadership to bring it to the floor for a vote. “When women are paid equally for equal work, we all benefit. On the 50th Anniversary of the Equal Pay Act, I encourage all of my colleagues in Congress to support passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act.“ ###
6.6.2013	Today, Congressman Smith voted against the Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which included an amendment offered by Steve King (R-IA) that would prevent Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) funds from going to the continued implementation of the Obama Administration’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) that protects DREAMers from deportation: “I was extremely disappointed that Republicans passed an amendment today that targets hundreds of thousands of DREAMers who, through no fault of their own, were brought to this country as young children. These children have lived in the United States for years as law-abiding individuals, however the amendment adopted by House Republicans today, draws no distinction between DREAMers and criminals posing security risks to our communities. We need an enforcement policy that focuses our limited resources on enhancing public safety by targeting serious criminals, not DREAMers.” In June 2012, Secretary Napolitano sent a memo to ICE prioritizing prosecutorial discretion so ICE could focus their resources on going after dangerous criminals rather than deporting law-abiding DREAMers. This amendment would prohibit appropriated funds from finalizing, implementing, or enforcing this policy guidance. By refusing to fund this policy guidance, House Republicans have placed a target on the backs of 800,000 DREAMers. ###
6.5.2013	Just days after Congressman Adam Smith reintroduced the Rural Economic Vitalization Act (REVA), the legislation has received broad support from several organizations and has been cosponsored by 8 members of Congress. Below are statements of support for REVA. Mike Hudak, Leader, Sierra Club Grazing Team "Wolves and Sage-grouse have a friend in Congressman Smith for his introduction of the Rural Economic Vitalization Act. Their lives would greatly benefit from its enactment." Great Old Broads for Wilderness “Public lands grazing often is in conflict with other uses and values of our public lands. The Rural Economic Vitalization Act (REVA) is a common sense bill that provides a simple win-win-win solution for ranchers, the American taxpayers, and the environment. Especially in these fiscally challenging times, any federal action that can painlessly save dollars deserves Congresses support.” Representative Raul Grijalva "Grazing is an important use of our public lands, but it's a very impactful use. Excessive grazing impacts wildlife habitat, soil composition, local hydrology, and even heightens the impacts of climate change. Retiring some permits will help save taxpayer money and benefit federal conservation efforts. Right now, when we are looking for ways to save taxpayer money, REVA is a win-win. Ranchers that want to retire their permits should have that opportunity." Wolf Conservation Center “The Wolf Conservation Center extends enormous thanks to Rep Adam Smith for reintroducing the Rural Economic Vitalization Act (REVA) - a bill that benefits the livestock community, environmentalists, and taxpayers. Thanks to Rep. Smith, we have hope that REVA will make our efforts to ensure our public lands are safe for our wildlife, a reality.” National Wolfwatcher Coalition "On behalf of our 300,000+ supporters, we extend our thanks to Rep. Smith for reintroducing the Rural Environmental Vitalization Act. This legislation opens up a new opportunity for all stakeholders to come together and utilize an innovative, free-market tool to resolve natural resource conflicts. This is a win-win-win for ranchers, the environment, and taxpayers. Let’s pass this bill so that we can finally take some common sense steps to ensure healthy public lands." George Nickas, Executive Director of Wilderness Watch "Many thanks to Congressman Smith for introducing this forward-looking legislation. It is one of the more important, positive pieces of public lands legislation introduced in many years. Even some of our nation's designated Wildernesses are suffering serious harm due to inappropriate livestock grazing. This bill offers the best opportunity we currently have to address this problem. We look forward to working with Congressman Smith and his staff toward its passage." Andy Stahl, Executive Director of Forest Service Employees for Environmental Ethics (FSEEE) “This bill is a practical, cost-effective response to persistent environmental and economic problems on our nation’s rangelands. Congressman Smith’s pragmatic leadership and commitment to resolving these issues is very welcome.” The Cloud Foundation “Allowing ranchers to voluntarily relinquish grazing permits opens the possibility for rangeland restoration which represents progress toward more environmentally and economically sound management of the Public Lands. Further, we fully support honest and balanced science-based decisions regarding the allocation of resources between the remaining stakeholder groups, but particularly to wild horses and other wildlife which are native to this land. By opening these lands to broader based interests, small rural western communities stand to benefit from an enhanced economic picture, and taxpayers benefit from reduced tax burdens and restored public lands.” The Wildlife Society. Arizona Chapter “The Arizona Chapter of The Wildlife Society endorses H.R. 2201, the Rural Economic Vitalization Act to allow ranchers with grazing permits to voluntarily relinquish and retire their grazing permits. Our Chapter is a proponent of sound management practices on public land and realizes that ongoing drought and economics of ranching are having a deleterious effect on range conditions, wildlife populations, and American taxpayers. By using the buyout option, impacts from overgrazing on our public lands can be resolved and these improved range conditions will allow our wildlife populations to increase and become more viable due to increased forage and availability of hiding cover. This change in policy will be a welcome transformation of public land management for both consumptive and non-consumptive users of wildlife on public lands.” Facebook Page There was a Facebook page made in support of REVA. On May 23, 2013, Congressman Adam Smith reintroduced the Rural Economic Vitalization Act, a bill that would address the wasteful, environmentally damaging, and economically inefficient federal grazing policy on our public lands.. By allowing ranchers with grazing permits to voluntarily relinquish their permits, this legislation saves the American taxpayer money, gives public lands the chance to rebuild their natural habitats, and provides ranchers with more financial opportunities. ###
6.5.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member, Congressman Adam Smith, made the following statement in response to Ambassador Rice’s appointment as National Security Adviser: “Susan Rice has the right combination of strategic vision and credentials to serve as a National Security Adviser. She is the clear choice to replace Tom Donilon. Ambassador Rice is a seasoned and skillful diplomat with a deep understanding of the national security challenges we face. Having served in senior positions at the United Nations, the State Department and the National Security Council, and as a member of the President’s Cabinet, Rice brings more than two decades of national security and foreign policy experience. “From Iran and North Korea, to our challenges in the Middle East and across northern and western Africa, our country faces a wide of range national security challenges. Confronting those challenges requires strong leadership and experience. In the months and years ahead, Susan’s voice and strong record on these issues will be vital as we continue to confront security challenges around the world. “It goes without saying that Tom Donilon has served with distinction, and he has been a tremendous asset to the President’s national security team. I wish him the very best in his future endeavors.” ###
6.3.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), made the following statement today in celebration of LGBT Pride Month, which is celebrated during the month of June: “This year, we commemorate LGBT Pride Month at a critical time when lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender Americans have made incredible progress in the fight for marriage equality, protection of bullied teens, serving in the Armed Forces openly and honestly, and the prosecution of bias-based crimes. This June we should celebrate this progress and how the LGBT community adds to the rich diversity of our country, but we should also recognize that there is a lot of work that remains to be done to ensure that all LGBT Americans are equal under the law. Millions of LGBT people can still be denied work simply based on who they are and the federal government still cannot recognize marriages for same-sex couples. No one should be denied equal rights because of who they love, and I will continue to do all I can in Congress to make sure this equality becomes a reality.” ###
5.29.2013	Congressman Adam Smith has reintroduced legislation that would address the wasteful, environmentally damaging, and economically inefficient federal grazing policy on our public lands. H.R. 2201, the Rural Economic Vitalization Act, would change federal law to allow ranchers with grazing permits to voluntarily relinquish their permits to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the U.S. Forest Service in exchange for private market compensation. It would further allow the BLM and U.S. Forest Service to permanently retire the grazing permit. “The current federal grazing program is among the most economically inefficient uses of our public lands,” said Congressman Smith. “This legislation opens the door for private solutions to a long-standing problem that costs taxpayers millions and has prevented public land ranchers from efficiently utilizing resources available to them.” Current law does not allow for the retirement of grazing permits. This not only is to the detriment of wildlife, watersheds, and the surrounding ecosystem, which continue to be harmed by domestic livestock grazing, but also to federal taxpayer dollars wastefully spent to continue an antiquated grazing policy on public lands. “Grazing is an important use of our public lands, but it's a very impactful use", said Rep. Raul Grijalva, who joined Congressman Smith in introducing the legislation. "Excessive grazing impacts wildlife habitat, soil composition, local hydrology, and even heightens the impacts of climate change. Retiring some permits will help save taxpayer money and benefit federal conservation efforts. Right now, when we are looking for ways to save taxpayer money, REVA is a win-win. Ranchers that want to retire their permits should have that opportunity." “Many permit holders would choose to retire their grazing permit if they could recoup their investment from private funds,” Smith said. “By providing federal grazing permit holders the freedom to exchange permits for market value compensation, this legislation would spur private investment, provide ranchers with the opportunity to pursue new business ventures or retire with more security, and protect public lands from the damaging environmental effects of livestock grazing.” In addition to the environmental damage, the federal grazing program is heavily subsidized and costs American taxpayers over $115 million a year. The Government Accountability Office reported that the BLM and Forest Service spend over $132 million a year on managing the grazing lands, yet they only collect $17 million a year in fees. “At a time when the federal government is looking for ways to cut outdated programs and become more efficient, this bill eliminates wasteful spending and saves taxpayer dollars,” continued Smith. “This legislation is a win for all involved. The American taxpayer saves money, ranchers have a choice to retire their permits for market compensation, and public lands are given the opportunity to rebuild their natural habitats, native plants, and wildlife.” For more information, view the Rural Economic Vitalization Act fact sheet.
5.27.2013	Congressman Smith released the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day: “On Memorial Day, we honor the men, women, and families of the United States military who every day protect our nation. Whether it be emergency relief, security efforts, or development operations across the world, our servicemembers are always courageous, professional, and committed to represent this country in the best way possible. Memorial Day offers us the opportunity to honor the memory of those who have fallen and extend our thanks to all members of our Armed Services who help keep our country free and prosperous. “It is absolutely critical that the government and the Congress remain committed to members of the Armed Forces while they serve and when they come home. We need to make sure returning veterans are given the opportunities and guidance to translate their skills to civilian jobs and businesses. We also need to continue to work to reduce the thousands of backlogged VA claims and ensure that every veteran receives the support and care they need and were promised. “As we honor and thank the men and women of our Armed Forces, both past and present, let us show our gratitude by continuing to work to make sure all active duty military and veterans receive the support and services that they deserve.” ###
5.23.2013	Congress must take action soon to stop Stafford student loan interest rates from doubling on July 1st. However, the legislation passed by the House of Representatives today is projected to more than double the current 3.4 percent interest rates. The Republican bill would link federal student loan interest rates to the variable rate changes of a 10 year Treasury note, a baseline for general interest rates, which the Congressional Budget Office projects will increase and in effect raise student interest rates to 7.4% by 2017. Congressman Smith released the following statement after he opposed this legislation: “It is critical for the fiscal health of our country to reduce the deficit, but we cannot do so at the expense of aspiring college graduates,” Smith said. “College is already too expensive with high interest private loans and the ever increasing cost of tuition. Congress should be helping hard-working families and students afford a college education, not making it more difficult by potentially doubling student interest rates with this type of legislation." There was an amendment offered by Representative Courtney that would have extended the 3.4 percent student interest rates for another 2 years. Congressman Smith supported this amendment, but it was not considered on the House floor. ###
5.22.2013	The Air Force is expected to announce later today that Fairchild Air Force Base (AFB) in Washington State was not selected as the preferred site for the first Main Operating Base for the KC-46A aerial refueling tanker. House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement regarding the expected announcement: “I respect and appreciate how the Air Force has conducted this process, but it is disappointing that Fairchild Air Force Base was not chosen as the Air Force’s preferred host for KC-46A,” Smith said. “I still believe that Fairchild’s capacity and accommodations for the tanker, strategic location, tremendous community support, and proven track record of serving our nation’s aerial refueling effort with the KC-135 make the base an ideal home for the next generation of tankers. The Washington Congressional delegation has and will continue to work together to promote Fairchild’s capacity to host future tankers.” On three occasions throughout the basing decision process, Congressman Smith signed a letter with local Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers, and the rest of the Washington State Congressional Delegation to Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley, encouraging the Air Force to base KC-46A at Fairchild. The letters detailed Fairchild’s capacity to accommodate the tanker and its success with previous aerial refueling efforts. The Air Force conducted site surveys of 54 candidate installations before the announcement of the preferred basing decision today. Out of the 54 bases that were surveyed through this process, Fairchild will be named one of only two reasonable alternatives. McConnell AFB will be selected as the preferred first Main Operating Base. The Air Force must now conduct the necessary environmental analysis before making a final basing decision in Spring 2014. ###
5.15.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), made the following statement regarding allegations against a service member who was as a sexual assault prevention and response coordinator at Fort Hood: “If true, the latest sexual assault allegation released by the Army is deeply disturbing and extremely troubling. How can our military be so effective at protecting our nation, yet so ineffective at protecting those who serve? This is the second service member recently accused of sexual assault whose job in the military, in part, is to be one of the leaders charged with stopping such assaults in the military. Clearly, there is a serious issue with how individuals for this position are selected. “This latest incident clearly demonstrates that the military's efforts to prevent sexual assault are failing miserably. It's outrageous and I will not stand for it. There is no excuse for this sort of behavior and the atmosphere that permits it. As we mark up this year’s NDAA, preventing sexual assault will be a top priority. The military has made it clear that it cannot handle this problem alone and it is time for decisive action by Congress."
5.5.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in recognition of Cinco de Mayo: "Today, families across our country celebrate Cinco de Mayo, a day when a Mexican militia defeated a larger French military at the Battle of Puebla. Cinco de Mayo remains an inspirational part of history for Mexican and American families. It further commemorates the tremendous achievements, contributions, and culture of Mexican Americans and Hispanic Americans that of which have strengthened our nation as a whole. In recognition of Cinco de Mayo, let us continue to build and enhance our relationship with Mexico, and remember the key role Mexican Americans have played in American history.”
5.5.2013	Congressman Smith released the following statement after the airmen of the U.S. Air Force KC-135 that crashed in Kyrgyzstan were identified as being from Fairchild Air Force Base: "My thoughts and prayers go out to the families and loved ones of the Airmen who died in this tragic accident in Kyrgyzstan. Details about the crash are still unclear. Our servicemen and women risk their lives for our nation while training at home and serving abroad. The service and sacrifice of those who lost their lives in this accident will not be forgotten.”
4.30.2013	Today, Boeing announced that they will be extending their Pension Value Plan and BSS Retirement Plan to same-sex spouses and domestic partners as beneficiaries for pension survivor benefits. The expansion of pension beneficiaries are a continuation of Boeing’s long history of leadership in respecting the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender workers. “I commend Boeing for providing equal pension survivor benefits for same-sex spouses and domestic partners,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “LGBT workers are a critical part of a skilled labor force and equal treatment of their employees has led to Boeing’s success and global leadership in aerospace, science, and technology. It is unacceptable to deny any person equal pay or benefits because of who they love. I will continue to work to make sure that all LGBT people and their families are treated fairly and have equal access to success.” Congressman Smith has been an advocate for LGBT equality. During the 112th Congress, Representative Smith authored a letter in support of extending pension survivor benefits to same-sex partners. Representatives Norm Dicks, Jim McDermott, and Suzan DelBene joined Smith in cosigning the letter. Further, earlier this year, Congressman Smith introduced the Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act, which would extend equal benefits to all same-sex spouses of our servicemembers and veterans. ###
4.25.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement today in response to reports that the Assad regime used chemical weapons in Syria: “Based on the intelligence that we have, it appears that the Assad regime has used chemical weapons against the Syrian people. If true, this is a sad and worrisome development in an ongoing humanitarian crisis. We must work with our partners in the region and the international community to confirm beyond a doubt that chemical weapons were in fact used and, if so, determine who used them and when. The seriousness of the situation dictates a thorough and thoughtful approach. “If it turns out that chemical weapons were used, it would be the latest atrocity committed by the Assad regime. The civil war in Syria is an enormous humanitarian catastrophe caused by a brutal and desperate regime. But as we consider options to respond to this atrocity, I am not convinced that military action is appropriate at this time. There is no evidence that U.S. military action will achieve anything, except cost American lives and treasure. As we respond, we must remember the lessons we have learned from the war in Iraq. “We should work with the international community, as well as our allies in the region, to consider the best options to remove Assad from power and promote a regime that has the support of the Syrian people. However, we should be under no illusions that this will be easy. It won’t. We must exercise extreme caution, and we must not assume that the U.S. military can resolve this civil war. “The Syrian people deserve the right to live free of tyranny and oppression and the United States must continue to be a force for good in the world. I encourage the Administration to take the time necessary to confirm what has taken place and to develop an appropriate response.” ###
4.22.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement after the decision to charge Boston bombing suspect in civilian court: “I agree with President Obama’s decision to charge the Boston bombing suspect in civilian court. At this point in time, there is no evidence that the suspect was connected with al Qaeda or its affiliates, while there is an abundance of evidence that suggests he committed both state and federal crimes. There is no basis for him to be held as an enemy combatant at this time. Our civilian law enforcement and courts have a proven track record of success in crimes related to terrorism, and I have full confidence in their abilities. It is also critical that the suspect be interrogated to gain information and intelligence. We must ensure that we do all we can to understand the scope of the attacks and prevent a similar attack from happening again.”
4.22.2013	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after 5 people were killed in a Federal Way shooting: “I am stunned and saddened by the shooting that left 5 people dead in Federal Way. As details continue to emerge about the shooting, I will work with law enforcement to help provide any assistance they may need to keep our community safe.” ###
4.18.2013	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after the House passed the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA): “There has been an increase in cyber attacks on government agencies, financial institutions, and other private industries in the United States and globally. Our current defenses are not keeping pace with the increasing amount and sophistication of attacks, and our nation is at greater risk as a result. I voted for CISPA because it offers us an important opportunity to begin to get a handle on the real and growing cybersecurity threats that face us, but the bill is not perfect. “I was pleased to see notable improvements in this legislation’s protection of privacy and civil liberties over previous versions. The elimination of a broad provision that allowed information sharing for “national security uses” was a major step to improve privacy concerns. Now the bill only allows information sharing for more specific threats: cybersecurity, cyber crimes, protection from mortal danger or harm, and protection of minors from child pornography. CISPA also mandates the government to minimize or remove personally identifiable information obtained from the private sector, requires civilian entities within the government to receive cyber threats and crimes, and adds oversight responsibilities for the Privacy and Civil Liberties Board (PCLOB). “With that said, I do have significant privacy concerns with the legislation. The bill is still in need of stronger requirements for private companies to protect personal information and privacy before cybersecurity data is shared. Along with that, I have concerns that the liability protection provided by CISPA remains too broad for action taken by private entities in response to cyber threat information. “CISPA will go to conference with cybersecurity legislation that is eventually passed by the Senate, and during that process I will continue to fight to protect personal privacy and alleviate civil liberty concerns. However, given the many intelligence briefs I have received as Member of Congress detailing previous cyber attacks and our vulnerabilities to future attacks, doing nothing to improve our defense against cyber attacks right now is unacceptable.” ###
4.17.2013	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after the bipartisan group of senators introduced their immigration reform proposal: “Immigration reform is long overdue, and this bill is a first step toward comprehensively addressing our broken immigration system. Under this legislation, the legal immigration system would be overhauled, our nation’s border security would be enhanced, and the 11 million undocumented immigrants and their families would gain a path to citizenship. “We have to make it easier and simpler for individuals who support and grow our economy to come and remain here legally. Legal immigration is not an obstacle to growth, but rather supplements our economic competitiveness and American jobs by attracting needed workers, high-skilled entrepreneurs, and investors. We also must ensure that we keep families together. “This bill is not perfect, and as it advances through the legislative process, I will continue to work to ensure that our immigration system will allow families to stay together, businesses to thrive, and our nation to be secure.” ###
4.15.2013	Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement recognizing National Minority Cancer Awareness Week: "Today marks the beginning of National Minority Cancer Awareness Week. It is critical that we use this week to bring attention to the health challenges facing minority communities and the disparities that exist with cancer. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Black men and women have the highest cancer death rates of all ethnic groups with colon cancer having a death rate nearly 40 percent higher than the general population. Further, the Intercultural Cancer Council reports that liver cancer rates among Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese Americans are higher than White Americans. A recent study also showed lower cancer screening rates among Hispanics versus non- Hispanics. "These disparities are unacceptable. As our healthcare capabilities continue to improve, we must ensure that all communities benefit. By raising awareness and making measured investments in the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Office of Minority Health, we can improve health services and research, increase early cancer detection, and expand networks and access to combat health disparities among minority populations throughout the country. To learn more about cancer health disparities, visit the CDC’s website." ###
4.9.2013	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement on Equal Pay Day: “Equal Pay Day serves as a stark reminder of the discrimination that women face in the workplace. The Equal Pay Act was signed into law 50 years ago, yet a significant pay gap between men and women remains. Women now make up around half of the workforce, but earn only 77 cents for every dollar that men earn for doing the same work. This disparity exists at all levels of education and occupation and is entirely unacceptable. Further, as women’s wages continue to make up a growing share of family incomes, pay inequality negatively impacts both children and spouses as well. This is not just a women’s issue; it is also a family issue. “Representative Rosa DeLauro introduced the Paycheck Fairness Act in January, legislation that would help make sure that women are paid at equal levels for equal work. It would require employers who pay a man more than a woman for the same job to provide proof that the disparity is not gender-based, prohibit employers from retaliating against employees who discuss salary information, and make it easier for women to file class-action lawsuits against employers they accuse of gender-based pay discrimination. I am an original cosponsor of this legislation. “As we recognize Equal Pay Day, it is critical that we continue to push for legislation, such as the Paycheck Fairness Act, that would fight to end gender-based wage discrimination. When women are paid equally for equal work, it benefits us all.” ###
3.26.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement on the Supreme Court cases reviewing Proposition 8 and the Defense of Marriage Act this week: “No couple should be denied the right to marry and build a life together based on love, commitment, and mutual support. That is why I am a strong supporter of repealing the so-called “Defense Of Marriage Act.” I will continue to fight for the equal treatment and protection of all LGBT people and their families. This February, I introduced the Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act, and I will work with my colleagues to pass this bill that would allow equal standing for same-sex spouses of our servicemembers. “The progress that has been made toward full marriage equality over the past decade is remarkable, but we have not reached our goal just yet. Marriage equality would be a critical step in recognizing the worth and dignity of our LGBT community. We must also be aware of and protect bullied teens, aggressively prosecute bias-based crimes, and fight against all prejudice whether it be based on a person’s sexual identity or expression of gender, or ethnicity, religion, sex, age or ability. I am committed to moving forward and making sure equality is a reality for all Americans.” ###
3.21.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the passage of the Republican budget: “Over the last 12 years, we have cut taxes to the tune of $7 trillion, while spending has significantly increased. This is a recipe for huge deficits and debt. We need to get our deficit under control, but we must also be mindful of our economy now. Deep budget cuts passed today by House Republicans would be too great of a blow to our economy and would hurt millions of working class Americans, families, and seniors. “The Republican budget radically dismantles Medicare by cutting benefits and turning the system into a voucher program. The budget fails to eliminate sequestration, slashes investments in education and worker training programs for working class families, and doesn’t raise a penny of revenue. This all-cuts approach forces education, transportation, and other essential programs to face deep, destabilizing cuts that could limit growth by undermining investment in our national priorities. “I voted in support of two proposals that outline a balanced approach to decreasing our deficit, making measured investments in our economy, and maintaining the benefits and integrity of Medicare and Medicaid. I voted for the House and Senate Democratic budgets because they encourage economic growth now and in the long-term. These proposals would eliminate the mindless, across-the-board cuts known as sequestration, and put in place a balanced, sustainable deficit reduction plan that raises revenues and makes strategic cuts in spending, while also investing in job-creation and education. These budgets set reasonable goals in decreasing our deficits while also investing in jobs and our economy now. “While our economy continues to recover, our nation needs a thoughtful deficit reduction plan that is balanced through increases in revenue and cuts to spending, removes sequestration, drives our economy toward prosperity, and is careful not to cut too deeply too quickly. Unfortunately, the so-called Ryan Budget that passed today in the House of Representatives fails in all four tests.” ###
3.21.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the passage of the Continuing Resolution today in the House of Representatives: “The Continuing Resolution that passed today is in no way perfect. I support the resolution because it prevents a government shutdown that would destabilize the economy and provides more flexibility to Defense, Veterans Affairs, Agriculture, Commerce, Justice, Science, and Homeland Security funding as they deal with the over 8 percent across the board spending cuts known as the sequester. I hope that by averting the shutdown, Congress can come together to work on passing comprehensive, long-term appropriations bills that will eliminate sequestration and promote jobs and economic growth.”
3.15.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee made the following statement after the announcement that Japan will request membership in Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations: “Japan’s interest in joining negotiations is a major step toward expanding the economic reach of TPP, which negotiators are already seeking to shape into an ambitious and comprehensive 21st Century agreement. Japan is a major economic partner and strategic ally in a geopolitically essential part of the world. There are remaining issues that the Administration has raised and, while progress has been made, I would encourage both governments to dedicate themselves to resolving these legitimate issues. “The countries of the Asia Pacific region will continue to be essential strategic partners in the future. It is in our national interest to engage this fast-growing region and deepen our relations through regional and bilateral diplomacy, increased military engagement, and improved economic relations. “If done right, TPP will promote innovation, high labor standards, help small and medium sized businesses participate, and allow our country and the Pacific Northwest to more actively compete in international markets. Nearly 40 percent of jobs in Washington State are trade related, and by potentially reducing barriers for U.S. goods to this region, exporters will have greater access to markets and opportunities for growth. I will continue to monitor TPP negotiations as they advance to ensure that our trade partnerships are the best deal for the American people.” ###
3.13.2013	Today, the U.S. Air Force announced that the Air Mobility Command’s (AMC) biennial Rodeo readiness competition has been cancelled this year because of budget shortfalls. The event would have been held at Joint Base Lewis-McChord in July. Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement after the cancellation was announced: “The AMC’s Rodeo competition at JBLM is a great event that includes airlift, air-refueling, aeromedical evacuation, aerial port, and maintenance crews competing against one another in many mission-related competitions. It is very disappointing that this training event has been cancelled, but I understand the decision since mission-essential requirements are prioritized over events like these,” said House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith. “This represents a real example of how the fiscal uncertainty and across-the-board cuts of sequestration are negatively impacting Washington State. Congress has a responsibility to the American people to address our fiscal issues in a balanced and effective way, and I will continue to work to that end.” Over 20 U.S. and a dozen allied nations teams were planning to attend AMC’s 2013 Rodeo event at Joint Base Lewis-McChord. For more information, see the U.S. Air Force’s Air Mobility Command press release here.
3.12.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement regarding the release of the Republican budget: “Instead of finding a balanced, comprehensive approach to dealing with our deficit right now, the Republican budget introduced today radically reforms Medicare by cutting benefits and turning the system into a voucher program, slashes investments in education and worker training programs for working class families, and fails to raise a penny of revenue. It is intolerable to make these severe cuts without raising any revenues. “Over the last decade, spending has significantly increased while revenue has been cut leaving us with a deficit around $1 trillion. This is not a recipe for fiscal responsibility. We have a deficit problem that must be addressed, and we need to find savings in all areas of government, but we cannot simply cut our way to a balanced budget. “Without raising revenues, Medicare, Medicaid, Social security, education, transportation, and other essential programs will face deep, destabilizing cuts. I support raising the revenue necessary to protect these programs. By taking an all-cuts approach to deficit reduction, the Republican budget burdens seniors with cuts to health benefits, deeply cuts essential programs for millions of underserved families, and limits national growth by undermining the investment to our national priorities. This is not fiscal responsibility. “I hope the House Budget Committee can come together and put forward a balanced approach that responsibly reduces our deficit by making strategic cuts in mandatory and discretionary spending, while also raising revenues. Congress has a responsibility to the American people to address our fiscal issues in a balanced and effective way, which the Republican budget does not offer.”
3.11.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement following the crash of an Navy EA-6B Prowler in Eastern Washington: “My thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of those who died in today’s tragic accident. Our servicemen and women take the ultimate risk while training at home and serving abroad. Nothing can replace the service and sacrifice of those who lost their lives today.” ###
3.6.2013	Today, the House passed H.R. 933, a bill that represents a missed opportunity to avoid damaging cuts through sequestration. After voting against the bill, Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement: “While this bill does allow the Department of Defense some discretion in implementing the across-the-board spending cuts through sequestration, it is a missed opportunity to remove these cuts all together and address our budget in a balanced way. Additionally, this bill fails to address the impact of sequestration on other important programs such as education, transportation, and scientific research. “We should be squarely focused on removing cuts through sequestration, not implementing them. Regardless of how the cuts are implemented, they will still be extremely damaging. The deep, indiscriminate cuts threaten jobs, our economy, and our national security. We must repeal sequestration. This spending bill fails to end these devastating cuts and essentially locks them in for the remainder of the fiscal year without giving any department or agency, with the exception of the Department of Defense and Veterans Affairs, the ability to manage their budgets given our current budget situation. “It is my hope that the Senate will be able to pass a balanced approach that removes sequestration and provides our economy with some certainty. Congress has a responsibility to the American people to address our fiscal issues in a balanced and effective way. Over the last ten years, we have dramatically cut taxes and increased spending. This is unsustainable. We need to take steps to address our long-term budget problems, but this bill is the wrong way to achieve that goal.” ###
3.1.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), released the following statement in response to the implementation of sequestration: “Today marks the beginning of the implementation of across-the-board cuts through sequestration. This is a disappointing development that should have been avoided. As I have said for months, this is not how we should govern or address our deficit issues. “Congress has a responsibility to the American people to address our fiscal issues in a balanced and effective way. Without a doubt, the federal government has a deficit problem. Over the last ten years, we have dramatically cut taxes and increased spending. This is unsustainable. We need to take steps to address our long-term budget problems, but cuts through sequestration are the wrong way to achieve that goal. “We need a holistic and balanced approach that addresses mandatory spending and raises new revenues while, at the same time, responsibly reducing discretionary spending over the long-term. Deep and indiscriminate cuts in the short -term could push our economy back into a recession and damage national security and important programs. “This week, I introduced a bill designed to eliminate sequestration and implement an alternative spending plan that is designed to promote greater certainty in our economy, the Department of Defense, and the entire federal government. This plan would ensure that discretionary spending, and the economy, are no longer held hostage while Congress debates the larger revenue increases and mandatory spending changes necessary to move towards fiscal responsibility. “It is my hope that a deal is reached before the cuts go too deep. I remain committed to working with my colleagues and constituents to resolve these devastating cuts and find a long-term solution to our fiscal issues.”
2.27.2013	On November 29, 2009, four police officers in Lakewood, Washington were tragically shot and killed as they prepared for the day ahead. Through later investigation, it was discovered that the perpetrator that murdered the policemen was a convicted felon on parole, and that information was not effectively transmitted to the necessary authorities. Representatives Adam Smith (WA-09) and Dave Reichert (WA-08) introduced, H.R. 817, the Department of Justice (DOJ) Global Advisory Committee (GAC) Authorization Act to improve information sharing between all local, state, and federal law enforcement across the country. “As a former cop and sheriff, I know that the more information law enforcement agents have, the better they can do their jobs,” said Reichert, the former Sheriff of King County who served 33 years in law enforcement, “This bill will improve communication among members of law enforcement and enhance the security of communities across the country. When the lives of cops and citizens are at stake, law enforcement officers must have all available information at their disposal so that they may effectively serve and protect the well-being of those citizens who count on them every day and to safeguard their colleagues.” This legislation would continue to provide technical and financial support for GAC. Additionally, the bill would require that the Attorney General (AG) reviews information sharing between state, local, and federal law enforcement agencies and issue a report to Congress highlighting GAC’s review and recommendations to improve data interoperability and information sharing policies. “Concerns about public safety have come under the national spotlight in recent months,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “This legislation would help enhance information sharing between all levels of law enforcement, which can only help improve law enforcement officials’ ability to keep our communities safe.” GAC, which consists of over 30 representatives from law enforcement and criminal justice organizations, was established in 1998 and advises the AG on how to improve best practices and information sharing within the law enforcement community. The committee provides a forum to discuss strategies and potential solutions to keep our communities safe. ###
2.27.2013	Today, as the implementation of sequestration grows closer, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith will introduce the Sequestration Relief Act of 2013. The bill is a responsible approach designed to eliminate sequestration and implement an alternative spending plan that is designed to provide certainty to our economy, the Department of Defense, and the entire federal government. “Cuts through sequestration were intentionally designed to be so unacceptable and so damaging to national security and the economy, that Congress would be forced to take serious action to reduce the deficit,” said Ranking Member Smith. “Unfortunately, that threat failed to produce a comprehensive, balanced solution to our deficit challenges. We can no longer rely on this devastating mechanism to compel action. My bill would make a down payment on deficit reduction, dispel some of the economic uncertainty, and remove the threat of sequestration to our economy, the Department of Defense, and the entire federal government.” The Responsible Solution The legislation introduced by Smith would eliminate the sequester scheduled to take effect on March 1, 2013, and remove the Budget Control Act’s statutory requirement to produce $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction. The bill would produce $320 billion in spending reductions, one-third of what the March 1 sequester would cut indiscriminately, by incrementally reducing discretionary spending caps over eight years. Of that $320 billion, $167 billion would be drawn from the defense budget, and the remaining $153 billion would come from all other areas of discretionary spending. Additionally, the bill would suspend the debt limit until February 1, 2017. “This bill does not deny the fact that we need to make changes to mandatory spending programs and raise new revenues. We absolutely do. This alternative plan would ensure that discretionary spending accounts, and the economy, are no longer held hostage while Congress debates the larger revenue increases and mandatory spending changes necessary to move towards fiscal responsibility. We have a deficit problem that must be addressed, but we should not damage our economy and undermine national security in the process,” said Smith. Background As a resolution to the failed debt ceiling debate in 2011, Congress created the Budget Control Act, which Smith voted against. The act temporarily raised the debt limit and stipulated that if Congress did not find $1.2 trillion in savings, then a process called sequestration would kick in. Cuts through sequestration were designed to be so damaging to our national defense, the economy, and other important federal programs, that Congress would be forced to act. As a deterrent to inaction, sequestration failed. Congress did not act, yet the devastating mechanism intended to force action remains in-place. As a result, a wide variety of federal programs face crippling uncertainty, including investments in national security, the workforce, transportation infrastructure, education, health care, public safety, housing, innovation, small business development, Medicare, and many other facets of enduring national strength. Over the weekend, the White House released a detailed report outlining the serious implications of sequestration.
2.15.2013	Just one day after House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith’s reintroduction of the Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act (MSET), the legislation has received support from several organizations and 43 Members of Congress. Additionally, today Senator Jeanne Shaheen (NH) and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) introduced a companion bill in the Senate, the Charlie Morgan Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act. Below are statements of support for MSET. Allyson Robinson, executive director of Outserve-SLDN: “Treating service members equally, without partiality or favoritism, is one of the most basic principles of sound military leadership... Today, we thank Congressman Smith for taking this crucial step to strengthen our military, and we urge his colleagues in both parties and in both houses of Congress to join him and us in this important fight.” Link to Statement Human Rights Campaign Legislative Director Allison Herwitt: “Gay and lesbian service members and their families make sacrifices every day. We owe them the same measure of support that other service members receive. We commend Congressman Adam Smith for his leadership to address this inequity in federal law.” Link to Blog Fact Sheet Lawrence J. Korb, Senior Fellow for the Center for American Progress: “The Defense of Marriage Act harms our military families and compromises our military readiness. Outgoing Defense Secretary Leon Panetta made clear that there is no room for discrimination in the ranks when he extended a number of benefits to same-sex military spouses earlier this week, and now members of Congress like Rep. Smith and Sens. Gillibrand and Shaheen are adding their voices to the fight for full equality in our country’s armed forces. This is an issue of fairness but—just as importantly—it is an issue of military readiness and it must be addressed promptly.” Link to Statement Senator Jeanne Shaheen (NH): “All service members deserve complete recognition for their service and sacrifice, and that means benefits for them and their loved ones. Right now we don’t have equality in service for LGBT individuals, and I am committed to doing everything to fix that. We’ve made progress, but we’re not done yet and the Charlie Morgan Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act is a needed fix to getting all military families the benefits they have earned.” Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY): “This legislation is an important step forward in achieving full equality for all of our men and women serving and fighting for our nation. Same-sex partners of military servicemembers should not be denied essential benefits because of who they are. We must ensure that all of our military families who have sacrificed so much have access to the services and treatment they need and deserve.” Representative Gwen Moore (WI-4): “As those in the military fight for justice and equality, it is egregious that those they love are denied benefits that they should be entitled to. If a state has recognized marriage for all, then our military should not stand in the way.” Representative John Garamendi (CA-3): “Gay and lesbian military personnel serve with equal valor and distinction, and their spouses deserve equal benefits and protections… It’s really that simple. I’m proud to cosponsor Ranking Member Smith’s Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act, and we owe it to our brave men and women in uniform and their families to give this the up or down vote it deserves.” Representative Mark Pocan (WI-2): “Supporting our servicemen and women and our veterans also means supporting their spouses and families, whose sacrifices often go unseen and unrecognized. This support should not be contingent on whether a member of our military is gay or straight” Link to Statement Representative Jim McDermott (WA-7): “Military spouses take the same risks, pass the same sleepless nights, and give the same critical support, no matter their gender. The least we can do is give their families the dignity and respect of equal benefits.” Representative Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1): ”We owe every member of our armed forces a tremendous debt for their service, sacrifice, and bravery. Our commitment to honoring them as outstanding Americans must include recognizing their spouses and families—regardless of sexual orientation.” Link to Statement Representative Annie Kuster (NH-2): “Every soldier, sailor, airman, and marine deserves to know that the American people will always support their families, no matter who they love.” Representative Adam Schiff (CA-28): “This important legislation would make sure that all service members and their spouses receive the same opportunities, benefits and services. All spouses in the military – regardless of orientation – put up with tremendous hardships, and it’s time we recognize their contribution and sacrifice with true equality.” Representative Denny Heck (WA-10): “All families serving at Joint Base Lewis-McChord and all veterans living in the South Puget Sound deserve equal protection under the law. I'm proud to be a co-sponsor of the Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act.” On February 14, 2013, Congressman Adam Smith reintroduced the Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act (MSET), a bill that would ensure equal benefits for all military spouses and equal standing for all military families. By changing the definition of “spouse” in the relevant sections of the U.S. code, MSET would require the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to recognize any marriage that has been recognized by a state or the District of Columbia, and provide equal benefits to all spouses. ###
2.14.2013	Today, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith reintroduced H.R. 683, the Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act of 2013, legislation that is designed to ensure equal benefits for all military spouses and equal standing for all military families. “Despite the Department of Defense making strides towards equality in the military, there is more that must be done to ensure that the rights of all servicemembers and their spouses are protected, regardless of who they are married to,” said Ranking Member Adam Smith. “This bill would make sure that servicemembers and veterans with same-sex spouses receive the same benefits as their heterosexual counterparts. All spouses of those serving in our Armed Services make tremendous sacrifices for our country, and no one should be prevented from receiving hard-earned benefits simply because they are the same sex as their partner.” Secretary Panetta’s recent efforts to extend some benefits to the same-sex partners of servicemembers is a significant step forward, but the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs remain very limited in what benefits they provide to same-sex spouses. Some benefits that could not be provided through Secretary Panetta’s regulatory changes include medical and dental care, dependent-rate housing allowances, survivor benefits, cost of living allowances, and protection under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. The Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act of 2013 fixes this discriminatory practice by changing the definition of “spouse” in the relevant sections in the United States code to read: “an individual shall be considered a ‘spouse’ if the marriage of the individual is valid in the State in which the marriage was entered into or, in the case of a marriage entered into outside any State, if the marriage is valid in the place in which the marriage was entered into and the marriage could have been entered into in a State.” This change will require the Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs to recognize any marriage that has been recognized by a state or the District of Columbia and provide the same benefits to the spouses of all service members. Link to bill here.
2.12.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement regarding the economy in the President’s State of the Union Address: “The most pressing challenges our country faces are creating jobs and charting a responsible path towards fiscal security. This starts with Congress eliminating sequestration, but it also includes passing long-term federal budgets that lift the crippling uncertainty destined to devastate our economy. “Tonight, the President laid out the right steps to move towards economic certainty by taking a balanced approach of increasing revenues and reducing spending, making it clear that we cannot simply cut our way to prosperity. As the President highlighted, it is critical that we make investments in education and clean energy, as well as comprehensive reforms to our immigration system that ensures that bright minds and driven workers are coming to our country to expand job opportunities and strengthen the economy. “The time is now for Congress to make difficult choices and find long-term solutions that provide economic stability and reduce our national deficits. We must agree to solutions that eliminate the threat of sequestration, and provides the federal government, and the economy, with the certainty they need to move forward. I will work with the President and my colleagues in Congress to provide new job opportunities and immediate economic growth while finding long-term solutions to our fiscal situation.
2.6.2013	The Peace Corps announced that Seattle University ranks fifth nationally among small colleges and universities in terms of alumni currently serving as volunteers. Washington state also took the number one spot in all three categories of small, medium, and large undergraduate schools with Gonzaga, Western Washington, and the University of Washington having the most alumni currently volunteering in the Peace Corps. “Congratulations to Seattle University for ranking fifth in the Peace Corps rankings for small colleges and universities,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “The Peace Corps is a great program that has made a remarkable impact around the world in areas desperately in need of basic services, health care, education facilities, and more. Volunteers demonstrate the true goodwill spirit of the American people and are an important part of American diplomacy and our international development efforts. It speaks volumes about Seattle University and other Washington state schools that so many alumni have joined the Peace Corps and made significant contributions to communities across the globe.” Every year, the Peace Corps ranks Top Colleges based on size of the school. Small schools have less than 5,000 undergraduates, medium schools have between 5,000 and 15,000 and large schools have over 15,000 undergraduate students. This year’s rankings are calculated based on Fiscal Year 2012 data. See the full Peace Corps Press Release here.
2.1.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement to commemorate Black History Month: “As we celebrate Black History Month, we are reminded of the great achievements African-Americans both past and present have made to help shape the fabric of our nation. Throughout history, African-Americans have been remarkable inventors, philosophers, statesmen, writers, and leaders in our community. While Black History Month inspires us to recognize the vast number of achievements of African-Americans, we should continue to incorporate Black history in our schools’ American history curriculum year-round. “In the face of our nation’s most disgraceful moments, from slavery to segregation, African-Americans have showed incredible leadership, determination, and commitment in fighting for equality that has benefitted millions of Americans. We should take the lessons of the past to advance our society beyond the oppression, prejudice, and hate that continues to plague our country. While our nation struggles to solve unemployment rates, bring our public schools to a competitive standard, mend our broken healthcare model, and fix our judiciary system, we must recognize that African-Americans are disproportionately affected when we fail to do so. As a nation, it is critical that we ensure every American, regardless of race, ethnicity, or economic status has an equal opportunity to succeed.”
2.1.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on the sentencing of Saeed Abedini: ”I condemn the arrest of U.S. citizen Saeed Abedini in Iran and Iran's continued violation of the universal right to freedom of religion. By offering Mr. Abedini’s attorney only one day for his defense, Iran has not provided transparency and fairness in his trial. I support the State Department’s condemnation of Iran’s actions and their call to release Saeed Abedini and respect his human rights. I, along with many of their friends in the Puget Sound region, offer my thoughts and prayers to Saeed, his wife Naghmeh, and their children during this difficult time.”
1.31.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the Commerce Department’s estimate for the GDP in the fourth quarter of 2012: “It is deeply troubling that our GDP contracted in the fourth quarter of 2012, representing the first negative growth in more than three years. With the risk of sequestration on the horizon, no long-term solution for the debt ceiling, and the inability to pass appropriations bills, it is no surprise that our economy was negatively impacted. “Now is the time for Congress to make the difficult choices and implement long-term solutions that provide stability for the economy. Unfortunately, Republicans insist on using appropriations bills and the debt ceiling as bargaining chips to further an agenda of spending cuts to important programs like Medicare, while refusing to even discuss increasing revenues as part of any solution. This has led to stalled appropriations bills, the risk of default, and the threat of sequestration, all of which hurt our economy. As we move forward, Congress must provide critical stability and certainty by agreeing on comprehensive, long-term appropriation bills that will eliminate the threat of sequestration, defaulting on our debt, and government shutdowns.” ###
1.29.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) issued the following statement on the President's support of immigration reform and a bipartisan framework in Congress: "Addressing our immigration system in a comprehensive way is incredibly important and long overdue. The announcement of a framework Monday morning by the bipartisan group of Senators and President Obama's vocal support of similar principles today are critical steps forward. While there are still many details to be figured out and significant work to be done, I'm encouraged by this initial action and look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to make immigration reform a reality this Congress."
1.25.2013	Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after Denis McDonough was named White House Chief of Staff: ”I would like to express my sincere congratulations to Denis McDonough for his appointment as the next White House Chief of Staff. I have known and worked with Denis for years. He is a strong leader, a thoughtful advisor, and a tireless worker. Denis’ advice has helped President Obama accomplish his national security objectives throughout his presidency. As a seasoned Congressional staffer and with his experience in the Obama Administration, most recently as the Deputy National Security Advisor, Denis has built and maintained strong relationships with Congress that will serve him well in his new capacity as Chief of Staff. I have no doubt that Denis will continue be a tremendous advisor to President Obama and look forward to working with him in his new role.”
1.23.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after he opposed H.R. 325, the “No Budget, No Pay Act”: "Rather than increasing the debt limit in a long-term way that would provide certainty and stability for our economy, the legislation passed by the House of Representatives simply punts the debt limit issue until May. By choosing to delay addressing our debt limit in a serious way, we only make matters worse. “The debt limit allows the U.S. government to pay back its debts and in no way increases our spending. Not being able to find long-term solutions to our debt limit will only prevent the U.S. from being able to pay back our debts – not reduce our deficits. Congress and the American people need to be serious about reducing our deficits by cutting spending and increasing revenue. The proposal passed today fails to get us on a path to fiscal security. “
1.21.2013	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day: "Today, we celebrate Martin Luther King Jr. Day by remembering Dr. King's commitment and tireless efforts to provide every American with equal rights and opportunities. His courage, compassion, and inspiration continue to make our nation better. "Although our country has made strides, we have not fully achieved Dr. King's dream. Too many children still have unequal access to a good education and adequate healthcare. On this important day, we must honor Dr. King's legacy by continuing the fight for equality."
1.16.2013	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after President Obama announced his proposal to reduce gun violence: “America is facing an epidemic of gun violence. We need to find a comprehensive approach that improves access to mental health services, closes loopholes in background check requirements, and bans military-style and excessively violent assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. “Today, the President offered an initial plan to reduce and prevent gun violence through executive actions. It is now Congress’ turn to act to create lasting reforms that keep our communities safe. As part of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, I will work with my colleagues to review the President’s plan, as well as other proposals, to put policies in place that protect our children and communities while maintaining the rights granted by the Second Amendment.“
1.9.2013	Today, the Air Force announced that Fairchild Air Force Base in Washington State is a final candidate to serve as a base for the KC-46A aerial refueling tanker. The base is a candidate for the first Main Operating Base, which will host three KC-46A squadrons of twelve aircraft each beginning in 2016. House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the announcement: “I am pleased to see Fairchild Air Force Base included in the list of final candidates to host KC-46A,” Smith said. “Fairchild has played a critical part in our nation’s aerial refueling effort with the KC-135, and it is my hope that it will continue to do so with the next generation of aerial refueling tankers.” After identifying the basing criteria in April 2012, the Air Force examined military installations across the country to select the candidates for the first two operational bases for KC-46A. In addition to Fairchild Air Force Base, the other candidates for the first Main Operating Base announced by the Air Force include Altus Air Force Base, OK; Grand Forks Air Force Base, ND; and McConnell Air Force Base, KS. The Air Force will conduct site surveys of the candidate installations before announcing the preferred and alternative bases in April 2013. A final basing decision is expected to be made by the Air Force in Spring 2014. On May 16, 2012, Congressman Smith signed a letter with local Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and the rest of the Washington State Congressional Delegation to Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley, encouraging the Air Force to base KC-46A at Fairchild. The letter detailed Fairchild’s capacity to accommodate the tanker and its success with previous aerial refueling efforts.
1.2.2013	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement on the passage of the H.R. 8, the fiscal cliff agreement: "I voted against the fiscal cliff deal because it left too much uncertainty for government programs, lacked a realistic path towards deficit reduction, and fell short in providing necessary revenues to effectively move towards fiscal responsibility. "The legislation leaves far too much uncertainty on government spending. Sequestration still looms, it was simply delayed two months, and the debt ceiling was not addressed. As the Ranking Member on the Armed Services Committee, I am concerned that our Department of Defense once again faces a situation where they do not know how much money they will have to spend, and the very real possibility of indiscriminate across-the-board cuts just two months from now. I am also concerned that all other areas of discretionary spending--education, transportation, infrastructure, housing, and more--face this same crippling uncertainty. I recognize that defense and other areas of spending will face cuts, but we should be clear on what those cuts will be and they need to be more thoughtful than the blind across-the-board approach of sequestration. "Second, the deal did nothing to address our long term debt and deficit problems. No grand bargain was reached that could help our economy right now by giving some clear picture of what our ten-year plan is to achieve some measure of fiscal responsibility. I understand that our current situation means that balancing the budget in that ten-year period is not a wise policy decision. But we should at least have something in place that shows we will keep the debt at a manageable level. This bill failed to do that. "And third, not only did this bill fail to offer that ten-year plan, it made getting to a reasonable ten-year plan far more difficult by making permanent 90 percent of the Bush Tax Cuts. By not allowing those tax cuts to expire, and then making them permanent, we took $3.5 Trillion of revenue off the table. This will lead to one of two results, both of which I am strongly against. Either our debt will climb over 100 percent of GDP or we will have to make devastating cuts in vital programs like Medicare, Social Security, Medicaid, education, transportation, and more. "We face very tough choices right now. Our economy is weak, and our debt is substantial and growing by nearly one trillion dollars a year with no end in sight. There are no easy answers. But continuing to take an approach that delays addressing the fundamental choices we face will only make matters worse."
12.21.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member, Congressman Adam Smith, released the following statement after Senator John Kerry was nominated to serve as the next Secretary of State: “Senator John Kerry will make an exceptional Secretary of State. I have worked with John for years, and his understanding of our nation’s foreign policy challenges is second to none. As Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman, he also fully understands the power of diplomacy, and using soft power to achieve our national security objectives. This understanding will be key to his success. “Senator Kerry is a skilled speaker, and a strategic thinker and he will be an essential addition to President Obama’s national security team. I look forward to working with him.” ###
12.18.2012	Washington, DC- Today, 7 members of the Washington State Congressional Delegation applauded the release (link to report here) of the Washington Military Alliance’s report as an important step in gaining a better understanding of the Department of Defense’s (DoD) footprint in Washington State. DoD’s investment represents over 4 percent of the State’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), so it is critical to evaluate the assets Washington has and how they fit into the DoD’s future plans. Following the release of the report on Tuesday, December 18th , Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Patty Murray (D-WA), together with Representatives Adam Smith (D-WA-09), Suzan DelBene (D-WA-01), Norm Dicks (D-WA-06), Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) and Jim McDermott(D-WA-07) issued the following joint statement: “We applaud the Washington Military Alliance (WMA), Governor Christine Gregoire, and the completion of this report that details the critical role Washington defense communities play in our national security and the opportunities they have to enhance that role in the future. In light of potential cuts to the defense budget, this report outlines steps that local, State, and Federal entities can take to continue working together to support and enhance the vital contributions that Washington State makes to our national security. “We recognize the proud military history our state has and we look forward to continuing to work together as a delegation with the Governor-elect to support local stakeholders and our military installations, servicemembers, and their families.” The Washington Military Alliance brings together representatives from community groups and organizations to promote military economic development in Washington State. The Alliance meets regularly to coordinate priorities and recommend actions as military budget decisions are considered.
12.17.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement on the passing of Senator Daniel Inouye: "My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of Senator Daniel Inouye. "Senator Inouye was a true American hero and dedicated his life to public service. He served in World War II, where he received a Medal of Honor, was elected Hawaii’s first Congressman, tirelessly advocated for veterans, spoke out for minority rights, was the highest ranking Asian American politician ever, and never stopped fighting for his constituents. "Senator Inouye always put his country above politics, and he was a model for elected officials everywhere."
12.14.2012	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement on the shooting in Newtown, CT: "I am stunned and saddened by this horrific shooting. As a father of young children, my heart goes out to the families and friends of all the victims of the attack in Newtown, Connecticut. We must stand together and support this community in the weeks to come as they recover from this tragedy."
12.12.2012	On Tuesday, Seven South King County school districts collectively won a $40 million Race to the Top grant from the U.S. Department of Education. This tremendous achievement is the result of a coordinated effort between Auburn, Federal Way, Highline, Kent, Renton, Seattle, and Tukwila school districts and their partnership with the Road Map Project, which is a region-wide effort to bring together community organizations, government, universities, community colleges, school districts and others to advance K-12 student achievement and access to higher education. “I want to congratulate each school district for recognizing the common challenges they face and working together with the Road Map Project to collectively solve them,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “This grant will provide funds for critical early learning programs, STEM education, and resources to improve access to higher education for students in South King County. At a time of limited federal resources, this remarkable coordinated effort to achieve a Race to the Top grant stands as a model for school districts across the country.” Race to the Top is a national grant competition that helps drive states and school districts across the country to raise academic standards, use data more effectively, create innovative strategies to help schools, and generally improve our education system. These 7 South King County School districts were one of 16 winners chosen out of 372 applications nationwide, and were one of only two awardees that received the maximum $40 million dollar award.
12.12.2012	United States Representatives Ander Crenshaw (R-FL) and Adam Smith (D-WA), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus for Effective Foreign Assistance, today (12/12) applauded the introduction of the Global Partnerships Act of 2012, H.R. 6644 as an important step in moving the debate forward on how to make foreign assistance more effective, transparent, and accountable. Following the introduction of the bill on Wednesday, December 12 by Howard Berman, Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Crenshaw and Smith issued the following statement: “As Co-Chairs of the Caucus, we applaud Congressman Berman’s efforts, with the introduction of the Global Partnerships Act of 2012, to lay out a foundation for true progress in the delivery of foreign assistance. Using the successful and proven models of innovative programs like PEPFAR and the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC), the Global Partnerships Act outlines a comprehensive framework to transform the donor-recipient relationship to one of equal partners working toward mutually agreed and mutually beneficial goals. “More importantly, the proposal shifts reliance on foreign assistance decisions to our local partners and our own development professionals and seeks an outcome-oriented process where the focus is on what we achieve. Like the models noted above, this new framework holds both sides accountable for results. We should expect nothing less from the valuable resources the American people contribute to foreign assistance. “In light of negotiations to avert a fiscal cliff and attempts to get spending under control, foreign assistance dollars have once again come under attack, with some arguing that the United States can no longer afford it. We must not lose sight of the fact that foreign assistance makes up only one percent of the federal budget. Simply eliminating these essential programs does not solve our fiscal problems. “Our security and economy benefit from peace and prosperity in the rest of the world. With effective foreign assistance, the United States can advance its interests and enhance national security by promoting stability through protecting basic individual rights, providing for essential human needs, resolving conflicts peacefully, and seeing that resources are used wisely. “Our development policies and delivery of assistance abroad are improving, but there is still much more to be done. By advancing the debate on this issue, we can move toward better coordination at home and internationally by clarifying roles and identifying effective strategies.” BACKGROUND: Crenshaw and Smith launched the Congressional Caucus for Effective Foreign Assistance in May of 2012. Created for the purposes of examining the way the United States currently delivers foreign assistance, the Caucus will continue to explore success stories found in the efficient delivery of assistance with the goal of helping to further the overall effectiveness of foreign assistance.
12.1.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in recognition of World AIDS Day: “On World AIDS Day, we stand with the millions of people living with HIV and AIDS across the globe, reflect on the progress we have made, and continue to advance the fight against the disease. “Combating AIDS is a shared responsibility. Our country and the global community have made incredible strides over the last 30 years in the battle against HIV and AIDS, but there are still an estimated 34 million people worldwide and over 1 million people in the United States living with HIV. Investment in medical research, regular HIV testing, increased access to treatment, and education about preventing the spread of HIV are absolutely critical in creating an AIDS-free generation. “Today, we reflect and celebrate our achievements, but also remember that we must strive towards our goal of ridding the world of HIV/AIDS each and every day.“
11.29.2012	Three years ago today, Washington state faced a tragedy when four police officers were shot and killed as they prepared for the day ahead. Investigation later revealed that the individual who murdered the officers was a convicted felon on parole and that relevant information was not effectively transmitted to the proper authorities. Today, Representatives Adam Smith (WA-09) and Dave Reichert (WA-08) introduced the Department of Justice (DOJ) Global Advisory Committee (GAC) Authorization Act to improve information sharing between all local, state, and federal law enforcement across the country. “As a former cop and sheriff, I know that the more information law enforcement agents have, the better they can do their jobs,” said Reichert, the former Sheriff of King County who served 33 years in law enforcement. “This bill will improve communication among members of law enforcement and enhance the security of communities across the country. When the lives of cops and citizens are at stake, law enforcement officers must have all available information at their disposal so that they may effectively serve and protect the well-being of those citizens who count on them every day and to safeguard their colleagues." This legislation would continue to provide technical and financial support for GAC. The bill would also add a new requirement that the Attorney General (AG) issue a report to Congress detailing GAC’s review and their suggestions to improve data interoperability and information sharing policies. "Information sharing between all levels of law enforcement plays a critical role in keeping our nation safe," Smith said. "This bill can only help move that process forward." GAC, which consists of over 30 representatives from law enforcement and criminal justice organizations, advises the AG on how to improve best practices and information sharing within the law enforcement community. The committee provides a forum to discuss strategies and potential solutions to keep our communities safe.
11.24.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on escalating violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC): "I condemn the ongoing violence in Eastern Congo and the March 23 Movement (M23) takeover of Goma. M23 rebels are responsible for war crimes, and countless attacks against innocent women and children. Their actions in Goma and continued ambition to seize cities in the east and across the country stand in violation of international law and could potentially destabilize the region at large. “The United States and the United Nations must continue to actively engage leaders in the international community to work towards a solution to this conflict. It is critical that the people in the DRC are protected and rebel groups are prevented from wreaking further havoc in this vulnerable part of the world."
11.21.2012	"Today's ceasefire between Israel and Hamas is a positive step in the right direction toward ending the rocket fire into Israel, which has gone on far too long. I applaud Hillary Clinton, the Obama Administration, and the Egyptian Government for brokering this agreement. "It is a fragile agreement, however, and continued US involvement is critical to achieve lasting long-term stability in the region. In order for the ceasefire to hold, Hamas must stop firing rockets into Israel and the U.S. must continue to ensure Israel's right to self-defense, particularly through Iron Dome. This agreement and additional assistance to support joint U.S.-Israeli missile defense efforts are absolutely critical to regional stability. "Both the Israelis and the Palestinians have suffered far too long in this conflict. We must use this ceasefire as an opportunity to work together to find lasting peace in the region."
11.19.2012	Recently, Congressman George Miller introduced H.R. 6591, the Streamlining and Improving Methods at Polling Locations and Early (SIMPLE) Voting Act, which requires early voting in all states for a minimum of 15 days prior to federal election days. 15 states currently have no forms of early voting. This legislation would also require that states have the necessary resources to ensure that all precincts are prepared to accommodate anticipated voter turnout and that no one has to wait for more than one hour to vote. “I thank Representative George Miller for introducing this important legislation that reduces wait time at the polls, requires states to hold early voting, and ensures that all voters have easier opportunities to vote,” said Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09). “The long lines and hours of waiting to vote in the 2012 election were unacceptable. Although this bill does not fix all of the problems with our voting system, it goes a long way to ensure that Americans with unexpected emergencies, illnesses, and demanding work schedules have ample opportunities to exercise their right to vote.” Along with requiring each state to provide a minimum of 15 days of early voting and requiring each voting precinct to have the necessary amount of voting machines, poll workers, and other resources, the proposed SIMPLE Voting Act would also require states to have a contingency plan in the case of long lines forming.
11.17.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement in response to the conflict between Israel and Palestinian Militants in Gaza: "I strongly condemn the relentless rocket attacks from Gaza into Israel. The random targeting of civilian populations is something that should never be tolerated and Israel has the absolute right to defend itself. "The Israeli people have never known peace and stability and generations have grown up in a culture of warfare, fear, and terror. For these reasons it is critical that we support Israel and do everything we can to ensure Israel can defend itself. "I am also sympathetic to the plight of Palestinians - the humanitarian crisis in Gaza is extremely troubling, but it cannot be resolved as long as Hamas and others in Gaza continue to attack Israel."
11.16.2012	Yesterday, the Department of Transportation announced preliminary approval for Delta Airlines, in partnership with Alaska Airlines, to provide service from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (Sea-Tac) to Tokyo’s downtown Haneda Airport. This new flight will greatly benefit Seattle and the Pacific Northwest region by linking it with key markets in Japan and Asia “I am thrilled that the Department of Transportation chose Delta Airlines, in partnership with Alaska Airlines, to operate a daily flight from Sea-Tac Airport to Tokyo’s Haneda Airport,” Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) said. “Home to many international businesses with a growing presence in Japan, this decision will bring the Pacific Northwest its first direct access to Tokyo’s Haneda airport. Expanding service to Haneda promotes economic growth and job creation among Washington state businesses, and also eases travel for Washingtonians by providing direct flights.” With an estimated 114,000 annual Seattle-Tokyo passengers that will benefit from this flight, as well as 40 cities that will now receive connecting service to Haneda through Delta and Alaska Airlines in Sea-Tac, this service will likely add to the $24 billion worth of trade between Japan and Seattle in 2011. The Haneda flight will operate using a Boeing 767-300ER and is scheduled to begin service in March 2013.
11.10.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in commemoration of Veterans Day: "In observance of Veterans Day, it is important to remember the sacrifice so many brave men and women have made to protect our country and ensure our freedom. "As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Congressman from Washington State's 9th District, it is my privilege to represent our service members in Congress. We owe the men and women who have served our country an enormous amount of gratitude and respect. As a Member of Congress who represents thousands of active and retired service members, I will continue working to address the needs of our veterans, and for those newly leaving active duty, to ensure they have the support necessary for their transition back to civilian life. "As a fierce advocate for veterans, I will continue to push for the expansion of job and educational opportunities. Moving forward, I will also continue to work with the President and all Members of Congress to provide all our men and women in uniform, our veterans, and their families with all the benefits they deserve for their years of faithful service."
11.9.2012	Every year, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) nominates individuals from Washington’s 9th Congressional District to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and the U.S. Naval Academy. Congressman Smith announced that he will be accepting applications through 5pm PST, Monday, November 26, 2012. “Every year, I have the privilege to nominate exceptional young men and women from the 9th Congressional District in Washington State to the U.S. military academies,” Smith said. “Each academy offers students unique leadership opportunities and an outstanding education.” To apply for an nomination, a candidate must live in Washington’s current Ninth Congressional District, be between 17 and 23 years old, and be unmarried. Applicants whose parents are temporarily stationed at a military base but maintain legal residence in another state should apply to the congressional office from that district. Each applicant must submit a completed nomination package to the district office in Tacoma by 5pm PST on November 26, 2012. For further information and a link to the application, please visit the Congressman’s Service Academy Nominations page.
11.7.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on immigration reform: “Immigration has been one of the great strengths of our nation. Skilled workers, bright minds, and dedicated individuals, and families from all over the world have come to our country because they see opportunity and a chance for a better life. The talent and hard work of those individuals has helped grow our economy and strengthen our nation. “As we work to reform our immigration system, we must look to improve all aspects of it, including maintaining our national security priorities, making it more efficient for those trying to come here legally, and keeping families together. The time is now to comprehensively address our greater immigration system and create a more streamlined process. The piecemeal approach to fixing our immigration policy has not provided the structure our country needs. “Immigration reform will require a deep, bipartisan commitment. I am eager to work with organizations and communities in my district and Washington State, as well as my colleagues in Congress to ensure we reform our immigration system into one that reflects our nation's values.”
10.4.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on the proposed T-Mobile, MetroPCS merger: "The proposed merger between T-Mobile and MetroPCS has the potential to improve competition in the wireless marketplace, secure many middle-class and high-tech jobs in the Puget Sound region, and solidify Washington State’s place as a leader in the telecommunications sector. "I look forward to a thorough and efficient regulatory review of the merger and to working to ensure that appropriate policies are in place to promote growth and innovation in this and other industries."
10.3.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on the Pennsylvania court ruling on Voter ID law: “I support the recent Pennsylvania court ruling to postpone the implementation of a state law requiring strict voter identification to participate in November’s election. "Voter ID laws in many states have the potential to disproportionately disenfranchise American seniors, youth, and minority communities. I am a proud cosponsor of the America Votes Act of 2012, introduced by my colleague Congressman Rick Larsen, that would protect American citizens’ right to vote by allowing individuals to present a signed affidavit confirming their identity, in place of photo identification. "Congress must uphold the constitutional freedom for all citizens to vote in our elections. I will continue to work at both the federal and local levels to ensure our states have the resources necessary to ensure access to this fundamental right. “
9.20.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on the one-year anniversary of the repeal of the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy: “One year ago, President Obama officially repealed the discriminatory “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy, allowing lesbian, gay, and bisexual service members to serve openly and honestly for the first time in our nation’s history. The transition over the last twelve months has been a very successful one. Our military, and country as a whole, are stronger as a result. Today, we must recognize and reflect on the significant progress we have made. “There is still more that must be done to reach full equality in the Armed Forces. To that end, Congress must work to pass the Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act – a bill that I have spearheaded that would provide same-sex spouses of service members and veterans the same rights and benefits as their heterosexual counterparts.”
9.19.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) issued the following statement in response to Jason Puracal being released from prison in Nicaragua and returning home to the United States : The hard work Jason Puracal’s family put in every day to secure his release has finally paid off. After nearly 2 years behind bars in Nicaragua for a crime he should never have been convicted of, Jason has been released from La Modelo prison and he is now safely out of Nicaragua. His family’s dedication to this uphill battle is unmatched. I am so pleased to know that they have had the joy of welcoming him home this week.
9.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) issued the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s launch of enforcement action against China at the World Trade Organization for illegally subsidizing exports for their auto and auto-parts manufacturers: “I was pleased to see today’s announcement that the United States has requested dispute settlement consultations with China at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for China’s auto and auto parts export subsidies. Once again, the Obama Administration has proven that it is dedicated to fairness in our international trading system. The Administration has put the resources necessary toward building a solid case against these trade distorting export subsidies that benefit Chinese manufacturers. When China joined the WTO, they agreed to eliminate all export subsidies. It’s time to hold them to that commitment. Our manufacturers are among the best in the world but for them to compete directly with their international competitors, we must ensure that they have a level playing field. The policies of our trading partners and international businesses must comply with global trade rules.” ###
9.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today made the following statement recognizing African Immigrant Health and Heritage Month. This year, the theme for African Immigrant Health and Heritage Month honors those African immigrants who have served in our Armed Forces: “I am proud that Governor Christine Gregoire has recognized September as African Immigrant Health and Heritage Month, highlighting the tremendous contributions millions of African immigrants have made to our nation. As the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have had the opportunity to see firsthand the contributions that African immigrants make to our national security. Their commitment, courage and honor are commendable, and we should take this month to remember and appreciate all that these fine men and women have done for our nation. “It is also imperative that we use African Immigrant Health and Heritage Month to bring attention to the health challenges this community currently faces. In addition to infectious diseases, African immigrants are generally vulnerable to chronic illnesses such as coronary artery disease, diabetes, hypertension, and cancer. By raising awareness, we can improve health services and networks to confront health disparities, serve the African immigrant population in a comprehensive way, and promote lifesaving preventative measures.” ###
9.12.2012	Tonight, I was thrilled to hear Jason will be released. The Granada appeals court has annulled Jason’s case and ordered his release. For too long, Jason has been languishing behind bars as the result of a flawed conviction. I am extremely pleased to hear that the situation will soon be rectified when the release orders are carried out. I look forward to seeing Jason released from prison and on his way home shortly.
9.11.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in observance of the 11th anniversary of the September 11th attack: “Today marks the 11th anniversary of the September 11th attacks on the United States. As we reflect on this tragic day in our history, my thoughts and prayers are with the innocent Americans who died, the heroic first responders who sacrificed their lives to save others, and the families who lost loved ones as a result of the senseless acts. “This anniversary also serves as a reminder of the perils our nation still faces from terrorists. Our brave men and women in the Armed Services continue to fight to protect and secure our country from these threats. We must honor and recognize their sacrifice and hard work.”
8.16.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement on Jason Puracal's hearing in Nicaragua, that began today. share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement on Jason Puracal's appeal hearing that began today in Nicaragua,: “In August 2011, American citizen Jason Puracal was convicted of drug trafficking, money laundering, and organized crime. I am deeply concerned about the clear flaws in the prosecution of Jason’s case and his deteriorating condition. I’m not the only one paying attention. Jason’s situation has generated increasing international attention including a report by the United Nations, a congressional letter to President Ortega from a group of 43 lawmakers, and a petition made up of hundreds of family and friends in the US. “My heart goes out to Jason’s family as we continue to fight for Jason to get a chance at a fair trial. Continued vigilance for respect of international law in Jason’s case and awareness of Jason’s circumstances are vital as we urge the Nicaraguans to reach a just resolution. Unfortunately, Jason’s appeal has faced continual delays and I would urge Nicaraguan authorities as the hearings start today to ensure his appeal is heard in an impartial manner. Despite the injustice of Jason’s original trial, I am hopeful that a fair ruling can be achieved in his appeal.” ###
8.7.2012	Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta and the Office of Economic Adjustment (OEA) today announced the approval of a $5.7 million grant for the City of Lakewood to improve the Freedom Bridge overpass near the Madigan Army Medical Center Gate to alleviate congestion and improve public safety along the Berkeley street corridor. share: f t Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta and the Office of Economic Adjustment (OEA) has announced the approval of a $5.7 million grant for the City of Lakewood to improve the Freedom Bridge overpass near the Madigan Army Medical Center Gate to alleviate congestion and improve public safety along the Berkeley street corridor. Improvements will include an additional eastbound ramp to the bridge, a second left turn lane to the I-5 southbound off-ramp, upgrades to traffic signs and additional pedestrian facilities for increased public safety. Funding for the project is provided under the Department of Defense and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011 and will be completed as a joint effort between the State of Washington Department of Transportation, the City of Lakewood and the Command at Joint Base Lewis-McChord. "Knowing that the DOD recognizes how critical investments are to addressing these issues affirms its commitment to this community and to the people affected by the immense growth on and around the base," said Congressman Smith. "I'm proud to have been a part of the efforts to secure this funding and look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure proper coordination so the improvements can be completed within a timely manner. Making sure we have the infrastructure in place to improve access and ease congestion around Madigan Gate and I-5 continues to be at the top of our agenda." "These necessary improvements will benefit everyone because they will increase safety and help alleviate congestion," said Pierce County Executive Pat McCarthy, a co-chair of the South Sound Military and Communities Partnership (SSMCP). "This is another success for the Partnership's collaboration of communities with the Department of Defense to serve our service members, veterans and neighbors. I look forward to working with the City of Lakewood and the Washington State Department of Transportation to get these critical projects moving." "The residents of the South Sound are very pleased the DoD and OEA have provided $5.7M in critical access and improved traffic flow project funding along the I-5 Corridor," said Mayor Doug Richardson. "WSDOT and the City of Lakewood worked together as members of the SSMCP to apply for these vital infrastructure dollars and they will provide substantial steps forward in addressing congestion and safety in the South Sound region. Earlier this year, South Sound stakeholders were successful in securing nearly $7 million in the Washington State budget for Interchange Justifications Reports (IJR) to examine potential impacts from Marvin Road in Thurston County to SR 512 in Pierce County. Without these studies, securing federal funds for this project would not have been possible. ###
8.3.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement regarding passage of legislation in the House and Senate extending expiring provisions of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) implementing technical corrections to the textile provisions of the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR) and renewing expiring sanctions on Burma: share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement regarding passage of legislation in the House and Senate extending expiring provisions of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) implementing technical corrections to the textile provisions of the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR) and renewing expiring sanctions on Burma: “This legislation is significant step in boosting our trade and investment ties with Africa and Central America while supporting job growth in the United States. “AGOA is the cornerstone of our trade policy with sub-Saharan Africa and underscores our commitment to sustainable development in the region. This bill extends the third country fabric provision that is crucial to the sustainability of Africa’s textile and apparel industry, aiding in the continued success of the AGOA program. It also makes the world’s newest country, the Republic of South Sudan eligible to participate in AGOA. “With the corrections and modifications to the rules of origin for textile and apparel products, CAFTA will help create American jobs and improve trade integration by encouraging greater use of U.S. inputs in CAFTA-DR countries. “While Burma has made progress on critical reforms over the past year, more must be done. Extending the President’s authority to ban imports from the country will encourage further action, particularly with regard to respect for human rights. “I’m pleased at the bi-partisan support for passage of this legislation. I will work with my colleagues to ensure we continue to advance policies that support and strengthen our domestic economy while strengthening and expanding critical trade relationships with countries around the world.” ###
7.26.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, has been chosen as a 2012 Best of Congress Award recipient by Corporate Voices for Working Families and Working Mother Media for his demonstrated leadership on and support of policies that create opportunities and improve the quality of life for working Americans and their families. share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, has been chosen as a 2012 Best of Congress Award recipient by Corporate Voices for Working Families and Working Mother Media for his demonstrated leadership on and support of policies that create opportunities and improve the quality of life for working Americans and their families. Winning Members of Congress were chosen by the Best of Congress Steering Committee based on their achievements, voting records, office policies and advocacy efforts to advance economically sound policies that support the following issues: Workplace Flexibility, Family Economic Stability, Work and Family balance and Workforce Readiness. “All people should have the opportunity to work and still be there to meet their family’s needs,” said Congressman Smith. “Policies that support the balance between work and family are critical to maintaining a healthy quality of life for all Americans and to enhancing productivity in the workplace.” Notable working-family friendly policies sponsored and supported by Congressman Smith include: H.R. 6046 – Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act of 2012 – Ensures equality of military and veteran benefits for all military spouses. H.R. 687 - Military Spouses Employment Act - Gives tax incentives to employers for hiring spouses of active duty members. H.R. 865 - Veteran Employment Transition Act of 2011- Increases the eligibility of veterans to receive the Work Opportunity Tax Credit H.R.1519 - Paycheck Fairness Act - Amends the portion of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA) known as the Equal Pay Act to revise remedies for, enforcement of, and exceptions to prohibitions against sex discrimination in the payment of wages. H.R. 2364 - Family and Medical Leave Inclusion Act - Amends the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to provide for employee leave to care for a domestic partner or his or her child, parent-in-law, adult child, sibling, grandparent, grandchild, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law (as well as for a spouse, child, or parent), if such person has a serious health condition. H.R. 1537 - Uniting American Families Act of 2011 - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to include a "permanent partner" within the scope of such Act. The 2012 Best of Congress Winner profiles can be seen online at WorkingMother.com and will be included in the August/September issue of Working Mother magazine. For more information on Congressman Smith’s efforts on behalf of working families, visit www.AdamSmith.House.gov/AmericasWorkers. ###
7.25.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, will receive the 14th Annual Outstanding Legislator Award from the Association of the United States Army (AUSA) on Wednesday July 25, 2012. AUSA President Gen. Gordon R. Sullivan, USA, Ret. will present the award during the organization’s Capitol Hill ceremony. share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, will receive the 14th Annual Outstanding Legislator Award from the Association of the United States Army (AUSA) on Wednesday, July 25, 2012. AUSA President Gen. Gordon R. Sullivan, USA, Ret. will present the award during the organization’s Capitol Hill ceremony. Congressman Smith will receive the award for his advocacy on behalf of military personnel and their families. He is also being awarded for his efforts to improve efficiencies and the elimination of waste, fraud and abuse in the Department of Defense. Previous AUSA Outstanding Legislator Award recipients include Rep. Norm Dicks and Sen. Patty Murray. “It is an honor to work on behalf of the men and women of our military,” said Congressman Smith. “I thank the AUSA for this award and will continue my efforts to ensure our military has the resources it needs to fulfill its missions and to make sure our veterans and their families know their service is not taken for granted once they return home.” AUSA is a private, non-profit educational organization that supports America's Army - Active, National Guard, Reserve, Civilians, Retirees, Government Civilians, Wounded Warriors, Veterans, and family members. AUSA provides numerous Professional Development Opportunities at a variety of events both local and national. Since 1950, the Association of the United States Army has worked to support all aspects of national security while advancing the interests of America's Army and the men and women who serve. For more information on Congressman Smith’s efforts on behalf of the military, visit www.AdamSmith.House.gov/armedservices. ###
7.23.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement after Gov. Chris Gregoire announced Brigadier General Bret D. Daugherty as Adjutant General of the State of Washington. General Daugherty will replace Major General Timothy J. Lowenberg who is retiring after 44 years of military service: share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement after Gov. Chris Gregoire announced Brigadier General Bret D. Daugherty as Adjutant General of the State of Washington. General Daugherty will replace Major General Timothy J. Lowenberg who is retiring after 44 years of military service: “General Daugherty is a respected leader whose lifetime of service and background in military issues will allow him to serve the soldiers and airmen within the Washington National Guard well. He has proven his commitment to the training and development of our troops and will now use his skills to maintain the high quality of our state’s emergency preparedness. “I congratulate General Daugherty on his appointment and thank General Lowenberg for four decades of outstanding service to our state. I also look forward to working closely with General Daugherty within the coming months." ###
7.20.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the Armed Services Committee, made the following statement after the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee announced they are cosponsoring legislation to terminate Jackson-Vanik status for Russia and Moldova, allowing Permanent Normal Trade Relations to be granted. They expect to mark up the legislation next week. share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the Armed Services Committee, made the following statement after the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee announced they are cosponsoring legislation to terminate Jackson-Vanik status for Russia and Moldova, allowing Permanent Normal Trade Relations to be granted. They expect to mark up the legislation next week. "While this legislation removes Russia from the Jackson-Vanik amendment, I am pleased the leadership of the Ways and Means Committee has indicated they support including the Magnitsky legislation on human rights before it comes to the floor. The underlying bill promotes rule of law in Russia and addresses significant enforcement concerns, particularly on the protection of intellectual property rights and Russia’s compliance with WTO obligations. If Russia joins the WTO in the next few weeks as expected, passage of this legislation will mean growth for American industry and workers by taking advantage of reduction in barriers to U.S. exports from the beginning. "While this is a positive step forward for American job growth, I remain particularly concerned about Russian international engagement and the ongoing violence in Syria. Russia must continue to work diligenty with the international community to arrive at an acceptable solution to the humanitarian crisis." ###
6.28.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith has introduced the Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act of 2012, a bill designed to ensure equality for military and veteran benefits for all military spouses. “While the repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ was a tremendous step forward, there is more that can be done to ensure that the rights of all of our services members and their spouse, regardless of whether they are of the same-sex or opposite-sex as the service member, are protected,” said Ranking Member Adam Smith. “What this bill does is simple: if veterans or service members have a spouse of the same-sex, then their spouse will be afforded the same benefits as their heterosexual counterparts. Spouses of service members should not be prevented from receiving the benefits they have earned simply because they are the same sex as their partner. This discriminatory practice must come to an end.” Currently, the Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs are limited in what benefits may be made available to the spouses of same-sex couples. The Military Spouses Equal Treatment Act of 2012 remedies this discriminatory practice by changing the definition of spouse in the relevant sections of United States code to state: “an individual shall be considered a ‘spouse’ if the marriage of the individual is valid in the State in which the marriage was entered into or, in the case of a marriage entered into outside any State, if the marriage is valid in the place in which the marriage was entered into and the marriage could have been entered into in a State.” This change will require the Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs to recognize any marriage that has been recognized by a state or the District of Columbia and provide the same benefits to the spouses of all service members. Read the full text of the bill here.
6.28.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on the Supreme Court's decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act. share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on the Supreme Court's decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act: "I’m pleased the Supreme Court has upheld the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act. This law is the best available step forward for our health care system that is in dire need of reform. "The Affordable Care Act will help nearly 30 million uninsured Americans obtain health insurance and will cut our deficit by more than $1 trillion in the long-term with mechanisms in place to curb fraudulent and wasteful medical spending. It gives Americans the promise of better care by keeping health care and insurance providers accountable for the well being of their patients. The law has also established free preventative care and has empowered states to create new and more efficient methods to deliver the highest quality options for health care. "The problems with our current health care system will not disappear, and if we do not continue to make decisions in the best interest of all Americans, it will only get worse. I am disappointed that attorney generals across this country including Robert McKenna, decided to waste precious state dollars to fight expanding access to affordable and quality health care for all Americans instead of working to improve our broken health insurance system. Instead of challenging parts of the law that will only move us closer to ensuring all Americans have the health care they need, we should strengthen the provisions that increase efficiencies and decrease costs, and modify sections that would be most burdensome to Americans. "Maintaining our antiquated, inefficient health care system that has drained our economy and leaves millions without health care is no longer an option. Congress must now work to continue finding ways to improve our health care system by putting the health and well being of Americans first. "
6.28.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt. share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt: "Today, for the first time in history, the House of Representatives held a cabinet member in contempt of Congress. This vote achieved nothing, but was done to prove a political point. We are no closer to finding the truth of what happened in 2010, when a U.S. Border Patrol Agent was tragically killed using guns from a botched government operation. "I am disappointed my Republican colleagues felt it necessary to hold this vote, instead of addressing the real issue of investigating what went wrong, and how we can bring those responsible to justice." ###
6.25.2012	Congressman Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the Supreme Court's ruling on the Arizona immigration law: "While I am pleased with the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down key provisions of Arizona’s immigration law, the remaining provision makes it clear that more must be done to address critical issues within our immigration system. I am disappointed that the Supreme Court decided to uphold the "Show Me Your Papers" provision of Arizona's immigration law. Unfortunately, this provision allows local law enforcement to rely on racial profiling, and no individual should fear being unfairly questioned by authorities solely based on their appearance or the color of their skin. "However, the court's decision to strike down the remaining provisions that would have unjustly detained or punished innocent individuals, families and workers is an important step forward. Criminalizing unauthorized employment and allowing for warrantless arrests violates fundamental civil rights while failing to address the deeper flaws within our current immigration system. The court's ruling also makes it clear that it is the responsibility of the federal government, not states, to enforce immigration laws in this country. "Immigration enforcement should focus our limited resources on those who pose risk to our national security and public safety, rather than those who are actively contributing to our society. I will continue working with my colleagues and the Obama Administration on comprehensive immigration reform that addresses our national security and economic needs while protecting the civil and human rights that are paramount to maintaining equality of opportunity in America.” ###
6.25.2012	Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and U.S. Representatives Norm Dicks (R-WA-06) and Adam Smith (D-WA-09) announced that the U.S. Department of Defense’s Office of Economic Adjustment (OEA) will award two grants totaling $46,485,468 to the Clover Park School District (CPSD), in Lakewood, to replace two elementary schools on Joint Base Lewis-McChord. According to OEA, these awards will remedy the capacity and/or facility condition deficiencies that placed Hillside and Carter Lake Elementary Schools as the second and fifth schools on the July 2011 Deputy Secretary of Defense “Public Schools on Military Installations Priority List”. These awards are from the $500 million program authorized by Section 8109 of Public Law 112-10, the DoD and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011, and Section 8118 of Public Law 112-74, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012, to construct, renovate, repair or expand public schools located on military installations. OEA, in making these funds available, must give priority consideration to those military installations with schools having the most serious capacity or facility condition deficiencies, as determined by the Priority List. A multi-disciplined Federal Evaluation Team, with membership from the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, the Military Services, U.S. Department of Education, and the Office of Economic Adjustment, conducted a review of these projects to ensure these awards were appropriate for the noted capacity and facility deficiencies. “This is great news for the schools and for the entire JBLM community,” said Senator Patty Murray. “This is a critical investment in the public school system for the base. These grants will help ensure that the children of our servicemembers have a top-notch school facilities.” “This new investment for Joint Base Lewis-McChord is great news for military families and their children in school,” said Senator Maria Cantwell. “The new facilities for Hillside and Carter Lake Elementary schools will ensure that children at JBLM have the tools they need to excel. I was proud to join Representatives Norm Dicks and Adam Smith, and Senator Patty Murray in supporting this critical investment.” “The release of these funds today allows for the replacement of the Hillside and Carter Lake schools, which will be followed in succeeding years by the reconstruction of four more schools that the Army has determined are substandard. This is great progress,” said Representative Norm Dicks, ranking Democratic Member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "This is an overdue and critical start for the replacement of two of the five aging schools at JBLM," said Representative Adam Smith, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee. "All students in our community deserve the highest quality education and first-rate facilities. This money will ensure the children at JBLM receive both." ###
6.15.2012	Congressman Smith (WA-09 ) made the following statement on the decision by the Obama Administration to protect DREAM-eligible youth from deportation: "The President's announcement today provides relief for undocumented individuals and is a significant step in ensuring we apply our immigration laws fairly. Often, these children were brought here through no choice of their own. Now, as young adults, they pose no threat to our national security or public safety, and deserve a chance to continue contributing to society and to work at achieving their American dream. "I commend the President for his action today, but the deferred relief extended to these young adults is only temporary. I urge my colleagues in Congress to pass the DREAM Act into law and move forward with comprehensive immigration reform to ensure we provide a suitable path to citizenship and equal opportunity for those who have only known this country as their home." ###
6.14.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made this statement following President Obama’s remarks on the economy: “Recent discussions about the economy outlined today reflect sharp contrasts in visions for our economic future. “Republicans have historically favored a top-down, trickle-down approach to economic recovery and growth that relies heavily upon indiscriminately cutting taxes, slashing regulatory safeguards, and trusting corporations to do what is necessary for the well-being of Americans. This approach has been tried time and again, most recently during the last Bush Administration, and has simply not worked. As a result, our country suffered a financial system breakdown and continues to suffer from the effects of a deep and painful economic recession that has hurt millions of American families. “Now, Republicans are proposing we try this failed approach again. Our country needs a recovery that is focused on and driven by the middle class. Only when American families are once again able to purchase what they need and are able to more fully participate in the demand-based economy, will we see a strengthening of our country. “To achieve this, sound public policies that support individuals and enable them to achieve more from their work are necessary. Businesses must be encouraged to hire, innovate, and remain globally competitive so they can create opportunities for workers to be hired into well-paying and rewarding jobs. The only way this can happen is through policies that enable us to enact fair and efficient tax reform, improve our transportation infrastructure, education and worker training systems, promote the sale of U.S. products and services abroad, and ensure that economic security and fairness remain our top priorities.” ###
6.1.2012	– House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith recently concluded a trip to Kenya to assess issues surrounding security, particularly progress in joint U.S.-Kenyan efforts to combat the terrorist organizations Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) and Al Shabaab. share: f t House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith recently concluded a trip to Kenya to assess issues surrounding security, particularly progress in joint U.S.-Kenyan efforts to combat the terrorist organizations al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) and al-Shabaab. “The United States and Kenya have a shared value in democracy, and face common threats in al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and al-Shabaab,” said Ranking Member Smith. “By working together, we can strengthen the institutions of governance here, and work to eliminate the external factors that pose a threat to Kenya as well as to the United States. The challenges the Kenyan people face are complex, but the leadership here is sound, and the resolve of the people is strong. I met with a wide range of citizens and leaders from across Kenya, and their commitment and dedication to improving the quality of life of and security for the Kenyan people is unquestionable.” Al-Shabaab, a Somalia-based militant Islamist group, has been terrorizing the people of Somali and the region for years and was formally recognized as part of al-Qaeda in 2012. The group controls large swathes of land in southern parts of Somali and continues to recruit and orchestrate attacks within Kenya and throughout the region. Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula is a similar violent extremist organization, primarily active in Yemen and Saudi Arabia, but also aggressively working to expand its operations in Somali and the Horn of Africa. Together, these two groups represent a threat to the United States, and the stability of the entire region. To help provide for the security and stability of Kenya – a burgeoning democracy and growing economy - the United States provides equipment and training to Kenyan security forces, both civilian and military, and actively promotes economic development as a means to support continue progress. According to the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. assistance strategy is built around five broad objectives: advancing shared democratic values, human rights, and good governance; fighting disease and improving healthcare; fighting poverty and promoting private sector-led prosperity; cooperating to fight insecurity and terrorism; and collaborating to foster peace and stability in East Africa. As co-chair of the effective foreign assistance caucus, part of Smith’s trip also focused on USAID and development projects, which help promote long-term stability. For example, Smith visited with Feed the Future, a USAID program designed to combat global hunger and promote food security, where the group was working to develop hybrid corn and drought tolerant sorghum, a type of grass that grows in harsh environments and can serve as a stable source of food. On the trip, Smith met with key leaders including the Minister of Defense, Mohamed Yusuf Haji, and business and trade groups, such as the Kenya Private Sector Alliance, and Kenya Association of Manufacturers. Other meetings included the Security and Defense Cooperation, Members of Parliament, including Speaker Kenneth Marende, women, youth, religious, and peace groups to discuss preparations for Kenya’s 2013 election, prospects for instability, and key issues that will influence prospects for peace. ### ###
6.1.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member, Congressman Adam Smith, recently concluded an official trip to Uganda to assess international efforts to root out Joseph Kony and the Lords Resistant Army (LRA), a destructive and ruthless rebel group responsible for widespread human rights abuses in the region. share: f t House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member, Congressman Adam Smith, recently concluded an official trip to Uganda to assess international efforts to root out Joseph Kony and the Lords Resistant Army (LRA), a destructive and ruthless rebel group responsible for widespread human rights abuses in the region. “I applaud the Ugandans for their efforts to bring Joseph Kony and the LRA to justice and I am encouraged by the progress being made by the international coalition that is committed to restoring peace and stability in the region,” said Ranking Member Adam Smith. “Kony and the LRA have killed thousands, and destroyed the lives of thousands more and the efforts to advise, train and assist local forces have helped our partners in Central Africa make real progress in ridding themselves of this murderous group. While the LRA is just one part of a larger problem in the region, eliminating it would prove to be a powerful step in the right direction for Uganda, and the entire region.” The Lords Resistance Army, led by Joseph Kony, an internationally wanted terrorist, originated in Uganda in the 1980s with the goal of overthrowing the Ugandan government, but has since expanded its deadly reach to a number of African countries, such as the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Central African Republic. The LRA has committed widespread human rights violations, including torture, slavery, rape, the abduction of civilians, the use of child soldiers, and other brutal abuses, resulting in a severe humanitarian crisis. Eliminating the LRA would be a positive step in the right direction and would allow our work with the Ugandan people to grow and serve as a template to reduce ungoverned areas and promote stability, security and prosperity in the region. In particular, the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, Central African Republic and South Sudan continue to be victimized by the LRA and similar groups that rape, kill, pillage and displace people from their homes. The LRA is one piece of a larger problem in central Africa, and success in Uganda could provide a model to support similar efforts throughout the region. To address this problem, in the Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act, Ranking Member Adam Smith authored a provision that requires the President to improve strategic planning and more effectively integrate efforts to deny safe havens to terrorist organizations and strengthen at-risk states as they seek to confront challenges posed by al-Qaeda and its violent extremist affiliates (Section 1032, pg. 275). Additionally, in October of last year President Obama sent a small number of U.S. troops to Central Africa tasked with assisting in removing Joseph Kony and other senior leaders of the LRA from the battlefield. Ranking Member Smith’s trip was designed to assess the progress made in this effort, and meet with local leaders, stakeholders and citizens to gain a stronger understand of the situation on the ground. As co-chair of the effective foreign assistance caucus, part of Smith’s trip also focused on USAID and development projects. For example, Smith visited with the Northern Uganda Development of Enhanced Local Governance, Infrastructure, and Livelihoods (NUDEIL) program and CARE's Village Savings and Loan Program. The two day trip to Uganda included meetings with the President, Yoweri Museveni, U.S. AFRICOM Commander General Ham, U.S. Ambassador to Uganda, Jerry Lanier, and other senior U.S. and international officials. The trip also included stops at development project sites, health centers, meetings with business and university leaders and local civic and political leaders.
6.1.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), made the following statement today in celebration of LGBT Pride month, which is celebrated during the month of June: “This June, we celebrate our lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender communities and recognize their resilience in the pursuit of complete equality under the law. This is an important time in the history of our country’s LGBT community. While we’ve made great strides toward full marriage equality, the awareness and protection of bullied teens, and aggressive prosecution of bias-based crimes, there is still much more to do to ensure every individual is granted equal and fair treatment within their community. “The LGBT community’s pursuit of liberty reminds us that we all have a stake in protecting the equal rights and freedom of every person in our nation. While we celebrate our diversity this June, I hope we also take time to think about how we continue moving forward in making all parts of the American dream everyone’s reality.” ###
5.21.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), released the following statement clarifying the intent and impact of the Thornberry-Smith amendment in the NDAA. share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), released the following statement clarifying the intent and impact of the Thornberry-Smith amendment in the NDAA: “Unfortunately, recent articles have misinterpreted the intent and impact of the Thornberry-Smith amendment in the NDAA. This amendment is intended to ensure that the US government can get factual information out in a timely manner to counter extremist misinformation and propaganda. It does not and is not in any way intended to ‘legalize the use of propaganda on American audiences’ and, in fact, specifically ensures that the content to be rebroadcast or republished domestically by the Department of State and the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG) shall not influence public opinion in the US. It clearly states, no funds authorized to be appropriated to State Department or BBG for any activity shall be used to influence public opinion. “The language of the legislation states very clearly that no funds authorized to be appropriated to the Department of State or the BBG shall be used to influence public opinion in the United States. Rather, this law allows for timely release of accurate and unbiased information that has been produced by the Department of State and BBG and developed for foreign audiences to be rebroadcast or republished, upon request, here in the US. “ Read the full amendment text. ###
5.18.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement after the House passed the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act. share: f t Washington D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement after the House passed the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act: “I want to thank Chairman McKeon, all members of the House of Representatives and staff for their hard work on this important piece of legislation. “Overall, this bill prioritizes our troops deployed in Afghanistan and around the world by ensuring that they have the tools and resources they need to do their job and protect national security. It also provides our troops and their families with the benefits and support that they deserve, including a 1.6 percent pay increase. “It continues to make counterterrorism a priority and makes significant investments in all branches of our Armed Services, ensuring that our military is prepared to meet the threats of today as well as the future. It supports our troops as they continue to fight overseas, invests in new technologies for the future, and protects vital military equipment production capacity here at home. “However, I am troubled by the language throughout the bill that either relies too much on a large and extended combat mission in the case of Afghanistan or, simply, overly confrontational language in the cases of Russia, North Korea, Iran, and China, to name a few. “In many cases, the only thing preventing me from voting against this bill is the qualifying language. For example, on Afghanistan, the bill requires 68,000 troops through the end of 2014 but then says “if necessary.” On Iran, it calls for all avenues to be used including military force, but again, only "if necessary." “The language on Russia is particularly troubling. Much of the rhetoric during debate on this bill echoed sentiments from 1982, when we were at the height of the Cold War. We are no longer in the Cold War, and we should not be treating Russia like an enemy. “On North Korea, the confrontational language went so far as to include a study that suggests deploying tactical nuclear weapons to the region. This would be dangerous and reckless and could destabilize the entire region. “If this were binding language, I would have to vote against this bill. Luckily, it is simply a statement of policy by the majority -- policies that I strongly disagree with. “Additionally, given the size of our debt and deficit and growing budgetary pressures, I am concerned the bill supports an overall defense budget that is roughly $8 billion over the Budget Control Act. Congress made a commitment to get our budget under control, and I fully expect that the Senate will honor the Budget Control Act number. “The bill also includes provisions that discriminate against gay and lesbian service members. For years, many members of our Armed Services had to hide who they were to fight for the country they love, and I am strongly opposed to efforts that seek to turn back the clock on the progress we have made in the name of equality. “The bill also takes a big step back on energy, by ending support for many kinds of alternative fuels which undermine our national security policy. Our nation must decrease, if not eliminate, its reliance on imported fuels and maintain our leadership in this area. China and many other nations are seeking to become leaders in this area, and the committee’s actions will set us back and risk our leadership in this arena. “Again, I supported his bill in its current form because we must support our troops while they are in harm’s way. We must ensure that they have the tools and resources they need to ensure national security and accomplish missions we ask of them. However, there is still much more work to be done to address many of the issues with this bill. I look forward to reviewing the Senate’s version of this bill and working with my colleagues here in the House to make sure we send the President a final bill that meets the high standards of the United States Armed Services.” ###
5.10.2012	Congressman Smith (WA-09) made the following statement regarding the letter sent to President Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua asking for improved detainee conditions and an independent investigation of Jason Puracal's case: “Jason Puracal, an American citizen, is being held in a Nicaraguan prison in deplorable conditions. He shares a cell with eight other men where there is no running water and a hole in the ground serves as a sink, shower, dishwashing area, and disturbingly, a toilet. “After nearly 9 months of being detained and a drawn out trial, Mr. Puracal was convicted and sentenced to 22 years in prison. From information I’ve received from his lawyers, Mr. Puracal's conviction was based on a trial that was clearly flawed and conducted in what the State Department has referred to as a corrupt Nicaraguan judicial system. Tellingly, the California Innocence Project has adopted his case – they pick just ten each year – and conclude “there is strong evidence of factual innocence.” “Given these circumstances, I am urging President Ortega to immediately provide Mr. Puracal improved detention conditions and I'm asking him to request his prosecutors conduct an independent review of Mr. Puracal’s case as it is currently on appeal. Based on the assessment we have received from Mr. Puracal’s legal team and independent international legal experts that have reviewed the case, there is a compelling need for a thorough and objective prosecutorial review of Mr. Puracal’s case to determine his innocence under Nicaraguan law. "The manner in which Mr. Puracal's case has been handled is incredibly unsettling. My hope is that this letter and our efforts will lead to a thorough independent investigation and will ensure the conditions under which Mr. Puracal is currently being held are improved to come into full accordance with standards set by international law."
5.9.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement on the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank: "I’m pleased my colleagues were able to reach an agreement to reauthorize and raise the lending limits for the Export-Import Bank of the United States (Ex-Im). Ex-Im provides critical financing to promote American exports and keeps them competitive within the global marketplace. Providing American manufacturers the resources they need to meet demand for U.S. exports is one of our top priorities for putting our economy back on track – nearly 95 percent of the world’s consumers live outside the U.S. Extending support to the Ex-Im Bank is critical to maintaining and creating jobs in Washington State and around the country. Ex-Im lending supports exporters in aerospace, clean technology, global health, wine, and other agricultural industries. "Over the past three years, the Ex-Im Bank has provided more than $30 billion in disbursements to Washington State and more than $11 billion in capital to businesses in the 9th District. And, the majority of companies receiving loans were small businesses. These loans have supported more than $68 billion in export sales in our state and have helped our local businesses complete transactions, create and sustain jobs that are vital to the health of our local and national economies."
5.2.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in recognition of Jewish American Heritage Month: “This May, we celebrate the seventh annual Jewish American History Month and honor the vast contributions Jewish Americans have made to our country. Overcoming prejudice in search of the freedom to practice their faith, Jewish Americans have a history that encourages and inspires us all to work towards making the world a more just and equitable place. "For more than 350 years, Jewish Americans have led innovation in academia, science, business, and public service that have advanced our society to new heights. This month, I hope we will all honor their achievements and pay tribute to their extraordinary legacy.” ###
4.13.2012	Secretary of the Navy Ray Maybus announced today that in honor of the contributions and support Washington state has given the military, one of the next five Virginia-class attack submarines will be named the USS Washington (SSN 787). The submarine will be the third ship to bear the state’s name. The other four Virginia-class attack submarines will be named the USS Illinois (SSN 786), USS Colorado (SSN 788), USS Indiana (SSN 786) and USS South Dakota (SSN 790). The five states have not had a ship named for them in 49 years or longer. “This is an exceptional way to recognize the men and women in Washington state who serve our country and to acknowledge the communities surrounding the base that support them in various ways,” said Congressman Smith. “I appreciate that the Navy is honoring us in this way.” “Each of these five states serve as home to military bases that support our national defense and provide men and women that volunteer to serve their country,” said Secretary Mabus. “I look forward to these submarines joining the fleet and representing these great states around the world.” These next-generation attack submarines will provide the Navy with the capabilities required to maintain the nation's undersea supremacy well into the 21st century. They will have enhanced stealth, sophisticated surveillance capabilities and special warfare enhancements that will enable them to meet the Navy's multi-mission requirements. For more information about the Virginia-class attack submarine, visit http://www.navy.mil/.
4.2.2012	On Tuesday, April 10, Rep. Adam Smith will host U.S. Service Academy Night at Columbia Junior High School in Fife. Attendees will have the opportunity to learn more about obtaining a Congressional Nomination to one of the United States Service Academies, and meet field representatives from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and U.S. Coast Guard Academy. This informational event is recommended for all high school and middle school students who reside in Washington State’s 9th Congressional District. Who: Representatives of U.S. Service Academies, interested students, and parents. What: Informational meeting on U.S. Service Academies Where: Columbia Junior High School 2901 54th Ave East Fife, WA 98424 When: Tuesday, April 10, 2012 from 6:30 p.m. – 8:00 p.m Learn more about the U.S. Service Academy Nominations. ###
3.23.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement following today’s meeting with Army leaders at Joint Base Lewis-McChord. share: f t House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement following today’s meeting with Army leaders at Joint Base Lewis-McChord: “I would like to thank the members of the Army’s senior leadership who arranged today’s meeting to discuss incidents that have occurred involving soldiers from Joint Base Lewis-McChord. Their willingness to address urgent concerns that are affecting the well-being of our troops, their safety abroad and ability to successfully carry out their missions is an important step forward in supporting our men and women who serve. It is also critical to preventing future episodes that place the lives of our soldiers and civilians in jeopardy. “I and other members of the delegation pressed General Austin to understand what policies are currently in place or need to be put in place to make sure every soldier who is living with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder or suffering from Traumatic Brain Injuries gets the treatment he or she needs. These are difficult jobs with high stress levels, and the issues we see here are ones we see at every large base in our country. Our focus is on making sure there is a comprehensive plan to detect these injuries and disorders and do more to ensure that every soldier who needs treatment gets it. I will continue to closely monitor this issue to make sure all our military personnel receive the care they deserve. “I also want to reiterate that the killing of 17 innocent civilians in Afghanistan resulted from the actions of one individual and is not a reflection of the character of our Armed Forces nor does it reflect upon the leadership at JBLM. I have full confidence that the leadership of this base and our Armed Forces will continue to make decisions that are in the best interest of our troops while continuing to meet our national security objectives. “I look forward to discussing next steps and to working with the Army to implement the changes and policies discussed today in the most timely and effective manner.” ###
3.22.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in response to the Department of Interior’s announcement that it would move forward in awarding 17 grants totaling $2.9 million to preserve and interpret confinement sites around the country where more than 120,000 Japanese Americans were detained during World War II share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in response to the Department of Interior’s announcement that it would move forward in awarding 17 grants totaling $2.9 million to preserve and interpret confinement sites around the country where more than 120,000 Japanese Americans were detained during World War II: “I’m pleased the Department of Interior is dedicated to preserving the historic confinement sites where thousands of Japanese Americans were unjustly held during World War II. These sites will safeguard an important part of our country’s history and will ensure the stories of Japanese Americans will never be forgotten. “In the face of fear and uncertainty, these sites remind us how important it is to protect the civil liberties of every individual in our country, at all times. I commend the Department on their decision to move forward.” Congressman Smith is a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), comprised of Members of Congress who have a strong dedication to promoting the well-being of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community. The following projects from applicants in Washington State will receive awards: *Project: “Honoring a Legacy, Forging a Future: Preserving the Stories and Collections of World War II Veterans and Internees” Applicant: Wing Luke Memorial Foundation. (Wing Luke Museum of the Asian Pacific American Experience), Seattle, WA Award: $170,833 Site: Minidoka National Historic Site, Jerome County, ID *Project: “Enhancing Access to Heart Mountain Collections at Washington State University” Applicant: Washington State University, Pullman, WA Award: $77,769 Site: Heart Mountain Relocation Center, Park County, WY *Project: “Japanese American Confinement Sites Encyclopedia-Phase II” Applicant: Densho, Seattle, WA Award: $362,450 Sites: Multiple ###
3.12.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in response to the U.S. Trade Representative’s (USTR) announcement that the United States prevailed in a dispute before the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Appellate Body, which rejected European Union (EU) claims and found that substantial trade-distorting subsidies were not provided to The Boeing Company. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C.- Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in response to the U.S. Trade Representative’s (USTR) announcement that the United States prevailed in a dispute before the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Appellate Body, which rejected European Union (EU) claims and found that substantial trade-distorting subsidies were not provided to The Boeing Company: “I was happy to hear that the World Trade Organization appellate ruling confirmed what we in the Northwest have known: that the allegations against the United States of subsidizing the aircraft industry in our nation and in Washington State were largely unfounded. It also confirms that despite an unlevel playing field where Airbus has received significant subsidies from the European Union, Boeing has remained internationally competitive and our aerospace workers continue to produce at the highest quality products in the industry. “The ruling that many of our nation’s federal, state, and local governments’ efforts did not conflict with WTO policy is a victory for workers in Washington State and for the American aerospace industry. I will continue working with the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative to make sure we respond appropriately to the Appellate Body’s report and ensure a fair deal for American workers and businesses.” ###
3.8.2012	The Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), and Senator Mark Udall (CO), a member of the Senate Armed Services and Intelligence committees, unveiled legislation at a press conference today to ensure that any individual detained on U.S. soil under the Authorization of Military Force (AUMF) has access to due process and the federal court system. share: f t Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), and Senator Mark Udall (CO), a member of the Senate Armed Services and Intelligence committees, unveiled legislation (summary) at a press conference today to ensure that any individual detained on U.S. soil under the Authorization of Military Force (AUMF) has access to due process and the federal court system. The bills also prohibit military commissions and indefinite detention for individuals detained in the United States and affirms that any trial proceedings “shall have all the due process as provided for under the Constitution.” In unveiling their companion bills, Smith and Udall made the following joint statement: “Current law gives the executive branch too much power. By ensuring all due process rights enshrined in the Constitution, our legislation protects civil rights and ensures national security. The bills clarify that the only options for anyone detained in the United States pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) are Article III courts (federal) and state courts. They prohibit military commissions and indefinite detention. “In addition to protecting civil liberties, these bills strengthen one of our strongest assets in trying suspected terrorists: Article III courts and domestic law enforcement. Federal courts have a proven track record of success: Over 400 defendants charged with crimes related to international terrorism have been successfully convicted in the United States since 9/11. “Additionally, our civilian law enforcement also has a proven track record of success as demonstrated by the recent mandatory life sentence received by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the “underwear bomber.” This conviction builds on a history of success. In fact, more than 300 individuals convicted of crimes related to international terrorism are currently incarcerated in federal prisons within the United States with no escapes or retaliatory attack. “While some claim we should shy away using a court system that has been a model for the world for more than 200 years, we believe that we should embrace it. We should not fear our Constitution. We should embrace it.” ###
3.8.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement today in celebration of International Women's Day. share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement today in celebration of International Women's Day: “Today, we celebrate International Women’s Day by recognizing the achievements women have made as leaders in our communities and across the globe. Throughout history, women have played a vital role in securing the civil rights and liberties of all people, and though it is sometimes unfairly overlooked, we all continue to benefit from their commitment to a more just and equal society where women have the opportunity to reach their highest potential. "Women everywhere continue to face numerous obstacles in achieving full political, economic, and social equality. But with the strides they’ve attained over the past century, crucial progress has and will continue to be made. We must all continue working toward a society where no person is denied their right to an education, access to healthcare, or economic opportunity because of their gender. “As we celebrate today and during Women’s History Month this March, we have an opportunity to reaffirm our dedication to the advancement and empowerment of women worldwide. We also reiterate our commitment to leveling the playing field to ensure paths of leadership for women and girls are meaningfully paved.” ###
3.6.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement today on the passing of Congressman Donald Payne of New Jersey: “Congressman Donald Payne was an outspoken advocate for the civil liberties of all people. He worked tirelessly representing his constituents as the first African-American to serve from New Jersey and as the former Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus. “I was honored to serve with Congressman Payne during his time as the highest ranking Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights where we worked together to find solutions to the global health challenges being tackled in Washington state such as the HIV/AIDS epidemic and better measures to treat and put a stop to widespread preventable diseases like tuberculosis and malaria. Don was a humanitarian and his commitment to improving the lives of those who were most in need will leave an indelible mark on our world. “Congressman Payne will be sorely missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time.” ###
3.2.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement today after Congressman Norm Dicks announced he would not seek re-election to Congress this year. share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement today after Congressman Norm Dicks announced he would not seek re-election to Congress this year: “For 36 years, Norm Dicks has been a champion for the people of Washington State. He has been one of the most influential and effective members of Congress and has worked on a range of issues with boundless energy. Norm has worked tirelessly to support programs that helped build vital relationships for our community and he’s been an advocate for policies that protect the natural resources and habitat within the Puget Sound. Through his work on behalf of our military and their families, Norm has done his best to ensure our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines have the resources and support they need to maintain our national security and are esteemed for their service to our country. “Since I began my career in Congress, Norm has also been a great mentor and close friend. As our districts share a border, we’ve worked together on issues that have significantly impacted our economy and the well being of the people living in the South Sound. We’ve partnered to secure funds for school reconstruction on Joint Base Lewis-McChord, to protect the Green River Valley and strengthen the Howard Hanson Dam, and we’ve worked to strengthen the industrial base in the Pacific Northwest. “I will greatly miss working with Norm as a member of the Washington State Delegation. I thank him for his service, his partnership and for the contributions he has made to our community and to our country. I wish him and his family the very best as he moves into the next stage of his life.” ###
2.28.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today made the following statement in response to the Executive Order signed by President Obama establishing the Interagency Trade Enforcement Center (ITEC): “The creation of an Interagency Trade Enforcement Center is an important step forward toward ensuring that our trading partners are held accountable when they violate international agreements and, importantly enabling American workers to compete fairly in the global marketplace. “Coordinating the relevant agencies and increasing resources to investigate unfair trade practices by our competitors is critical to our economy’s growth and is essential to putting more Americans back to work. As the fourth largest exporter in the country, we must level the playing field for Washington State products that face unfair trade practices and subsidies by foreign countries. “I’m pleased the Administration has shown a real commitment to American economic growth and I am confident the Enforcement Center will continue to help secure economic prosperity and advance American interests.”
2.16.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement after Umar Farouk AbdulMutallab received a life sentence in a federal courtroom this afternoon. share: f t House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement after Umar Farouk AbdulMutallab received a life sentence in a federal courtroom this afternoon: “The life sentence given to Umar Farouk AbdulMutallab by a federal court in Detroit this afternoon demonstrations that our federal court system is fully capable of bringing terrorist to justice. It is now clear, without a doubt, that the terrorist who sought kill innocent Americans will spend the rest of his life behind bars and far, far away from the battle field. “I agree with Attorney General Holder that ‘today's sentence once again underscores the effectiveness of the criminal justice system in both incapacitating terrorists and gathering valuable intelligence from them.’ I applaud our domestic law enforcement agencies who played an active role in apprehending AbdulMutallab and bringing him to justice." ###
2.15.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today made the following statement after becoming one of 11 new members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus. share: f t Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today made the following statement after becoming one of 11 new members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus: "I am honored to have the opportunity to serve on the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC). My district has strong and active Asian American and Pacific Islander communities and I’m proud to represent them as one of the newest CAPAC members. “I look forward to working with my peers on the caucus to continue addressing the unique issues facing the Asian American and Pacific Islander communities and to ensure their voices are heard." Washington State’s 9th district is home to more than 60,000 Asian Americans, Pacific Islanders and people of Asian descent. Thirty-three percent of the foreign languages spoken by residents of the 9th district are Asian Pacific. The Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus is comprised of Members of Congress of Asian and Pacific Islander descent and members who have a strong dedication to promoting the well-being of the Asian American and Pacific Islander communities. For more information on CAPAC, visit http://capac.chu.house.gov/. ###
2.13.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement after the release of the FY2013 Department of Defense Budget: “Earlier this year, the President released the findings of a strategic review, which clearly articulated the global threat environment, and presented a broad strategy to address those threats moving forward. The budget released today supports that strategy by ensuring that our military has the tools and resources necessary to deter, confront and defeat threats wherever they may emerge. “This is the right way to develop a defense budget - generate a coherent strategy, and then provide resources to fund that strategy. I applaud the President for initiating the strategic review process and I applaud former Secretary Gates and current Secretary of Defense Panetta for effectively carrying it out. “I have consistently said that we can rationally evaluate our national security strategy, our defense expenditures, and the current set of missions we ask the military to undertake and come up with a strategy that enhances national security by spending taxpayer dollars more wisely and effectively. I believe this budget meets that goal. “This budget is also fully consistent with the funding levels set by the Budget Control Act passed by Congress. Although I did not support this act, many members of the House Armed Services Committee did so, Congress passed it, and the Department of Defense has submitted a budget that complies with the congressionally-mandated funding levels. “Over the last few years, our military has put together a significant string of foreign policy successes, including the death of bin Laden, Anwar Al-Awlaki, the elimination of much of al Qaeda's leadership, the end of the war in Iraq, and supporting the uprising in Libya. The budget lays out a strategy that will enable the United States to build on those successes and confront the threats of today as well as in the future." ###
2.13.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today released the following statement after Gov. Gregoire signed a measure legalizing same-sex marriage in Washington State into law: “I am pleased to see the progress Washington State has made in recognizing marriages for same-sex couples. No couple should be denied the opportunity to enter into marriage and build a life together based on love, commitment, and mutual support. This is why I am a co-sponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act, which would allow the Federal government to recognize marriages that are currently legal in individual states. “The passage of landmark legislation that allows all couples the ability to join in marriage moves us closer to becoming a more equal and fair society. But while we have made tremendous strides, more work must be done to achieve a society that provides all people with equal opportunity and basic human dignity. “I am committed to protecting the rights of all men and women to love and honor their spouses and I look forward to working with my colleagues to see that marriage for all couples becomes a national reality.” ###
2.8.2012	Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Adam Smith, WA-09, today announced $2 million in funding for two Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration projects. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers funds will go to the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project in Marysville and the Seahurst Beach Restoration Project in Burien. “I am pleased the Army Corps has recognized the importance of moving ahead on the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project,” Larsen said. “I spoke to Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy last week and I stressed the significance of the work and expressed the community’s support for continuing the work.” “Seahurst Park serves as a key location for research, education and recreation in Puget Sound and I’m happy the Army Corps has prioritized its restoration with funding support,” Smith said. “This project will help protect endangered wildlife and will ensure our shoreline remains intact.” The Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project is part of a 350-acre project just south of Marysville, between the city’s wastewater treatment plant and the residential neighborhoods on the hill on Sunnyside Boulevard. The project will restore the tidal marsh that existed prior to farming. The project includes levee breaching, levee setbacks, channel restoration and planting of native flora. The project is critical for regional salmon recovery as it restores juvenile salmon habitat, and increases tidal habitats for waterfowl and shorebirds. The Seahurst Phase II Ecosystem Restoration Project is the second phase of a partnership effort between the City of Burien and the Army Corps to remove and reduce the impact of bulkheads to the nearshore and restore shoreline in Puget Sound. Completion would result in the largest nearshore restoration in the area and will renovate beach habitat to protect endangered wildlife. Each year, Seahurst serves as an outdoor classroom to researchers and more than 10,000 students who receive environmental education about the beach and shoreline restoration efforts. The project is endorsed by the Puget Sound Partnership and has significant support from the scientific and academic community within Washington State. The funding for the Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration Program is included in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ work plan for fiscal year 2012, which was provided to Congress this week. For more information on the Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration Program, visit http://www.nws.usace.army.mil/PublicMenu/Menu.cfm?sitename=RPPS&pagename=home_page. For more information on the Qwuloot Estuary Restoration Project, visit http://www.tulalip.nsn.us/qwuloolt/index.html. For more information on the Seahurst Phase II Ecosystem Restoration Project, visit http://www.BurienWA.gov/SeahurstPark. ###
2.7.2012	Congressman Smith joined Stephanie Miller to discuss Afganistan and developing situations in Syria and Iran. share: f t Congressman Smith joined Stephanie Miller to discuss Afganistan and developing situations in Syria and Iran. Listen to the full interview.
2.1.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in commemoration of Black History Month: “As we celebrate Black History Month this February, let us honor the significant contributions and achievements African-Americans have made to our nation. The legacy of African-American trailblazers serves as an example of the leadership and commitment necessary to overcome insurmountable obstacles. “As our country continues to face difficult economic times, we must also acknowledge that people of color are still disproportionately affected by unemployment and by discriminatory practices that must be addressed. “There is still more work to do to realize a society that grants everyone a fair chance to succeed. No matter their race, creed, or background, we must ensure all people have an equal opportunity in our country to reach their highest potential, and to achieve their dreams.” ###
2.1.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today made the following statement regarding Susan G. Komen for the Cure’s decision to halt grants to Planned Parenthood: “I am greatly disappointed with Susan G. Komen for the Cure’s decision to sever its ties with Planned Parenthood Federation of America. Susan G. Komen, known for promoting and advocating for women’s health, has allowed politics to stand in its way of delivering on its mission and its promise to thousands of women. The true victims of this new policy will be low-income and uninsured women who are in need of affordable and regular mammograms and other preventative screenings. “I hope the Komen Foundation seriously reconsiders this policy and figures out a way to continue meeting the needs of the women it means to serve without succumbing to political pressures.” ###
1.25.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement regarding the President’s State of the Union Address: “The most important issue facing our country is creating broad-based economic opportunity for every American. Returning our society to a place where every American has an equal chance to succeed has been slow, and there is much more to be done. “The President outlined steps we must take to continue moving forward. By focusing on bringing jobs back to America through tax breaks to companies that keep them here, investing in community colleges to train and prepare our workforce with skills needed to compete in a 21st century global economy, by making higher education more accessible and affordable for anyone who wants to attend, and by monitoring unfair trade practices that ensure American workers and our products compete fairly within the global marketplace, we can do what is necessary to get our economy back on track. “The Administration has also put together a significant string of foreign policy successes, including the death of Osama bin Laden, the elimination of much of al Qaeda's leadership, the end of the war in Iraq and by supporting the people of the Middle East and North Africa in their pursuit of a more representative government. Most recently, the President laid out a strategy to enable the United States to build on those successes and confront the threats of today and of the future, wherever they may emerge. “There is still much work to do. Too many people working hard, being responsible and playing by the rules only to realize that opportunities that once existed are no longer there. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress to support initiatives and policies that level the playing field, rebuild our economy and prepare us to meet the challenges of the future." ###
1.22.2012	Congressman Smith (WA-09) today released the following statement after Congresswoman Gabby Giffords announced she will resign from Congress: "Congresswoman Gabby Giffords is a true friend, and a dynamic and dedicated public servant. Over the last year, she and her family have experienced very difficult and life changing events, but her courage and determination in the face of these challenges has truly been inspiring. "Gabby has been an extraordinary Member of Congress and an outstanding member of the House Armed Services Committee. Her top priority has always been to serve and work hard to advocate for the people of southern Arizona and the impact she’s had in Congress will be felt for years to come. "While Gabby will be deeply missed, the speed of her recovery has been remarkable. I respect her decision to step down from Congress to continue focusing on her health. I have no doubt she will continue making a positive impact on the lives of those around her "I wish Gabby and her family nothing but the best, and I will continue to do whatever I can to support her recovery."
1.18.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today released the following statement regarding his opposition to the Stop Online Piracy Act: “I am committed to finding ways to more effectively protect American innovation that helps drive our economy, but I do not support the Stop Online Piracy Act as it currently stands. Intellectual property theft and piracy undermines our competitive advantage within the global economy, negatively impacts multiple sectors within Washington State and the national economy, and costs individuals and U.S. - based businesses of all sizes billions of dollars each year. “It is vitally important that we protect the intellectual property of content providers in the United States from serious threats posed by online piracy, but it is also important to ensure innovators have the ability to continue creating, producing and sharing new ideas. SOPA, as it stands, would significantly prevent that from happening. “Though intellectual property protection is critical, the policies proposed by the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and the PROTECT IP Act (PIPA) are troubling. There is great concern among technology professionals and Internet users that these measures, if enacted, would place unacceptable limitations on the accessibility of online information and content, impose undue burdens on small and innovative websites and applications, and would not be the most effective way to curtail overseas illegal piracy and theft of intellectual property. “I appreciate the attention this issue has received and the focus on finding better ways to protect American innovation and creativity without impeding the historic strengths and benefits of the Internet. I look forward to working with my colleagues to balance these important priorities in future legislation.” ###
1.16.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today released the following statement in observance of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: "Let us celebrate the 29th Anniversary of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day by honoring the principles Dr. King used to inspire millions towards justice, equality, and civil rights for all people regardless of ethnicity, gender, religion, sexual orientation, or economic status. "His legacy challenges us to remember that through compassion and service to our communities, we can have a society that provides equal opportunity for all individuals ready to achieve their dreams. "The impact of Dr. King’s work will never be forgotten. His commitment to a more just society continues to inspire us all." ###
1.8.2012	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement today commemorating the one-year anniversary of the shooting in Tucson, Arizona: “The tragedy that occurred on January 8, 2011 will be remembered for the way it impacted and changed hundreds of lives. It will also be celebrated as a time when people in Tucson and around the country united in a spirit of service to each other that reflected Gabby’s commitment to her community and to our country. “As we honor the victims whose lives were lost that day, I also hope we remember how important it is to work together to solve our problems, to engage in civil dialogue with those who disagree with us and to realize how important it is when we make an effort to find common ground. “I offer the families of those who died that day my deepest condolences, and as Gabby continues to show amazing progress in her recovery, I look forward to supporting her when she returns.” ###
1.6.2012	Rep. Smith Announces U.S. Service Academy Nominations TACOMA, Wash. - Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today announced the U.S. Service Academy nominations from Washington State’s 9th congressional district: “I’m honored to nominate these outstanding young men and women to our United States Service Academies. They each exhibit exceptional academic skills and character, and demonstrate a commitment to serving our country. “These academies provide students unique educational and leadership development opportunities and I wish our nominees the best of luck in receiving an offer of appointment.” Nominees: United States Military Academy Joseph Lee, Auburn, Auburn Senior High School Alexander Stewart, Steilacoom, Bellarmine Prep School Sarah Sorenson, Lakewood, Bellarmine Prep School Jennifer Lee, Federal Way, Decatur High School Nick Rollolazo, Federal Way, Federal Way Senior High School Isaac Wani, Federal Way, Federal Way Senior High School Dillon Wright, DuPont, Meadowdale High School Jennifer Ashmore, Puyallup, Puyallup Senior High School Greg Herschberger, Lacey, River Ridge High School Nate Knox, Lacey, Timberline High School United States Naval Academy Sarah Sorenson, Lakewood, Bellarmine Prep School Damon Medina, Spanaway, Bethel High School Wesley Pond, Federal Way, Christian Faith School Jennifer Lee, Federal Way, Decatur High School Isaac Wani, Federal Way, Federal Way Senior High School Abby Allen, Kent , Kentridge High School Katelyn Orchard, Olympia, Olympia High School Jennifer Ashmore, Puyallup, Puyallup Senior High School Courtney Lee, Puyallup, Puyallup Senior High School Greg Herschberger, Lacey, River Ridge High School United States Air Force Academy Joseph Lee, Auburn, Auburn Senior High School Nick Rollolazo, Federal Way, Federal Way Senior High School Isaac Wani, Federal Way, Federal Way Senior High School Billie Rae Edwards, Lakewood, Lakes High School McKall Turk, Olympia, Pierce College Jennifer Ashmore, Puyallup, Puyallup Senior High School Courtney Lee, Puyallup, Puyallup Senior High School Zach Eberl, Olympia, River Ridge High School (Graduate), University of Washington Greg Herschberger, Lacey, River Ridge High School Breanna Ziccarelli, Auburn, Thomas Jefferson High School United States Merchant Marine Academy Isaac Wani, Federal Way, Federal Way Senior High School Jennifer Ashmore, Puyallup, Puyallup Senior High School ###
1.5.2012	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement regarding the strategic review released by the Department of Defense. share: f t House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement regarding the strategic review released by the Department of Defense: “Today’s announcement marks the conclusion of an important strategic analysis of the threats our country faces today, as well as in the future and how we can best address those threats moving forward. It represents a synopsis of the global threat environment, and presents a broad strategy to address those threats. “This review comes at an important time. Congress has been engaged in an ongoing debate about how best to meet the spending reductions stipulated in the bipartisan Budget Control Agreement without undermining our national security objectives. I have consistently said that we can rationally evaluate our national security strategy, our defense expenditures, and the current set of missions we ask the military to undertake and come up with a strategy that requires less funding and strengthens national security. I believe this review provides a framework to achieve that goal. “Not only does the strategic review clearly articulate the threats we face, but it also shows that simply spending more money on defense does not necessarily makes us safer – spending more wisely and effectively does. Clearly, we do not have an endless amount of resources, and that should be taken into consideration, but it should not be the driving force behind our national security strategy. As demonstrated by the strategy laid out today, the Administration fully understands this fact. “The Administration has put together a significant string of foreign policy successes, including the death of bin Laden, Anwar Al-Awlaki, the elimination of much of al Qaeda's leadership, the end of the war in Iraq, and supporting the uprising in Libya. Today's announcement lays out a strategy that will enable the United States to build on those successes and confront the threats of today as well as in the future, wherever they may emerge." ###
12.31.2011	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement after the President signed the Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act into law: “I am pleased to see that the President signed this important piece of legislation into law. Overall, this bill prioritizes our troops deployed in Afghanistan, and around the world, by ensuring that they have the tools and resources they need to do their job and protect national security. It also provides our troops and their families with the benefits and support that they deserve, including a 1.6 percent pay increase. “It continues to make counterterrorism a priority and makes significant investments in all branches of our Armed Services, ensuring that our military is prepared to meet the threats of today as well as in the future. It supports our troops as they continue to fight overseas, invests in new technologies for the future, and protects vital military equipment production capacity here at home. “I share many of the President’s concerns with this bill, but I also feel confident that we made adequate adjustments to mitigate many of those concerns. Moving forward, I will continue to work to make sure that the President is not needlessly restricted in his ability to take steps to protect us from attacks while at the same time making sure that our basic civil rights are protected. “In drafting the FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act, the House Armed Services Committee worked diligently to strengthen our support for the troops and their families, and to address some of the bills shortfalls. I believe we made progress, but more work remains to be done and I look forward to working with my colleagues as well as the Administration moving forward.” ###
12.23.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after the Department of Justice announced a $335 million settlement with Countrywide Financial Corporation for discriminatory lending practices: “I'm pleased the Justice Department reached an agreement that will compensate thousands of African-American and Hispanic borrowers who were subjugated to Countrywide’s discriminatory policies, but I'm still deeply concerned that not enough people in the financial sector have been held accountable for their role in the sub prime mortgage crisis. “The collapse of our housing market is widely accepted to be one of, if not the, key factor in our economic crisis and the actions of Countrywide and its subsidiaries who unfairly steered thousands of minority homeowners to purchase riskier subprime mortgages significantly increased its impact. Providing recompense to the victims of these unfair and unethical lending practices is a step forward in bringing the people who committed these crimes to justice but more action must be taken to prosecute those who allowed this type of predatory activity to occur. “This year, Washington State had the 15th-highest foreclosure rate in the country and creating and enforcing the policies that prevent this from happening again is one of my highest priorities. I will continue to monitor these cases and make sure we do what is needed to protect individuals and their families from irresponsible business practices that jeopardize their quality of life and that compromise our country’s economic stability.” ###
12.16.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), made the following statement following House passage of the omnibus bill funding the federal government through FY 2012: “Congress should be able to move forward in deciding how our nation will fund its priorities on schedule, without waiting until the last minute and continually risking a government shutdown. I’m glad that after almost three months of delays we were able to pass a bipartisan, long-term spending bill that eliminates uncertainty about federal employees’ jobs and the many important services Americans rely on the federal government to provide. “While this bill funds the government through the remainder of fiscal year 2012, it is not perfect. We continue to face serious economic challenges and are required to make tough decisions that will help get our country back on track. However, this bill does ensure our military personnel have the resources needed to maintain national security and provides our agencies the funding needed to continue the functions that keep our country up and running. “I hope in the new legislative year we’ll carry forward the bipartisan compromise we saw in crafting and passing this legislation and focus on addressing the many important challenges facing our nation.” ###
12.16.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement after Secretary Arne Duncan and Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced Washington State was awarded a Race to the Top-Early Learning Challenge grant that will provide up to $60 million to fund its early childhood education programs: “I congratulate leaders from the Washington State Department of Early Learning on this incredible achievement. A high-quality early childhood education is the foundation for a successful future and is paramount to building stronger communities and a strong economy. This was a competitive process, and to be chosen from 35 applicants around the country speaks to the quality of their ideas and commitment to the students they serve. “I applaud Washington’s education leaders on this accomplishment and look forward to the implementation of these programs and working towards their success.” ###
12.15.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Col. Tommy Brittain, Washington State Transportation Secretary Paula Hammond and King County Councilmember Julia Patterson made the following statements after U.S. Department of Transportation announced a $15 million TIGER III grant to fund the I-5 Joint Base Lewis-McChord Area Congestion Management Project and a $10 million TIGER III grant to fund the South Link Lightrail Extension Project: "Helping secure funds for projects that improve transportation throughout our region is one of my top priorities,” said Congressman Smith. “These grants will help alleviate traffic for military personnel and communities around the JBLM corridor and save commuters time and money. They will also improve freight traffic, benefiting our local economy while adding hundreds of jobs to our region. These are significant wins for our district and I thank Congressman Dicks, along with Senators Cantwell and Murray for their longstanding support.” "We're grateful for the efforts of everyone involved to address the growing traffic congestion that has affect JBLM and our neighboring communities,” said Col. Tommy Brittain. “We have worked very closely with local communities, regional and state agencies, and federal and state legislators, to develop strategies that mitigate the congestion brought about by growth in Pierce and Thurston Counties, as well as our growth here at JBLM. This grant is yet another indicator of the positive, cooperative relationship we enjoy with our neighbors, and we look forward to continuing to work together to find solutions to regional challenges." "A true partnership is bringing about transportation improvements in the JBLM corridor," said Washington State Transportation Secretary Paula Hammond. "Our state delegation in D.C. helped win these federal dollars, and we have partners at the base and in Pierce County and local cities. With this grant money, we can make transportation investments in this critical corridor that will have an immediate impact on reducing some of the congestion." "The South Link Project provides South County residents increased mobility to get to and from work, helps protect the environment by reducing the number of cars on the road, and provides huge opportunities for economic development around the station area,” said Sound Transit Board and King County Councilmember Julia Patterson. “I offer my congratulations to all our partners in this effort." ###
12.15.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the conclusion of the Iraq War: “I am pleased to see that President Obama has followed through on his pledge to responsibly redeploy United States combat forces from Iraq by the end of the year. Over the last 8 years, our troops have done a tremendous job protecting U.S. national security and supporting the Iraqi people as they seek to establish a stable, prosperous nation. I want to applaud our troops for their hard work and thank them for their sacrifice. “The United States is concluding a long, difficult conflict in Iraq and this announcement initiates a new chapter in U.S-Iraqi relations. Iraq is a newly emerging democracy, and there will be tough times ahead, but we will continue to work with our partners in the region and through our diplomatic resources to support the Iraqi people as they transition from a period of conflict, to a period of peace. “Over the last few years, we have witnessed the removal of multiple terrorist leaders, including Osama Bin Laden and the disposal of a tyrant in Libya. The concluding of this conflict continues to build on the Administration’s foreign policy successes and I look forward to continuing to work with the Administration as we work to ensure U.S. national security. ” ###
12.14.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement after the House passed the Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act: “Today marks another milestone in our work to support the men and women of our Armed Services and I want to thank Chairman McKeon, all members of the committee and staff for their hard work and commitment to bipartisanship. Producing this bill has been a truly bipartisan effort. I also would like to thank all of my colleagues in the House for the work they put into creating this piece of legislation. “Overall, this bill prioritizes our troops deployed in Afghanistan, and around the world by ensuring that they have the tools and resources they need to do their job and protect national security. It also provides our troops and their families with the benefits and support that they deserve, including a 1.6 percent pay increase. “It continues to make counterterrorism a priority and makes significant investments in all branches of our Armed Services, ensuring that our military is prepared to meet the threats of today as well as the future. It supports our troops as they continue to fight overseas, invests in new technologies for the future, and protects vital military equipment production capacity here at home.” Provisions within the National Defense Authorization Act include: $519 million for military construction projects in Washington State 1.6 percent pay increase for troops $1.683 billion for military family housing Required enhancements to psychological health, military suicide prevention and post-suicide response programs Significant enhancements to Department of Defense sexual assault and harassment policies Six year reauthorization of the Small business Innovation Research Program and the Small Business Technology Transfer Download the National Defense Authorization Act conference report. Download the National Defense Authorization Act conference report summary. ###
12.14.2011	Senator Patty Murray, Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Senator Maria Cantwell, and Governor Christine Gregoire have launched a campaign to ensure that Fairchild Air Force Base becomes home to the next generation of aerial refueling tankers. As part of that campaign, Washington state’s full congressional delegation sent a letter to U.S. Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley to outline the exceptional assets Fairchild has to offer the new fleet. The letter was sent in conjunction with efforts by Washington state legislative leaders who also voiced their support for tanker placement at Fairchild. "Fairchild Air Force Base has been a historic part of our nation’s aerial refueling effort and is well suited to achieve global-level reach to the emerging Asia-Pacific theater,” the delegation members wrote. “Fairchild provides an exceptional quality of life for its airmen and the local community has embraced the base. The Spokane community has a rich history with the military and embraces military personnel, their families, and retirees through programs and events that have drawn numerous military recognitions awarded to the community.” The KC-46A is intended to replace the U.S. Air Force's aging fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers which has been the primary refueling aircraft for more than 50 years. With more refueling capacity and enhanced capabilities, improved efficiency and increased capabilities for cargo and aeromedical evacuation, the KC-46A will provide aerial refueling support to the Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps as well as allied nation coalition force aircraft. The full text of the letter follows: Michael B. Donley Secretary of the Air Force 1690 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330 Dear Secretary Donley, On behalf of the State of Washington, we would like to thank you for the service and sacrifice made by the men and women and their families of the United States Air Force on behalf of our nation. It is with that gratitude that we write to you today in support of the KC-46A aerial refueling program and the Air Force’s strategic basing process. As you know, the KC-46A will play a critical role in the United States’ global strategy. Mission successes will rely heavily on the strategic basing determination process and the effective and efficient use of these aircraft. Fairchild Air Force Base has been a historic part of our nation’s aerial refueling effort and is well suited to achieve global-level reach to the emerging Asia-Pacific theater. The base is a strategic staging platform supporting the rapid worldwide global mobility mission with access to a number of aerial refueling routes while minimizing transit fuel consumption. Fairchild is also home to a classic association of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing with the Air National Guard 141st Air Refueling Wing. The association marries the best the active duty and reserve component have to offer, providing for world-class aerial refueling, airlift and aeromedical evacuation capabilities while fostering innovation and efficiency in operation. Together, the integrated ARWs deliver a full spectrum of capability with one of the largest, most experienced organizations in the Air Force today. The Air Force continues to recognize Fairchild’s assets and has invested over $400 million in base infrastructure over the last several decades. Accommodating the new KC-46A will require a modest investment in infrastructure as the Air Force has already improved the 14,000 foot runway and has plans to build a new Wing Headquarters and improved SERE facilities. Fairchild provides an exceptional quality of life for its airmen and the local community has embraced the base. It is a strongly desired duty station and is the second-most requested Air Force assignment in the United States. There are also 1000 Air Guard members who reside in the community with additional retirees who choose Spokane as their home following their military careers. The Spokane community has a rich history with the military and embraces military personnel, their families, and retirees through programs and events that have drawn numerous military recognitions awarded to the community. The Spokane community has developed a white paper by “Forward Fairchild,” a coalition of Spokane businesses and community advocated that further detail the benefits associated with Fairchild Air Force Base, the Spokane community and Washington State. We have enclosed it for your review. We look forward to your consideration of Fairchild Air Force Base as a home for the new tanker fleet. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Patty Murray U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell U.S. Representative Jay Inslee U.S. Representative Rick Larsen U.S. Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler U.S. Representative Doc Hastings U.S. Representative Norm Dicks U.S. Representative Jim McDermott U.S. Representative Dave Reichert U.S. Representative Adam Smith
12.13.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA – 09) made the following statement today after the Obama Administration and Deputy Secretary of the Treasury announced the U.S. Treasury will suspend future production of $1 coins: “In August 2011, I introduced the Dollars and Sense Act (H.R. 2778) to reduce overproduction of $1 coins and eliminate the backlog of more than one billion excess coins sitting in Federal Reserve vaults. “I’m pleased President Obama and his Administration have seen the waste in this program and have chosen to do something about it. This decision cuts costs and creates an opportunity to redirect taxpayers’ money in more efficient and meaningful ways. “I applaud the President for taking an important step in addressing this issue. I look forward to working with the Administration and federal agencies to maximize the use of taxpayer dollars and reform programs that don’t effectively meet public needs or demand.” ###
12.13.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement today following the announcement of the OH-58 Kiowa observation helicopter crash at Joint Base Lewis-McChord: "I extend my deepest condolences, thoughts and prayers to the families and loved ones of the soldiers who died in this tragic accident at Joint Base Lewis-McChord. While the circumstances surrounding this horrible accident are still unclear, we are certain this is a sad day for their families and for our entire community. “Our servicemen and women take significant risks while training and serving abroad. I will work with officials to investigate what happened during this training mission, and to determine ways we can prevent this type of tragedy from occurring again. “I express my deepest sympathy to the families and friends of the soldiers. Nothing can replace their service and their sacrifice.” ###
12.8.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today reintroduced the National Freight Mobility Infrastructure Act, H.R. 3607, that will ensure federal support for the national freight mobility network and critical freight infrastructure and transportation improvements throughout the United States. “America’s freight transportation system is a national asset and critical to our productivity and global competitiveness,” said Rep. Smith. “Over the next 20 years, it is estimated that the volume of domestic freight will double while international freight will triple. This bill ensures our freight and transportation infrastructure remains competitive and strengthens economic growth.” This legislation creates the Freight Mobility Infrastructure Improvement Program within the U.S. Department of Transportation to provide long-term financing for critical infrastructure improvement goals. Through it, states, ports and regional transportation authorities would work in collaboration with non-governmental stakeholders and freight transportation industry entities to identify high-priority projects and apply for funds. The Secretary of Transportation would then competitively award grants based upon a project’s impact on freight mobility improvement, cost effectiveness, and regional/national economic impact. “Our multimodal freight transportation system is a national asset that we have failed to appreciate and support. Nowhere is this need more pressing than in the freight system that provides for our nation’s commerce,” said Port of Tacoma Commissioner Don Meyer. “Without strategic corridor investments to expand capacity and increase efficiency, U.S. productivity and global competitiveness will suffer, costs will increase and investment will lag. We applaud Congressman Smith’s efforts to make this vision of strategic freight mobility a reality.” Funds for this program would be generated by a freight-specific user fee and deposited into a newly-created National Freight Mobility Infrastructure Fund exclusively dedicated to supporting freight mobility projects. The fee would be imposed at a rate of one percent on the fair market value of multi-modal ground transportation costs, with a few exceptions for federal, state and local government transportation, and transport within a local geographic area. “We applaud Congressman Smith for recognizing the importance of freight infrastructure and the need to support it with a responsible freight user fee,” said Leslie Blakely, executive director of the Coalition for America’s Gateways and Trade Corridors. “Our national freight system needs significant investment for our manufacturers, producers and consumers to compete in the world marketplace. This legislation will help build the needed infrastructure while fairly spreading the burden among system users.” For more information on Congressman Smith’s support of national transportation and infrastructure improvements, visit https://adamsmith.house.gov. ###
12.6.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement today celebrating the final charter aircraft with Joint Base Lewis-McChord Soldiers from the 17th Fires Brigade and the 62nd Medical Brigade returning from Iraq: “I am pleased to welcome the final large group of Joint Base Lewis-McChord Soldiers home from Iraq today. This is a proud day for the Soldiers, their families, our community and our country. “Over the last 8 years, our troops have done a tremendous job protecting U.S. national security and supporting the Iraqi people as they seek to establish a stable, prosperous nation. I want to applaud our troops for their hard work and thank them for their sacrifice. These brave men and women represent the best our country has to offer. We are grateful for their service, and welcome them home.” ###
12.5.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement today after Gov. Chris Gregoire and the Washington State Department of Commerce announced a $19.7 million award from the U.S. Department of Treasury to launch the Washington Small Business Credit Initiative: "The Washington Small Business Credit Initiative will catalyze economic growth and facilitate private sector job creation in our area. It is more important now than ever that we support small businesses that have had trouble securing capital needed to launch and sustain innovative ideas. For every dollar we invest, $15 to $18 private dollars will be generated, resulting in more than $300 million in our local economy by 2016. "This investment will provide current and potential small business owners a significant boost, helping them overcome some of the challenges they face as entrepreneurs seeking new sources of funding in difficult economic times. "I’m proud that Washington State was chosen as a recipient of this award. As small businesses are the backbone of a healthy local and national economy, this is a critical investment that will benefit us all." ###
11.30.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement today after the Boeing Company and the International Association of Machinists announced they intend to build the new 737 MAX in Renton, Wash.: “I am pleased that Boeing and the International Association of Machinists have come to an agreement to build the new 737 MAX in Boeing’s Renton, Washington plant pending ratification of a labor agreement. Boeing’s intent to build Next-Generation 737s and the 737 MAXs in the Renton facility is great news for the Puget Sound Region.737 MAX production in Renton would guarantee employment for thousands of workers and provide a much needed boost to the local economy. “I applaud the effort that Boeing and IAM have put into securing an early agreement to ensure the Puget Sound Region remains a leader in aerospace manufacturing.” ###
11.22.2011	Congressmen Adam Smith (WA-09) and Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement after hosting the Help Identify Real Employment (HIRE) for America Jobs Fair at the ShoWare Center in Kent where nearly 2,400 job seekers met with 90 local employers: “I am extremely proud that thousands of job seekers joined me and Congressman Reichert to meet with more than 90 employers at today’s event," said Smith. "Our goal is to put Americans back to work, and it starts by making sure we connect employers with potential employees who have matching skills and needs. That is exactly what happened today. This bipartisan effort brought our community together to address the most important issue our country faces right now, and we’re grateful to everyone who participated for making it a success.” “The HIRE America jobs fair was a success,” said Reichert. “I spent the entire day talking with local employers and job seekers, hoping to fill hundreds of jobs. It’s too early to tell exactly how many positions will be filled but I’m confident, after speaking with those in attendance, that today’s bipartisan effort was effective. I spoke with constituents who were eager to make an impression and employers who were energized by their interviews with capable candidates. What a blessing it would be to a family, a business, and the community if we can place one employed person in a new position this holiday season. “The community pulled together to make this successful event possible. I plan to take this best practice – along with a strong spirit of bipartisan cooperation – to Washington, DC in hopes of spreading this message with my colleagues.” ###
11.21.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement today after the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction announced the Committee did not reach an agreement: “It is deeply concerning that after months of discussions the Supercommittee has failed to reach a deal to reduce the federal deficit. Once again, we’ve missed the chance to implement a comprehensive plan that balances revenue and spending reform and puts us on the path toward fixing our long-term fiscal and economic problems. "There is a firm understanding of the challenges our nation faces. However, there is a lack of will to confront them. The math is simple: the federal government spends far more money that it brings in. The solution to this problem lies in reducing spending while raising new revenues – a fact many of my colleagues have now acknowledged. But simply acknowledging it is not enough. "Now, due to the divide in Washington and through sequestration, we face significant cuts to a wide range of important programs that have supported our middle class, built our economy and created opportunities for future generations. In addition, the Department of Defense now faces deep, indiscriminate cuts that would not be based on sound policy or strategic review and could undermine national security. This is no way to defend our nation, and this is no way to run our government. "While today's announcement is very concerning, it is not the end of the road. The now pending cuts will not be implemented until Fiscal Year 2013, but that still does not give us much time. Even the specter of sequestration will be extremely disruptive and could lead to cut backs in defense spending well before January 2013. "Congress must act now. No committee can address these issues on its own. It is my hope that Democrats and Republicans will recognize the severity of the problems we face and act now with urgency to solve them." ###
11.19.2011	WASHINGTON - Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement today following his No vote on the Balanced Budget Amendment: "I opposed the balanced budget amendment considered by the House for two reasons. First, it does nothing to address the immediate challenges we face in our budget or in this economic crisis. Congress has repeatedly created commissions or rhetorically claimed that at some future date they will try to get our federal deficit under control. But that's the easy part. The tough part is actually cutting the spending and raising the revenue necessary to get us on a path to fiscal responsibility. This amendment again failed to do that. I strongly believe that Congress passing a ten-year plan that cuts spending and raises revenue in a way that gives people confidence that our government will finally get its fiscal house in order is a critical part of solving our economic crisis. But this bill simply delayed the tough decisions necessary to make that happen. "I also oppose this amendment because there are rare circumstances when running an annual deficit is necessary. In an economic crisis or national emergency, requiring a balanced budget would have a devastating impact on our economy. If this amendment were in effect during the 2008 financial crisis, it would have required deep spending cuts or tax increases at a time when such action would have made our economy much worse. "Congress has the power to do what is necessary to balance the budget without a restrictive constitutional amendment. We don’t need another distraction. We must make the tough decisions on what spending to cut and what revenues to raise." ###
11.17.2011	WASHINGTON - House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement regarding passage of the VOW to Hire Heroes Act that will lower the rate of unemployment among our nation’s veterans: “The VOW to Hire Heroes Act is a bipartisan bill that honors veterans for their service and leadership by providing the support they deserve after returning home. After years of service, struggling to find work should be the least of our veterans’ concerns. “This legislation will improve the transition back to civilian life for thousands of veterans by expanding education, training and counseling, while providing incentives for businesses and organizations that hire veterans who are out of work or who have service-related disabilities. Our nation’s veterans are highly-skilled and have expertise that will greatly benefit our workforce and help strengthen our nation’s economy if given the opportunity. “There is no better way to offer veterans our gratitude and respect for their service, than by ensuring they receive the best treatment our nation has to offer. I applaud my colleagues for swiftly passing this bill and making sure their well-being is one of our top priorities. ###
11.16.2011	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, has introduced legislation to address the inefficient uses and management of public land through the federal grazing permit program: The Rural Economic Vitalization Act of 2011 would: Save taxpayers up to $115 million each year by reducing the costs of public lands management. Attract private investments that will help stimulate rural economies. Provide federal grazing permit holders the option to exchange permits for market value compensation. Improve wildlife habitat and reduce environmental damage due to livestock grazing. “The current federal grazing program is among the most economically inefficient uses of our public lands. My legislation opens the door for private solutions to a long-standing problem that costs taxpayers millions and has prevented public land ranchers from efficiently utilizing resources available to them. “Many permit holders would choose to retire from public lands grazing if they could recoup their investment in their federal grazing permit. REVA provides a private market mechanism to do this. On a voluntary basis, current permit holders will have the option to relinquish their grazing permits in exchange for market value compensation paid by private parties. “The Bureau of Land Management and the Forest service run an annual deficit administering grazing permits and managing private cattle grazing operations. My bill eliminates wasteful spending, gives ranchers the choice to retire permits, allows public lands to recover natural habitats and fosters the return of native plants and wildlife.” ###
11.14.2011	Congressmen Adam Smith and Dave Reichert released the following statement after announcing their plans to host the Help Identify Real Employment (HIRE) for America Jobs Fair on Tuesday, November 22 from 10 a.m to 3 p.m. PST at the ShoWare Center in Kent, Washington: “Dave and I are honored to co-host this event in Kent, a city we both represent,” said Smith. “We both strongly believe in working across party lines to address unemployment and improve our local and national economies. We are also committed to working together to empower individuals and strengthen our local community. Our goal is that this event will provide workers the skills and resources they need to find jobs, and make the holiday season less difficult for struggling families. That is and should always be a bipartisan effort.” “Adam and I understand that Washingtonians want their elected officials to work together to create an environment for economic growth,” said Reichert. “Our hope is that bringing local businesses and individual constituents together under one roof will increase employment in our communities. I am proud to be a part of this unique event and will continue to work across the aisle to help struggling families cope with these tough economic times.” Representatives from more than 75 local employers are expected to attend. Participants are encouraged to bring resumes and prepare to interview onsite. The fair is free and complimentary parking will be available. ###
11.12.2011	U.S. Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee and co-chair of the New Democrat Coalition Trade Task Force, made the following statement after the announcement of the broad outlines of a Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement among the United States, Australia, Brunei Darussalam, Chile, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, and Vietnam: "Today, with the announcement of a framework for the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the President has taken a significant step forward in expanding U.S. trade that will improve our national and local economies. With nearly one in three jobs related to trade in Washington State, a regional agreement would help increase access for our local exporters. It would also bring us closer to doubling American exports by the end of 2014, a goal set by the President’s National Export Initiative. Based on the goals set forward, a successfully concluded TPP agreement would reduce barriers for U.S. goods to the world’s fastest growing economic region. Opening new markets in Asia would create new sources of job creation and economic growth, particularly in the Pacific Northwest. "Looking out at the foreign policy landscape, the countries of the Asian Pacific region will continue to be strategic partners in the years ahead and it is in our interests to boost our engagement in the region through measures that improve diplomacy, development, trade, and security. Pursuing a 21st Century trade agreement that our advances economic ties with the region is solid progress in this process toward better relations. "This framework for a 21st Century trade agreement lays out a new approach – one that incorporates high labor standards, promotes innovation, helps small and medium sized businesses participate, reduces costs for utilizing green goods and services, and allows our country to more actively compete in international markets especially against state-owned enterprises. Going forward, I will continue to monitor the development of this agreement to ensure that it is the best deal possible for the American people." ###
11.10.2011	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in observation of Veterans Day and after the Senate passed VOW to Hire Heroes Act of 2011: “In observance of Veterans Day, it is not only important that we honor our veterans with words, but also with actions. Today, the Senate passed the VOW to Hire Heroes Act of 2011, a bill championed by the President that will help unemployed veterans find work. I encourage the House to quickly follow suit. When our veterans return from defending our nation abroad, they should not have to fight for a job here at home. I applaud the President for making our veterans a priority and leading this effort. “As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, it is my privilege to represent our service members in Congress. We owe the men and women who have served our country an enormous amount of gratitude and respect. As a Member of Congress who represents thousands of active and retired services members, I will continue working to address the needs of our veterans and, for those newly leaving active duty, to ensure they have the support necessary for their transition back into civilian life. “As a fierce advocate for our veterans, I will continue to push for the expansion of job and educational opportunities. Moving forward, I will also continue to work with the President and all members of Congress to provide our men and women in uniform, our veterans, and their families with all the benefits that they deserve for their years of faithful service.” ###
11.1.2011	Grant will assist in improving pedestrian facilities, upgrading traffic signals, and adding additional lanes to address the increased traffic around Madigan Army Medical Center (Washington, D.C.) – Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Representatives Norm Dicks (D-WA-06) and Adam Smith (D-WA-09) applauded the announcement by the Department of Defense that the City of Lakewood will be awarded a $5.7M grant for a transportation project to improve medical access to Madigan Army Medical Center. “I’m proud to fight to make sure that our men and women in uniform and their families can access the medical facilities they need in a timely and efficient manner,” said Senator Murray. “That’s why I worked to help secure these funds, and I’m so glad that Joint Base Lewis-McChord will be able to start this long overdue project.” “Madigan Army Medical Center is one of the busiest hospitals in the Pacific Northwest, providing critical care to our brave men and women in uniform in a six-state region,” said Senator Cantwell. “The successful operation of this state-of-the-art medical facility depends on modernized and efficient transportation infrastructure that alleviates congestion around Joint Base Lewis McChord. I was proud to support this investment, which will improve vital medical access to this technologically advanced facility for our military community. The men and women who serve our country deserve access to the quality health care they have earned.” “These tangible improvements are expected to significantly reduce the delays that Madigan patients and JBLM employees experience entering and leaving the base, particularly at peak hours,” said Representative Dicks, who serves as the ranking Democratic Member of the House Appropriations Committee and its Defense Subcommittee. “Working to reduce congestion around Joint Base Lewis-McChord is a priority to my District,” said Representative Smith, who serves as the ranking Democratic Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “This investment is a step in the right direction that will have a positive impact on our local community, though much more needs to be done and I will continue to make this a top priority. I congratulate the City of Lakewood for putting together a quality proposal and for their work with partners in the region to secure this funding.” The infrastructure improvements were funded as part of a $300 million package of upgrades to military medical facilities approved earlier this year by Congress, helping to ease congestion at Madigan Army Medical Center, Walter Reed National Military Medical Center and other defense-related hospitals. The funding will allow the City of Lakewood to complete the Madigan Hospital Access Improvement Project, which involves: • Adding a third lane to the Berkeley Street overpass; • Adding a second left turn lane to the Interstate-5 southbound off-ramp; • Upgrading and coordinating traffic signals at the I-5 northbound ramp, the I-5 southbound ramp and Union Avenue; • Adding a second receiving lane from the Berkeley Street overpass into JBLM; • Improving lane configurations and widening on Berkeley Street and Union Avenue to improve overall efficiencies of the transportation system; and, • Adding pedestrian facilities for improved safety. When this project is completed, vehicles entering and leaving at the Madigan Gate will save a total of 662 hours in delay on a typical weekday, and individual delays will improve from an excess of 10 minutes to 35 seconds. The Interstate 5 corridor plays a vital economic role due to both the freight movement and in national defense, serving as the primary access to and from JBLM and Camp Murray, the state’s Emergency Operations Center. The project is critical to serving transportation mobility affecting commerce in the State of Washington, as well as measurably improving the provision of care for the 1.4 million patients visiting MAMC annually. This will also be a help to the local community as we continue working to reduce congestion along the I-5 corridor. ###
10.14.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the dedication of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial on the National Mall: “The ceremonial dedication of the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. memorial being held Sunday in Washington, D.C. reminds us all of the progress we have made in celebrating diversity and recognizing the human dignity of all people. The memorial reflects the awe-inspiring and prescient message Dr. King delivered during his 1963 “I Have a Dream” speech. “I cannot think of anyone as deserving of this honor as Dr. King, a man so dedicated to peace and so eager to end injustice that his mere presence was a threat to those motivated by hate and intolerance. Not only will Dr. King’s words continue to inspire us for generations, but now his greatness will live on through this eternal symbol set in stone.” # # #
10.13.2011	U.S. Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee and co-chair of the New Democrat Coalition Trade Task Force, made the following statement after the House passed pending trade agreements between the U.S. and South Korea, Colombia, and Panama, along with renewal of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) reforms and expired trade preference programs today: “Today, Congress has helped move a balanced trade agenda forward, one that includes Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) and the three pending trade agreements. This builds on the Administration’s continued aggressive enforcement when our trading partners don’t meet their obligations under existing treaties. “I have pushed for years to improve TAA and the three trade agreements that were considered today. As a result of my efforts and those of my colleagues, TAA is a better program and the Administration has made significant improvements to the three trade agreements. “The comprehensive package passed today will support individual workers advance their skills in a changing economy, help struggling businesses adapt to new demands, create more opportunities for Washington State exports abroad and strengthen the job market in our local economy. As the most trade dependent state, nearly one in three Washington jobs is tied to trade. “Importantly, these agreements include enforceable commitments for our trade partners to adopt, maintain and implement laws that incorporate core internationally recognized labor rights. That means, if our trading partners don’t abide by those obligations, we have measures to ensure that they do.” ###
9.30.2011	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in response to the death of Anwar al-Awlaki: “The death of Anwar al-Awlaki is a significant blow to Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and to the Al Qaeda movement, which has repeatedly tried to carry out terrorist attacks against the United States and the people of Yemen. “Anwar al-Awlaki will no longer be able to propagate hatred and manipulate impressionable youth to take up arms against the United States and our allies. His hate-filled sermons have inspired multiple recent terror plots and Yemen and the world are safer places now that he is gone. “Following the death of Osama Bin Laden, Anwar al-Awlaki’s death is the latest in a long line of successes by the President and the men and women of our intelligence community. I applaud them for their excellent work in keeping our country safe.” # # # For more information, please visit http://democrats.armedservices.house.gov/
9.29.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, congratulated the cities of Federal Way and Milton for receiving grants from the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services Hiring Program: “This is great news for the South Sound community. I commend the brave men and women who choose to serve by becoming police officers. They are on the front lines of keeping the public safe and neighborhoods strong. These COPS Hiring Program grants will allow Milton and Federal Way to bolster their police force with highly trained individuals, which will improve the security of the entire 9th district.” The grants include $807,345 for the City of Federal Way to hire three officers, and $298,032 for the Milton Police Department to hire one officer. COPS Hiring Program (CHP) grants provide funding to state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies to hire, preserve and/or rehire career law enforcement officers in an effort to create and preserve jobs and increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. On Wednesday, September 28th, the Department of Justice announced $243.4 million allocated for CHP grants across the country to create or preserve 1,021 sworn law enforcement positions for three years. These grants will cover the full salary and benefits packages for officers. For more information, visit www.cops.usdoj.gov or contact the COPS Office External Affairs Division at 202-514-9079.
9.19.2011	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on tomorrow’s official repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”: “I applaud President Obama for fulfilling his promise to repeal the discriminatory “Don't Ask, Don't Tell” policy and allow individuals to openly and honestly serve and protect the nation they love, regardless of their sexual orientation. This is a welcomed change that puts government policy in line with the values of our country. “For almost 20 years, "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" has undermined the readiness of our military. This unwise and harmful policy has forced thousands of capable brave men and women, who are only too eager to serve the nation, out of our Armed Forces at a time when our nation needed them most. “No longer will capable and dedicated Americans need to hide who they are to serve the country they love.”
9.15.2011	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, recognized the contributions of Hispanic Americans for National Hispanic Heritage Month (September 15th-October 15th): “Hispanic Americans have made outstanding contributions in business, education, the military, government, and the arts. “Today, Hispanic-owned businesses are growing our economy and creating jobs. As the largest ethnic minority in our country, Hispanic men and women serve honorably in our military and have sacrificed for the freedoms all Americans enjoy. The rich Hispanic culture continues to have a strong influence on the nation especially in the academic and arts communities. “Unfortunately, unemployment rates among Hispanic Americans are disproportionately high. Enhancing education, including programs for our growing English-learning population and job training, is a path to family-wage employment and economic success. We must also prioritize keeping kids in school, raise high school graduation rates, and provide opportunities for affordable higher education, which is why I have been a longtime supporter of our region’s Community and Technical Colleges. “While hailing from many different backgrounds, Hispanic Americans hold the same values of family, civic engagement, and pride in hard work that tie our country together. I am proud to represent the strong community of Hispanic men and women who make up a vital part of the fabric of the South Sound.”
9.13.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement after passage of H.R. 2887, the Surface and Air Transportation Programs Extension Act of 2011: “I support the passage of this bill to avoid a repeat of the harmful August Federal Aviation Administration shutdown that cost 4,000 federal employees and 70,000 construction workers part of their paychecks. “Extending funding for Surface Transportation programs will also mean needed upgrades to America’s roads and bridges, infrastructure projects that will create jobs now. “However this is still only a short-term solution, buying us a few more months before the same debate returns. It is time to remove political obstacles and pass a long-term bill. “Congress must act to pass a long-term extension that fully funds the air and surface transportation needs of our country. This action is a critical piece of improving our economy for both the short and long term." # # #
9.9.2011	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith made the following statement in observance of the 10th anniversary of the September 11th attack: “This Sunday, we will observe the 10th anniversary of the September 11th attacks. This was a tragic day in American history that changed the world in a substantial way. “First and foremost, on this important anniversary we must remember and honor those who perished. The innocent Americans who died that day will forever be in our memory. The brave first responders who selflessly put their lives on the line - and in many cases gave their lives - to save their fellow Americans will never be forgotten. As we remember this sad day in our nation’s history, our thoughts and prayers go out to the friends and families of those who lost their lives. “We must also use this anniversary as a reminder that terrorists continue to plot and plan attacks against our nation. The brave men and women of our Armed Forces have made an enormous amount of progress in securing our country, but the threat remains and we must continue to be vigilant in our efforts to protect our nation. # # # For more information, please visit the House Armed Services Committee Democrats website.
9.8.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on President Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress presenting “The American Jobs Act”: "America’s economy is stalling. The collapse of our financial system starting in 2007 was a significant blow that the country has yet to recover from. We are now confronting twin challenges of reducing our massive federal debt while encouraging economic growth and job creation. Action is necessary to free up investment and expand the job market on the short term and to begin to achieve the long-term goal of balancing the budget. “I believe improving our national infrastructure is essential, and I was encouraged by the President’s proposal tonight. Federal investment in workforce training, transportation, education, and energy will support living wage jobs now and make sure we are equipped to compete and succeed in the global economy of the future. “Implementing a tax credit for companies that hire America’s veterans would be a promising step. Our returning warfighters are equipped with a variety of technical skills that are not always immediately recognized by the private sector. After sacrificing for the security of all Americans, these men and women should be rewarded with a chance at a successful civilian career for themselves and their families. “Closing corporate tax loopholes as part of the offset for this jobs plan also makes sense, and I give the President credit for looking at the revenue side of the budget equation in this proposal. Addressing the long-term debt crisis through a balance of responsible spending cuts and revenue increases is the direction we need to be moving in. “Unfortunately, we still need to go further to address the larger problem inhibiting job growth in America today: Instability and lack of trust in our economic system. Investors are understandably wary after years of short-sighted, unpredictable policy governing the U.S. tax code, interest rates, and spending proposals. As a result, private capital sits on the sidelines, at a time when we desperately need businesses and individuals to hire and spend. “I believe we need a 10-year, comprehensive budget plan that would return predictability to the marketplace. Simplifying the tax code and setting out a responsible, long-term financial framework would restore confidence and free up private-sector investment to return to the economy, expand businesses, and create jobs. “The focus of recovery should be getting people back to work. Responsible federal policies that keep our fiscal house in order, investment in infrastructure, and removing barriers to private capital investment can work together to achieve this.”
9.5.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement on Labor Day 2011: On Labor Day, we honor the American worker, the engine of our economy, and our most important resource. It is also time to remember the important role labor unions and collective bargaining rights have historically played in supporting our nation’s workers and shaping the backbone of America’s strong middle class. However, today, the U.S. job market is stalling and many of our friends and neighbors are unemployed or underemployed. I believe it is more important than ever that we help people achieve their American dream by supporting family-wage jobs and fighting for opportunities like education and workforce training. It is vital that we continue to invest in the American worker and help them succeed in an increasingly competitive global marketplace. As we confront our current fiscal challenges, we must keep in mind the American values of broad-based prosperity and economic opportunity for all. We need a balanced, long-term approach to getting our economy back on track that will spur job growth while protecting programs that support our working-class.
8.30.2011	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement on the verdict in the Jason Puracal trial in Nicaragua: “Jason Puracal has been taken away from his wife and son for nearly nine months and put on trial for drug trafficking and money laundering. "Unfortunately, last night, Jason was convicted of all counts against him in a flawed Nicaraguan justice system. I was hoping for a better outcome for Jason and his family. "Going forward, my office will continue to advocate for Jason as an American citizen and work with the State Department to explore all options under international law.”
8.25.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, held a town hall Thursday evening in the Burien City Council Chambers to discuss the national budget and economic policy: “I believe it is my job to listen to the people of the Ninth District and engage with them in open public forums. I will do my best to represent my constituents and do what I feel is best for the country,” said Smith. During the meeting, Smith heard from concerned citizens who highlighted the need for job growth, addressing our mounting national debt and deficits, regulation of Wall Street, and worries about the future of programs like Social Security. One small business owner was concerned about the extension of the Federal Aviation Administration’s funding bill, due to expire in September. Rep. Smith assured her that he supports passing a long-term bill that will protect workers and grow jobs by allowing infrastructure improvements to move forward. Before opening the floor to questions and comments, Rep. Smith emphasized the need for a balanced, comprehensive approach to fixing our fiscal and economic challenges. “A complete debt-reduction plan will have to address revenue and cut spending in a responsible and balanced way,” said Smith. Town halls and civil public debate are a longstanding tradition of our nation’s democratic process.
8.23.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement about the groundbreaking of the new Raisbeck Aviation High School in Seattle, due to open in 2013: “I am pleased to participate in the groundbreaking ceremony for this promising institution. The Pacific Northwest is home to some of our country’s premiere technology-driven companies. The Aviation High School will help ensure we also continue to lead in producing highly skilled workers who are equipped to succeed in a competitive global economy. “The next generation of scientists, researchers and engineers will get their start here. We must continue to invest in education and support opportunities for young people to reach their full potential.”
8.8.2011	Congressman Adam Smith, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following remarks on the extension of the Federal Aviation Administration budget authorization until September 16: "I am glad to see the gridlock in Washington D.C. will no longer be costing 4,000 federal employees and 70,000 construction workers their paychecks. However the situation is still in limbo and the outcome of the long-term budget negotiations could still harm workers and the economy. "It's important to recognize that the shutdown on July 23rd was entirely preventable. After passing 20 short-term extensions since 2007, this time Rep. John Mica introduced a cap to the Essential Air Service funding that helps rural airports stay open. Representatives were asked to choose between funding the FAA and supporting small town airports that connect underserved communities with the national transportation and economic grid. "This roadblock put thousands of jobs and federal contracts into question, and lost the government $400 million in uncollected taxes over the past two weeks. That is why I cosponsored H.R. 2644, the “Aviation Jobs and Safety Act of 2011,” a clean extension of FAA authorization that would have averted a shutdown without political obstacles until Congress could agree on a long-term bill. "Now that the Senate has approved the short-term House extension, the next hurdle will be resolving the conflict between both chambers’ versions of a long-term FAA funding bill. The Senate appointed conferees on their bill months ago, while the Majority leadership in the House has yet to move forward. Until the House acts, negotiations over a long-term FAA bill remain in a stalemate. Local South Sound businesses, the Ports of Tacoma and Seattle, airlines, city and state governments are all impacted by this toxic uncertainty. It stands in the way of updating our radar systems, aircraft, airports, and many other important infrastructure projects. "It is time to proceed with a comprehensive, long-term plan that can realistically achieve bipartisan support. Come September, if we cannot find a solution to this impasse, Congress could once again be leaving thousands of workers in the lurch and scrambling to pass a short-term extension. For the sake of protecting the American worker, House leadership needs to appoint conferees and move the FAA reauthorization process forward as soon as responsibly possible."
8.6.2011	House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement today on the casualties in Afghanistan: "Today was a difficult day for our nation, our Armed Services and especially for the families and loved ones of the brave service members who lost their lives. "This terrible incident serves as a stark reminder of the sacrifice made by our service men and women as well as their families. Today, our thoughts and prayers are with them. In the days and months ahead, I will continue to focus on ensuring that the mission is worthy of their sacrifice."
8.1.2011	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement today following his No vote on the Budget Control Act of 2011: “I voted against the budget deal that passed the House tonight because it is a flawed piece of legislation that misses the chance to set the country on a balanced path toward fixing our long-term fiscal and economic problems. “Over the course of recent negotiations, we had a real opportunity to implement a budget plan that raised the debt ceiling as part of a broader deficit-reducing deal that included cuts, revenue and reform. This plan, cobbled together at the last minute, misses that chance. “Not only does this plan not address revenue, it also sets caps in broad areas of spending without specifying what programs will actually be cut, allowing lawmakers to once again kick the can down the road without confronting the realities of our budget situation. A more complete debt-reduction plan would have comprehensively addressed revenue, implemented reforms to entitlements, and cut discretionary spending in a responsible and balanced way. “By focusing overwhelmingly on discretionary cuts, many of the important programs that have historically supported our robust middle class, built our economy, and created opportunities for the next generation are made vulnerable. Priorities such as scientific research, education, infrastructure, national security, and many others may face over an additional $1 trillion in devastating cuts, which would do significant harm to our already struggling economy. To prevent the worst of these cuts from taking effect, revenue must be on the table. “Though flawed, this proposal will offer us yet another opportunity to address our budget problems through the newly established select committee. In December, we will face another deadline and engage in another debate that will offer us the chance to address our fiscal problems more wisely. I hope we use this time to bring everything to the table and get America back on the path to economic prosperity.”
7.22.2011	“I am pleased to see that this damaging, discriminatory policy has now come to an end and I applaud Secretary Panetta, all of our service chiefs and former Secretary Gates for following through on the President’s pledge to allow all Americans to serve and protect our nation. share: f t House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement after President Obama certified the repeal of “Don’t ask, Don’t Tell” with the full support of the Secretary of Defense and all four service chiefs: “I am pleased to see that this damaging, discriminatory policy has now come to an end and I applaud Secretary Panetta, all of our service chiefs and former Secretary Gates for following through on the President’s pledge to allow all Americans to serve and protect our nation. “Two of the United States Government’s primary responsibilities are to provide for a strong national defense and protect the rights of its people. Repealing “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” helps to achieve both of these goals. Allowing gays and lesbians to serve openly and honestly in our military is not only the right thing to do, it’s the smart thing to do. Driving thousands of loyal, qualified Americans out of our Armed Forces at a time when we need them the most undermines our military’s effectiveness. “Nearly 14,000 service members have been discharged since the law was implemented in 1993, and thousands more have been denied the right to serve the country they love - solely due to their sexual orientation. This harmful practice has now come to an end. No longer will dedicated Americans need to hide who they are to serve the country they love. “Again, I applaud the President for making the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” a priority and our military’s leadership for making it a reality.”
7.7.2011	House Armed Services Ranking Member Adam Smith released the following statement in response to the Administration’s decision to send condolence letters to family members of soldiers who commit suicide: “The Administration’s decision to send letters of condolence to the family members of soldiers who commit suicide is a welcome change in policy. “As the men and women of our Armed Services and their families know all too well, not all wounds reveal themselves in the form of a scar or a lost limb. The difficult things that some servicemembers witness or experience can affect them in a variety of ways, such as traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress, depression and anxiety. This shift in policy recognizes that fact and helps to begin the process of removing the stigma associated with the mental health issues that are being experienced by our troops.” For more information, please visit the website of the House Armed Services Committee Democrats.
6.23.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after the arrest of two suspects on terrorism and firearms related charges late Wednesday in Seattle: “The news of last night’s arrests in Seattle is a reminder that we must continue to be vigilant in keeping Americans safe from the threat of terrorism, even at home. Initial reports of the plot are sobering: Two radicalized Americans allegedly planned to murder members of our Armed Forces and men and women who were enlisting to serve their country. I commend the work of the federal, state, and local law enforcement who were able to disrupt this attack and prevent harm to members of Joint Base Lewis-McChord and the Military Entrance Processing Station in Seattle. It is also important to note that the first line of defense in this case was a member of the community who stepped forward to cooperate with authorities and thwart the alleged terrorists.”
6.21.2011	The United States Military relies heavily on fossil fuels to operate and execute its missions, creating a vulnerability that our enemies are keenly aware of. In fact, Osama Bin Laden once said, "[Oil] is the umbilical cord and lifeline of the crusader community… Focus your operations on oil, especially in Iraq and the Gulf area, since this will cause them to die off." While crudely stated, the comment reveals an undeniable threat to our national security. To address this significant national security issue, on behalf of Representative Gabrielle Giffords, House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith introduced the Department of Defense Energy Security Act of 2011. The bill is designed to move the Department of Defense forward on energy security by reducing its dependence on fossil fuels. “Representative Giffords has been a leader on this issue and it is an honor to introduce this important piece of legislation on her behalf,” said Ranking Member Smith. “Since joining the House Armed Services Committee, Representative Giffords has understood that our military’s overreliance on fossil fuels represents one of our great vulnerabilities and she has worked tirelessly to address this shortfall. While she has been successful in including a number of proposals in the committee’s annual defense authorization bill in the past, this legislation represents a comprehensive approach. I applaud her for her hard work and dedication to this issue.” “Our enemies are critically aware of our reliance on oil, and they are using it to their advantage,” the Congresswoman said at a press conference last year to introduce a similar piece of legislation. “Instead of fighting the enemy, thousands of service members are dedicated to securing supply lines so that fuel can reach forward operating bases and far-reaching outposts.” The Department of Defense Energy Security Act of 2011 (DODESA), developed by the office of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and Sen. Mark Udall, builds on the DOD’s efforts and systemically addresses DOD energy security. DODESA decreases the consumption of petroleum by: · Creating a Joint Contingency Base Resource Security Pilot Project to coordinate technology development across the services. · Studying the integration of high-efficiency propulsion systems into tactical vehicles. · Designating a DOD executive agent for alternative fuel development. · Extending long-term contracting authority for the procurement of alternative fuels. · Increasing the procurement of electric, hybrid and high efficiency non-tactical vehicles. DODESA reduces our reliance on the grid by: · Funding the Installation Energy Test Bed Initiative. · Enhancing energy-management and monitoring practices. · Creating a plan for development of renewable projects and defining renewable electricity standards. · Robustly funding the Energy Conservation Investment Program, which retrofits our oldest buildings with smart lighting, insulated windows and efficient climate control systems. · Adopting enhanced energy-efficiency standards for military buildings. · Studying the energy security of renewable development and the societal impacts associated with enhanced energy security on military installations. In order to prevent any degradation in our military’s ability to defeat our enemies, DODESA includes exemptions for fuel use in major combat operations and permits the Secretary of Defense to waive any requirements that hamper their ability to accomplish their mission or maintain our national security. For additional information on DODESA visit Congresswoman Giffords website.
6.1.2011	Congressman Adam Smith, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the news that President Obama will award the Medal of Honor to Sergeant First Class Leroy Arthur Petry, for action while serving with Joint Base Lewis-McChord’s D Company, 2nd Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment: "Sergeant Petry’s actions rose above and beyond the call of duty, and exhibited the finest qualities of valor and sacrifice that distinguish a hero. Despite being wounded by enemy fire during an operation in Paktya, Afghanistan on May 26, 2008, Sgt. Petry’s first instinct was to protect the lives of his fellow Rangers, with complete disregard for his own personal safety. “I am humbled by Sgt. Petry’s incredible courage and dedication to duty and believe his actions are certainly worthy of this honor and making him only the second living, active-duty service member to receive the Medal of Honor for action in Iraq or Afghanistan. “Each member of our Armed Forces gives a great deal of themselves, risking their lives every day to serve this country. We in the Pacific Northwest are proud of the extraordinary bravery shown by Sgt. Petry and all the men and women who serve at Joint Base Lewis-McChord. We are also thankful to the military families, like Sgt. Petry’s wife, Ashley, and his four children, who support their loved ones, and whose sacrifices keep us safe.”
5.30.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on Memorial Day, 2011: "America is protected by the greatest fighting force the world has ever known. Every day, the men and women of the United States military perform an array of security, emergency relief, and development operations in challenging environments across the globe. Their dedication to their mission, courage, and professionalism represents the very best our country has to offer. Memorial Day provides the opportunity to honor the memory of those who have made the ultimate sacrifice and given their lives in service to our country. Today we also extend heartfelt thanks to all members of the United States Armed Forces, past and present, whose service makes possible our way of life. “Americans’ gratitude must include service members and military families alike, who together make tremendous sacrifices for the safety of this country. It is fitting that the House of Representatives just passed the Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act, which includes a pay raise for all members of the Armed Services, as well as improved support for their families. “It is important for Congress to remain committed to members of the Armed Forces, both during their service and after they have transitioned to a new phase of life. Department of Labor statistics show an alarmingly high rate of unemployment for veterans, almost 27% for servicemembers between the ages of 20-24, who have recently returned from Iraq or Afghanistan. As a nation, we cannot allow these young men and women to fall through the cracks. With that in mind, I am co-sponsoring The Hiring Heroes Act of 2011, designed to help veterans transition successfully from military service to the civilian working world. The bill augments vocational assessment and training for separating servicemembers, creates a competitive grant program for organizations that provide mentorship and job placement for veterans, and eliminates barriers for military members to achieve civilian licenses for occupational specialties gained during service. These provisions will ensure that America’s commitment to supporting our military men and women does not end when they leave active duty. “On Memorial Day, please join me in showing gratitude to the servicemembers, veterans, and their families whose sacrifice protects Americans everywhere.”
5.26.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement after the House passed the Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act by a vote of 322 to 96: “Today marks another milestone in our work to support the men and women of our services and I want to thank Chairman McKeon, all members of the committee and staff for their hard work and commitment to bipartisanship. Producing this bill has been a truly bipartisan effort. I also would like to thank all of my colleagues in the House for the work they put into creating this piece of legislation. “Overall, this bill prioritizes our troops deployed in Afghanistan, Iraq and around the world by ensuring that they have the tools and resources they need to do their job and protect national security. It also provides our troops and their families with the benefits and support that they deserve, including a 1.6 percent pay increase. “It continues to make counterterrorism a priority and makes significant investments in all branches of our Armed Services, ensuring that our military is prepared to meet the threats of today as well as the future. It supports our troops as they continue to fight overseas, invests in new technologies for the future, and protects vital military equipment production capacity here at home. “There is still much more work to be done, and I look forward to reviewing the Senate’s version of this bill and working with my colleagues here in the House to make sure we send the President a final bill that meets the high standards of the United States Armed Services.” # # # For more information, please visit the website of the House Armed Services Committee Democrats.
5.20.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement recognizing National Small Business Week 2011: “Small business is the key to our country’s economic future. During National Small Business Week, we honor the accomplishments of dedicated entrepreneurs, whose innovation, risk-taking, and hard work represents the economic engine of our nation. “Policymakers must remember that government cannot create the spark of ingenuity for a new product, nor the drive to see that idea through to a fully-realized business venture. However we do have the responsibility to foster an environment that encourages new enterprises and helps businesses of the future flourish. This effort includes educating a world-class workforce, rewarding innovation, deploying and improving cutting-edge infrastructure, and balancing federal budgets—overall, setting the stage for successful entrepreneurship and growth. “With that in mind, I am firmly committed to ensuring that Washington’s small business community continues to thrive. I support economic policies that encourage small business growth, including tax credits and programs that make it easier to navigate the regulations and paperwork often demanded to do business with the federal government. “We look to the small business community for innovative technologies and practices, job creation for the new economy, and the advancement of American competitiveness in the 21st century. I am proud of the many successful businesses and people of the South Sound region whose efforts in biotech, aerospace, green technologies, and various other fields have created high wage, high-tech jobs, and I am always looking for any way I can help them prosper.”
5.15.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement recognizing National Peace Officers Memorial Day: “On National Peace Officers Memorial Day, we take time to honor the sacrifice of law enforcement officers who gave their lives protecting the safety of their fellow Americans. “Today, I am reminded of four members of the Lakewood Police Department who were brutally murdered at the hands of killer set on targeting law enforcement. Each of the fallen, Sgt. Mark Renninger, Officer Ronald Owens, Officer Tina Griswold, and Officer Gregory Richards, was a parent, a spouse, a friend, and a trusted colleague in the police force. The attack on these officers has had ripple effects for the families who miss their loved ones, and the community whose sense of safety is now diminished. “It is alarming that 2011 has already seen a 20 percent increase in fatalities over the prior year, including 33 officers killed by gunfire since January 1st. “Brave men and women risk their lives every day by putting on the uniform and badge. Please take a moment to remember our nation’s law enforcement officers whose extraordinary service and sacrifice has made us safer and protected our way of life.”
5.12.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member, made the following statement after the committee passed the FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act by a vote of 60-1: “As the Armed Services Committee concludes its mark up of the FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act, I would like to thank Chairman McKeon, the members of the committee, and staff for their hard work and dedication to the well-being of our service men and women. "This bill provides our military with the resources and equipment necessary to accomplish their missions and safeguard national security, while also ensuring our troops and their families have support at home that reflects their incredible sacrifice for our nation. "Although we encountered differences during this markup, members were able to resolve disputes in a respectful manner and uphold the bipartisan tradition of this committee. “As we move to the floor later this month, I look forward to continuing this conversation with the rest of our colleagues in Congress, while keeping in mind our paramount responsibility to provide resources for our military personnel and their families.” # # # For more information, please visit the website for the House Armed Service Committee Democrats.
5.4.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the ongoing case of Jason Puracal, an American jailed in Nicaragua on drug trafficking charges: “I am very concerned about the son of one of my constituents, an American citizen, who is currently being held in a Nicaraguan prison. “Jason Puracal was arrested on drug trafficking charges in Nicaragua on November 11, 2010. In the nearly six months Mr. Puracal has been behind bars, the Nicaraguan authorities have presented no evidence linking him to any crime. There are also disturbing reports of Mr. Puracal being mistreated and denied medical care while in jail. “If an American citizen commits a crime in a foreign country, it is my belief that they should be subject to that country’s judicial system. However, no evidence has been presented up to this point linking Mr. Puracal to drug trafficking. “My office has been in regular contact with the American Consulate in Nicaragua, requesting better medical attention and more frequent visits for Mr. Puracal in prison. I also had the chance to meet with Mr. Puracal’s mother and sister several months ago, after which I personally called the U.S. State Department to urge direct action in this case. “I believe, with heightened pressure from the State Department, there is a better chance for Mr. Puracal to have a fair trial. Nicaragua has a history of leveraging prosecutions against U.S. citizens for political reasons, as in the case of Eric Volz, an American whose murder conviction was overturned in 2007 due to a lack of evidence. Even after his conviction was overturned, it took direct involvement by then-Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to convince the Nicaraguan court to finally free Mr. Volz. “More attention from the U.S. government may be the only way to prevent this continued injustice. Going forward, I will be in contact with the American Ambassador to Nicaragua as well as Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, urging communication with President Ortega’s administration about our concerns over the lack of evidence in this case. “Jason Puracal’s next court date is May 16th and I will be closely following the progress of his trial.”
5.1.2011	Washington DC - House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Congressman Adam Smith (WA - 09) released the following statement after President Obama announced this evening that Osama Bin Laden has been killed: "Osama Bin Laden orchestrated a devastating attack on our nation nearly 10 years ago designed to destroy our way of life. Since that day, he has continued to call for the death of innocent Americans and those who disagree with his distorted, violent ideology. "His death is a victory for all those who champion freedom around the world and sends a resounding message to violent extremists who seek to do our country harm. "I applaud the hard work of our men and women in the armed services and intelligence community, the President and all the individuals who have worked tirelessly to bring Osama Bin Laden to justice."
4.20.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the Army’s announcement that Joint Base Lewis-McChord has been selected to be a Net Zero pilot installation for water consumption and waste production: “Today’s announcement confirms that Joint Base Lewis-McChord is leading the charge to reduce the environmental impact of all U.S. military installations. The Army received over 100 applications from 60 installations to be a part of the sustainability program, ultimately selecting only six pilot installations in each of the energy, water, and waste categories to strive towards Net Zero by the year 2020. “The goal of Net Zero is not only good for the region’s ecosystem, but increasing the U.S. military’s operational efficiency will aid missions in areas of the world where energy and water supply are in question. It will also lessen our dependence on foreign oil, making America more energy-secure. Greater environmental sustainability would boost quality of life on-base and improve relationships with surrounding communities. All of this is financially prudent and will save taxpayer dollars in the long-run. “I applaud the men and women of Joint Base Lewis-McChord for aggressively pursuing the goal of becoming Net Zero in water use and waste production while still upholding their vital mission of training and deploying combat-ready troops.” # # # Background courtesy of the Army Energy Program: · A Net ZERO Installation applies an integrated approach to management of energy, water, and waste to capture and commercialize the resource value and/or enhance the ecological productivity of land, water, and air. · A Net Zero WATER Installation limits the consumption of freshwater resources and returns water back to the same watershed so not to deplete the groundwater and surface water resources of that region in quantity and quality over the course of a year. · A Net Zero WASTE Installation reduces, reuses, and recovers waste streams, converting them to resource values with zero landfill over the course of a year.
4.19.2011	Rep. Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk reported that outstanding issues around the U.S.-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement have been resolved, and the Administration is ready to move forward: “Today we are one step closer to the approval of a trade agreement with Panama. I support this agreement, which improves a key global relationship and brings economic opportunity to the United States and Washington’s South Sound. “I am pleased to see Panama has taken the necessary steps to resolve outstanding issues, including exchanging important tax and banking information through the U.S.-Panama Tax Information Exchange Agreement (TIEA). These changes improve on the enforceable labor and environmental provisions already included in the agreement. The Panama FTA will create jobs in the U.S., ensure fairness and accountability for American exports, while also solidifying our strategic relationship with a long-time American ally in Latin America. “The South Sound’s export-driven economy, including the Port of Tacoma, will benefit as this agreement moves forward and more U.S. goods reach the growing market of Panamanian consumers.”
4.15.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the passage of the Department of Defense and Full Year Continuing Appropriations Act, which included a provision allotting $250 million in funding for schools on military installations: “The creation of this grant program signals our abiding commitment to military families and the educational opportunities vital to their children’s future. “$250 million dollars will be made available for improvements to public schools on military installations nationwide. This funding measure means the Clover Park School District has the opportunity to secure millions of dollars for renovations and new construction of elementary and secondary schools on Joint Base Lewis-McChord. “The population of JBLM has undergone rapid growth since 2003, when then-Fort Lewis supported 19,000 military members. Today the Joint Base includes over 43,000 military personnel, and the Army has recently announced a plan to add 1,400 soldiers as part of a new Combat Aviation Brigade. “As more families are welcomed to the JBLM community, schools must adjust to greater class sizes and infrastructure challenges. Going forward, I will work with the Joint Base as well as state and local officials to address pressing educational needs both on and off base. “As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I intend to continue working on these issues as we begin consideration of the FY2012 National Defense Authorization Act.”
4.13.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement following President Obama’s presentation of a new budget framework: "America must prioritize deficit reduction and get back on the road to responsible spending. To achieve this, we need to start an honest conversation about the stark numbers we face in tackling our massive debt and deficits. "Last week, Rep. Paul Ryan introduced an FY 2012 budget proposal based on smoke-and-mirrors assumptions of the past: Ryan’s plan shrinks revenue by cutting taxes for the highest earners, slashes assistance for working class Americans, fails to address defense spending, and assumes an unprecedented unemployment level below 4%. "Today, the President offered an alternative fiscal plan. I was happy to see the Administration placing more aspects of federal spending on the table, and ensuring that high-earners pay their fair share. However, it is clear the discussion has not gone far enough. While I applaud President Obama and Rep. Ryan for signaling the start of an open discussion about the budget, the American people need to hear specifics about the stark numbers we face in reconciling the money we spend with the amount we take in. "The math is unrelenting: The U.S. spent $3.5 trillion last year, while taking in only $2.2 trillion in revenue, resulting in a $1.3 trillion dollar deficit in 2010. Balancing our budget immediately would mean a 33% reduction in spending, including massive cuts to entitlements and the defense budget that could destabilize job creation, economic recovery, and national security. "Going forward, we must focus on two major strategic points. First, every piece of the budget should be scrutinized for possible cuts. As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I recognize that a comprehensive approach to reducing the debt includes examining defense spending. "Second, we are not realistically going to be able to balance the federal budget this year or next without catastrophic effects on the economy. We can and must implement a plan to gradually reduce the deficit, moving us in the direction of responsibly balancing our spending and revenue. "Given the size and scope of our fiscal problem, an honest conversation is necessary to produce a realistic path to fixing our budget and creating jobs without jeopardizing America’s economic recovery."
4.12.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the announcement by NASA Administrator Charles Bolden that Seattle’s Museum of Flight was not selected to house a retired space shuttle: “I am disappointed to learn that Washington’s Museum of Flight was not chosen to display one of the retired Shuttle Orbiters. While the competition was fierce, our state’s place in the history of aviation, long support for the aeronautics industry, and commitment to the future of scientific research and innovation would have made an ideal home for a NASA shuttle. “Despite this unsatisfactory decision, I am confident that the Museum of Flight will continue to educate and inspire the next generation of engineers, scientists and astronauts of Washington State. “A team of community members, businesses, schools, and elected officials worked together to create a world-class bid, and everyone involved should be commended for their efforts to bring the shuttle to the Museum of Flight.”
4.8.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement regarding the pending shutdown of the federal government due to a lapse in funding: “If Congress cannot agree on or pass a budget for the remaining 2011 fiscal year, the government will shut down starting Friday, April 8, 2011 at midnight. I remain hopeful that a government shutdown will be averted. However, prudent management requires that we consider the implications of a shutdown if no funding bill is passed. “If a shutdown occurs, the government stops all “non-essential” services. Services deemed essential for the safety of human life and protection of property will continue to operate, including the armed forces, border protection, air traffic controllers, and police and fire departments. For more information about how you and your family could be impacted, my office has posted answers to several frequently asked questions on the web. “In the event a shutdown occurs, my staff will be answering constituent inquiries, pursuing casework as best they can, and assisting with legislative issues. This is a stressful time for many people who deal with the government, including federal workers and military families, and my office will be here to serve the 9th district. “A shutdown would harm our economic recovery and cost our nation valuable jobs and money. As we move forward in budget negotiations, it is important that we work together to pass a responsible federal budget.” What a Federal Government Shutdown Means to You and Your Family The following is a list of frequently asked questions on how a government shutdown could impact you and your family. Will I Still Get My Social Security and Medicare Benefits? Yes. Benefits to this crucial program do not go through the appropriations process, so the Social Security Administration will continue to mail checks. However, a number of Social Security employees will be furloughed, which means services like new Social Security claims, hearings, or resolving complaints may not be processed in a timely manner. Will Mail Be Delivered? Yes. According to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the U.S. Postal Service is self-sustaining and will continue mail delivery, retail service, and other operations in the event of a government shutdown. The Postal Service is essentially funded through the sale of postage. Will I Get My Tax Refund? Yes with a possible delay. Unlike the shutdowns of the 1990s, this one is going to take place during the tax preparation and filing season, creating confusion about the status of IRS operations. Tax forms still need to be postmarked to the IRS by Monday, April 18. Electronic tax returns should be processed normally during a shutdown, but paper returns will not be processed, which may result in delayed refunds to a number of Americans. Will Veteran Benefits Continue? Yes with a possible delay. VA hospitals will remain open, and VBA disability compensation will be paid. New pension, education, or disability benefits could be delayed due to furloughed administrative staff. How are Active Duty Military Impacted? The Department of Defense has released guidelines related to the continued operation of our Armed Forces in the event of a shutdown: “All military personnel will continue in a normal duty status regardless of their affiliation with excepted or non-excepted activities.” Additionally, Secretary Gates has guaranteed that military members will be paid as normal for their service during a government shutdown. Because any delay in paycheck delivery would be a hardship on military and civilian personnel and their families, there is currently legislation pending in the House to pay troops if a budget compromise isn’t reached by Friday evening. Further information on a government shutdown and military personnel is available from the Department of Defense’s website. Will Unemployment Benefits Be Affected? Depending on the length of the shutdown, the federal funds that help states pay the costs of their unemployment programs could run out, which would require the state to step in and advance the money to keep their programs running. In the event of an extended shutdown, benefits could be reduced or stopped. Please contact Washington State’s Employment Security Department if you have further questions regarding your unemployment benefits at 1-800-318-6022. Can I visit a National Park during a shutdown? No. According to the House Committee on Natural Resources, parks would be closed to public use. “Critical” personnel would be kept in place for resource protection (and to tell people that arrive that they are closed). The National Park Service has informed the Natural Resources Committee that they do not expect to close access to open-entrance park land. According to CRS Report RL34680, 368 National Park Service sites closed during the last government shutdown, a loss of approximately 7 million visitors.
4.6.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan’s “Path to Prosperity” budget proposal: “America’s growing deficit is unacceptable and unsustainable. Reigning in spending and finding ways to make due with less funding will mean a certain degree of shared sacrifice at all levels of society as we put our fiscal house in order. “Instead of finding a balanced, conscientious approach to cuts, the FY 2012 budget proposal set forth by Rep. Paul Ryan slashes programs for the middle class—Sets seniors adrift with Medicare vouchers to fend for themselves on the private insurance market; relies on block grants that would limit the number of Medicaid enrollees while shifting costs and risk to states; and encourages food stamp and housing assistance programs to expire for vulnerable families—all to pay for massive tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. “At a time when wealth in this country is becoming dramatically more concentrated in the hands of the very few, Rep. Ryan’s plan targets the most at-risk members of our society with the greatest cuts. Given the budget challenges we all face, it is intolerable to ask our nation’s working poor to bear the greatest burden for recovery, while handing a multi-billion dollar tax break to the rich. “In my town halls, I talk to constituents about looking at the ‘whole pie’ to address deficit reduction. I am glad to see that the Ryan proposal confronts the need to reform more than just the small fraction of discretionary domestic spending being scrutinized in the House up to this point. All parts of the federal budget need to be on the table for a real discussion about how to fix our economic challenges. “We’re currently experiencing the damaging inefficiency and uncertainty caused by a piece-by-piece approach to funding the government, and the debate over our FY 2011 budget is still going on. A responsible compromise must be found to move forward into 2012 with a budget plan that reduces the deficit while preserving the level playing field Americans are right to expect.”
4.6.2011	Rep. Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the announcement that a deal has been reached between Colombia and the United States on key reforms that will advance the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement: “I am pleased to see the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement taking a large step forward today. Now more than ever we must work with our allies to strengthen strategic and economic partnerships that will provide access to emerging markets for American exports and encourage job growth at home. “I applaud the Obama Administration’s work with the Santos government to address serious labor and human rights concerns for Colombian workers. In addition to the enforceable labor standards included in the underlying agreement, the deal announced today requires immediate, concrete steps and resources to address violence against Colombian trade unionists and human rights activists, strengthen workers’ rights, and improve the rule of law. These reforms will remain a priority as we continue to deepen bilateral ties, and I believe such protections will be more swiftly accomplished through engagement rather than inaction. “The Santos Administration is our ally and partner in South America, supportive of U.S. interests both regionally and globally. They have been crucial in tackling instability in developing countries. Colombia’s experience confronting insurgencies and organized crime has improved similar needs in Mexico, Afghanistan, and across Central America. Continued dialogue and collaboration between our governments will improve security and ultimately make Americans safer. “At home, the export-driven economy of Washington’s South Sound stands to gain from decreased tariffs and greater market share as more U.S. goods reach the growing market of 45 million Colombian consumers. I will continue to work with the Obama Administration to ensure a trade agreement that increases the competitiveness of American exports and creates good jobs in the U.S., while remaining vigilant about promoting American values of equality and workers’ rights worldwide.”
3.31.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement about the World Trade Organization’s final report on the European Union’s claims of illegal subsidies to Boeing: “I am pleased to see the World Trade Organization (WTO) confirming its prior interim ruling that the European Union vastly exaggerated its illegal subsidies claims against Boeing. This $2.7 billion WTO decision against the U.S. is only a fraction of the nearly $19 billion the E.U. had originally claimed, and nothing compared to the massive financial support Airbus has benefitted from in Europe for the past four decades. “It became clear, after last June’s staggering $20 billion ruling, that the European Union’s ‘launch aid’ loans to Airbus far surpass any U.S. government support for Boeing’s programs. Indeed, the June WTO report asserted that Airbus would have a significantly weaker manufacturing share without Europe’s illegal subsidies, which distorted the market and cost thousands of American aerospace jobs. “The United States Trade Representative is expected to appeal the findings from today’s final report, and the full extent of the ruling’s impact on Washington State is yet to be determined. However I am encouraged that the WTO has provided further verification that the playing field was uneven, and I applaud Boeing for committing to whatever steps are necessary to fulfill its WTO obligation, once the appeal process concludes.”
3.29.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement regarding the U.S. Army’s plan to form a new Combat Aviation Brigade (CAB) at Joint Base Lewis-McChord, a decision that will bring 1,400 new soldiers and 44 new helicopters to JBLM: “The addition of 1,400 soldiers and 44 helicopters to Joint Base Lewis-McChord is terrific news for the South Sound and Washington State. It’s an honor for our community to become the home of another important military asset, and we will continue to see the benefits of job and business growth for years to come. “The Army has carefully studied this issue and their decision to consolidate existing aviation units and establish a Combat Aviation Brigade at Joint Base Lewis-McChord affirms the strategic importance of the base. No other joint base in the nation sustains an operational force of this range and size. “As the largest employer in Pierce County, Joint Base Lewis-McChord is a key economic engine for the South Sound. The stationing of this aviation unit will be another gain for businesses that serve the region, providing new opportunities for civilian job growth as well as additional military personnel. “The population of the Joint Base has undergone rapid growth since 2003, when then-Fort Lewis supported 19,000 military members. Today the Joint Base includes over 43,000 military personnel. As more families settle into the JBLM community, I remain committed to working with the joint base, as well as state and local officials, at addressing the pressing infrastructure needs both on and off base. “I would like to personally welcome the 1,400 new soldiers and families who will soon be calling the Pacific Northwest home.” # # # (Please note: The Army’s Record of Decision will be in the federal register March 31, 2011).
3.28.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after the President’s speech this evening on the international effort to prevent an international crisis in Libya: "Tonight, the President clearly articulated his rationale for leading an international effort to prevent a humanitarian crisis in Libya. As Colonel Gadhafi moved forward with his campaign of violence and intimidation against the Libya people, the Administration rallied the international community to intervene. Today, it is clear that our subsequent military action prevented the slaughter thousands of civilians. "Building on this speech, the Administration will send a number of key officials to Congress this week to continue to communicate what the goal is in Libya. While initially I had some concerns with the level of communication between the Administration, Congress and the American people, I applaud the Administration for its recent efforts. The President and his leadership team have clearly stated to the American people and Congress what the goal is in Libya. This must continue. "The President has also said that he does not intend to use military force to remove Gadhafi from power, but he will pursue diplomatic and economic measures to help pressure Gadhafi to step down. This is the right approach. While it is important that Gadhafi leave power, I believe the combination of diplomatic and economic pressure, coupled with the no fly zone, is the best way to make this happen. "I applaud the President for stating a clear case as to why we intervened in Libya and as policy makers it is important that we make it clear what the criteria are for interventions of this kind moving forward. "It is also important to note that many who urged the Administration to act, are now criticizing the Administration for its actions. While the Administration could have done a better job of working with Congress in the days prior to taking action, it is clear that U.S. leadership prevented this humanitarian crisis from getting worse and saved thousands of lives. As a nation, that is something we should be proud of." # # # More information about the House Armed Services Committee
3.18.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement on participating in the Washington Innovation Summit’s panel, “How Washington Wins: Pulling Together the Drivers of Growth,” at Microsoft headquarters in Redmond: “The pressures of competition from the international marketplace are greater than ever, and America’s continued economic success requires us to remain a leading force for innovation on the world stage. Today, I am pleased to participate in the Washington Innovation Summit along with local business and technology leaders whose pioneering work has placed the Pacific Northwest at the center of the New Economy. Our region provides a model for how the U.S. will succeed in the 21st century: Innovation driving entrepreneurship, moving industry in new directions, and setting the bar high for global competitors to follow. “Policymakers must remember that government cannot create the spark of ingenuity for a new product, nor the drive to see that idea through to a fully-realized business venture. However we do have the responsibility to foster an environment that encourages new enterprises and helps businesses of the future flourish. This effort includes educating a world-class workforce, rewarding innovation, deploying and improving cutting-edge infrastructure, and balancing federal budgets—overall, setting the stage for successful entrepreneurship and growth. “The South Puget Sound region has attracted many new high wage, high-tech jobs, especially in the fields of scientific innovation and security advancements. I am proud of the businesses and people of the South Sound whose accomplishments in biotech, aerospace, and green technologies demonstrate the advantages of doing business in our community, and I am always looking for any way I can help them succeed. “America’s economy is continuing to become more global, dynamic and technology-driven. While governments don’t create commerce, they certainly enact policies that make it easier or more difficult for economies to thrive. Policy and business leaders must work together to advance the competitiveness of U.S. products, spur innovation, and provide global leadership into the 21st century.”
3.18.2011	Congressman Adam Smith, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the President’s speech this afternoon on the developing situation in Libya: “I am deeply concerned about the developing situation in Libya. As we have all witnessed, Gadhafi has pursued a brutal campaign of violence and intimidation against the Libyan people. This must come to an end. “These heinous actions must continue to be met with international condemnation and a multilateral response. In this light, I applaud the United Nations for building on previous actions and coming together to put forth a resolution to pressure Gadhafi to end hostilities. This resolution builds on previous sanctions and applies substantial pressure on the Gadhafi regime to end its brutal assault on the Libyan people. “Moving forward, it is important that Congress plays a substantial role in any decision that might lead to action by the United States military. Committing U.S. troops to a conflict abroad is not a decision that should be made lightly. At this point in time, it is unclear how or if the President intends to utilize US military force, but it will be critical for the administration to keep Congress closely informed as it makes those decisions.” “Again, we are all deeply concerned about the developing situation in Libya and hope to see a positive outcome. However, any use of U.S. military force will come with consequences and I urge the administration to seek Congressional input as they move forward with any plans to use U.S. military force.” # # # More information about the House Armed Services Committee
3.11.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the 8.9 magnitude earthquake and wave surge that struck Japan Friday: Our thoughts and prayers are with the people of Japan who have been impacted by today’s devastating earthquake and subsequent massive tsunami. As Pacific Northwesterners, we understand the dangers of seismic activity, and our hearts go out to Japan’s residents and the many American families living and working there. We are thankful that the resulting waves hitting Hawaii and the Washington coast have resulted in minimal damage. The Department of State is offering help for U.S. citizens in Japan. Click here for more information.
3.10.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to today’s House Committee on Homeland Security hearing, “The Extent of Radicalization in the American Muslim Community and that Community's Response”: “We must recognize that Muslim Americans are key partners, not adversaries, in our efforts to combat global terror and strengthen our national security. “We face a serious challenge, both at home and abroad, to stop extremist groups who want to do Americans harm and threaten our way of life. But, in pursuing methods to thwart terror, Congress must be sure to accomplish these goals while protecting the crucial civil liberties that have defined our nation for centuries. “As a former member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and current House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member, I have worked with counter-radicalization experts to better understand what leads people to adopt extremist, violent ideologies, and to prevent these individuals from acting on their beliefs. Defeating extremist propaganda requires a careful approach to these issues, including working with the American Muslim community to identify threats. “The tone of today’s hearings in the Committee on Homeland Security was counter-productive to the broader goal of defeating al-Qaida and other extremist groups worldwide.”
3.4.2011	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the announcement that EADS will not appeal the Department of Defense’s decision to award the KC-46A Aerial Refueling Tanker contract to The Boeing Company: “This is a step forward in America's military readiness. Last week’s decision to award the $35 billion tanker contract to Boeing secured a key acquisition priority for the Air Force, and today solidifies a big win for the national security needs of our nation. “I am pleased to hear that this important contract award will not be subject to an appeal. This gives Boeing the green-light to begin delivering on building the KC-46A, creating 11,000 Washington jobs as well as 50,000 nationwide. “The Pentagon has scrupulously applied its rules to this competition, taking into account mission effectiveness and life cycle costs, including fuel efficiency and military construction costs, when choosing the Boeing bid. I am confident that the men and women of the Boeing Company will be able to deliver a quality aircraft that meets our warfighters’ requirements, and look forward to seeing the first KC-46A go into service in the years ahead. “Our warfighters have needed this tanker replacement for almost a decade, and I am pleased to see the process coming to a close with a favorable outcome for The Boeing Company and aerospace jobs in Washington.” ###
2.24.2011	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the announcement that the Department of Defense has selected a provider for the KC-X Aerial Refueling Tanker: “I am pleased that the Air Force has selected Boeing’s proposal to replace the aging fleet of aerial refueling tankers. After numerous delays, today’s announcement moves us closer to meeting the Air Force’s top acquisition priority. “In a time when our nation is recovering from an economic crisis, today’s announcement by the Department of Defense is a huge boost to Washington State. A Washington State-made tanker will support more than 11,000 jobs in state and 50,000 jobs across the country. “I know that the men and women at the Boeing Company will provide the warfighter with a high quality product to meet their mission requirements and I look forward to working with the Air Force as we move forward.” ###
2.14.2011	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement regarding the expiration of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. "I am disappointed that despite its strong track record and history of bipartisan support, the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program has failed to receive a long-term extension. This is the wrong time to delay extending this critical program, and with the expiration of the TAA reauthorization this past Saturday, countless American workers have lost a program that helped provide essential education and job training." "I believe these programs are important to American workers and to the health of our economy, which is why I continue to support proven, bipartisan programs like TAA. I am hopeful that we can work towards an extension of TAA in the future, and I urge my colleagues in the House to pass legislation to continue the TAA program that has been so important to those hardest hit in our economic downturn."
1.17.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the follow statement in observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day: “We celebrate this year’s Martin Luther King, Jr. Day by remembering his courage and honoring his legacy of hope. He was a once in a lifetime figure that changed the mindset of a nation and his work continues to inspire us today." "On this important day, we need to remind ourselves that Dr. King's dream has not yet been fully achieved and we must continue to work toward full equality for all people. In the spirit of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., let us also remember to challenge one another to have compassion for all and fight to rid our communities of discrimination of any form." ###
1.8.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the shooting in Tucson, Arizona: “I am deeply saddened by the senseless attack on Congresswoman Giffords, her staff and others victims of the shooting. “I have served with Congresswoman Giffords on the House Armed Services Committee for years, and she is a dear personal friend. She is an extraordinary member of Congress and an outstanding member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Her commitment to her family, our nation and our troops is unparalleled. I have never served with a more principled, dedicated member of Congress. “Her family, as well as the families of everyone involved in this tragedy, will be in my thoughts and prayers.”
1.7.2011	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the follow statement after the President signed into law the fiscal year 2011 National Defense Authorization Act: “I am pleased to see the President sign this legislation. The Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act represents a year of hard work by our committee and contains important authorities to help our men and women in uniform carry on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. “This legislation supports the men and women of our Armed Forces by ensuring that they have the resources they need. It places our policies and priorities exactly where they belong – on our troops and their families. “The bill authorizes a 1.4 % pay raise for our troops, strengthens military health care and family support programs, and authorizes numerous other programs that will assist military families. It builds on the Committee’s efforts to support our military personnel and ensures that our military is properly resourced to meet the threats we face today, as well as those of the future. “In addition to accomplishing these goals, this legislation contains vital provisions that will improve the Department of Defense acquisition system to ensure that the Pentagon spends taxpayer dollars in the most efficient and effective manner. "I am pleased to see this legislation authorizes funding for the procurement and research development programs to ensure that our soldiers and airmen have the equipment and resources they need to carry out their missions. This includes funding for programs such as Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) Vehicles, equipment for the National Guard and Reserve, Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Systems, as well as other vital equipment and systems used by the Army and Air Force. "I also share the President’s concern with some of the provisions regarding detentions in this bill, many of which were the result of compromises demanded by the then-minority at the last minute. I look forward to working with the Administration to craft a rational policy on detainees.” “This bill is vitally important to our national security and I am proud of the support that it provides to our troops and their efforts to keep us safe. While some adjustments will be needed, I believe it strikes the right balance between fighting the conflicts of today, while preparing our forces for the conflicts of the future.” ###
1.6.2011	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Washington State.), the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after the defense budget announcements by Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen: “Secretary Gates today made a compelling case for continued reforms within the Department of Defense that would reduce waste in many areas and reinvest $100 billion of those savings in critical military priorities that will give our troops greater combat capability.” “While we don’t yet have the full details, Secretary Gates appears to have taken a moderate and responsible approach to finding these proposed savings. They will provide Congress with a good starting point for consideration of the overall 2012 budget proposal by the President.” “These ideas for savings cover a wide range of issues from civilian personnel and healthcare changes to adjustments to complex weapons programs such as the Joint Strike Fighter, so it is clear that the Secretary has done a thorough and comprehensive review of DOD operations.” “As Secretary Gates explained, proposed defense budgets will continue to grow and the United States will retain the strongest military in the world. That is assured. However, he recognizes that in an era of massive budget deficits all parts of the government must be examined closely, including the Department of Defense. I strongly agree with him in that regard.” ###
12.16.2010	Tonight, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after being elected to serve as the next Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee: “It is an honor to be selected by my colleagues to represent them as the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee in the 112th Congress. I would like to applaud Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez and Congressman Silvestre Reyes for a hard fought race. They are both very intelligent and dedicated Members of Congress and I look forward to working with them in the days ahead as we work to address our nation’s most pressing national security challenges. “As Ranking Member, I will continue to be a strong advocate for our military personnel and their families. I am committed to providing them with the benefits and support they deserve for their years of faithful service. “I am committed to providing our Armed Forces with the best equipment and resources available to carry out their current and future missions. At the same time, it must be a priority to ensure that the Pentagon spends taxpayer dollars in the most efficient and effective manner.? This also includes carefully examining our current policies and working to eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse. “In Afghanistan, we must make certain that there is a clear policy that brings about the security and stability of the country while working toward responsibly drawing down our military forces. It is my fundamental belief that we need to draw down our troops as soon as we responsibly can. Frequent, long, and repeated deployments have put a strain on our military, our budget, and have had a negative impact on our foreign policy. “Moving forward in the next Congress, the Democratic Caucus needs knowledgeable leadership to represent their national security interests and principles. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the 112th Congress and providing the leadership our country needs to confront the great challenges it faces.”
12.14.2010	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation crafted by Congressman Adam Smith to support local tribes as they work to expand their business and create jobs. The bill (S. 2906), which will streamline the land leasing process and remove a significant bureaucratic burden for Washington State tribes, will now be sent to the President for his signature. S. 2906, the Senate version of H.R. 4401 introduced by Adam Smith, was sponsored by Senator Maria Cantwell and passed by the Senate in September. “The passage of this legislation is a big victory for our local tribes as well as our local economy,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Tribal businesses are a critical economic engine in our region and our state. In the current economic climate it is vitally important that we do everything we can to encourage economic growth and job creation. This legislation will help do just that.” “Passage of this legislation will provide excellent opportunities for the Puyallup Tribe to ignite its economic development,” said Herman Dillon, Sr. Chairman Puyallup Tribe of Indians. “In these down economic times, this legislation will help accelerate leasing opportunities with national and global partners. It will eliminate the risk of losing opportunities due to the lengthy approval process currently in place. It will not only benefit the Puyallup Tribe, but the Puget Sound region as well.The Puyallup Tribe would like to give special thanks to Congressman Adam Smith, Senator Maria Cantwell, Congressmen Norm Dicks, and Senator Murray for all their support and hard work in making this happen.”"” “The Puyallup Tribe of Indians is a valuable partner in our community’s cultural and economic vitality,” said John Wolfe, the Port of Tacoma’s chief executive officer. “We support these efforts to help the Tribe engage more readily in business opportunities that create jobs now and for future generations." The legislation will amend the tribal Long-Term Leasing Act to expand the ability of the Puyallup, Swinomish and Kalispell Tribes’ authority to lease tribally owned land, particularly for economic development initiatives. Specifically, S. 2906 will allow the Puyallup and Kalispel Tribes to enter into 99 year leases of land, and also removes the requirement that the Puyallup, Kalispell, and Swinomish Tribes seek the approval of the Department of the Interior for every business deal involving tribal lands. Currently, the Puyallup and Kalispel cannot enter into business leases longer than 25 years, and each of these three Washington state tribes cannot enter into any lease without the approval of the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA). This legislation would remove the requirement that the tribe seek the approval of the BIA for every lease it enters into once they adopt leasing regulations approved by The U.S. Department of the Interior. Once those regulations are in place the tribe would be able to enter in lease agreements lasting up to 75 years. Any lease longer than that would still be subject to the review of the BIA. ###
12.9.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement regarding his support for legislation that will fix a projected 25% cut in Medicare physician payments: “In order to prevent a 25 percent cut in Medicare physician payments next year and ensure patient stability, Congress passed a one-year fix to the sustainable growth rate (SGR) formula, which is used to calculate physician payments. The formula called for a 25 percent cut to physician payments next year, effective January 1, 2011. “With our seniors in mind, I supported this legislation because it will avert devastating cuts to Medicare and provide certainty for both patients and physicians. “However, this short-term solution is not enough. Congress must find a permanent and fully paid-for solution to the SGR problem so that physicians and patients are not repeatedly faced with pending, massive cuts. I will continue working with my colleagues to address these issues and I am hopeful that we will find a permanent solution for our nation’s doctors and seniors.” “The one-year fix to the SGR is fully paid for and will not add to the deficit.” ###
12.7.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in observance of Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day: “Today, let us pause to remember those who lost their lives on this day in 1941, when American forces at Pearl Harbor were attacked. From the first wave of the attack our brave men and women in uniform fought back as best they could, showing the spirit and resolve of a generation. Despite their brave actions, our nation suffered great losses that morning as we were thrust into World War II. Their sacrifice, and others who served in World War II, will not be forgotten. “We owe the men and women who serve in our Armed Forces a tremendous amount of gratitude and respect, and as we mark this solemn occasion let us take a moment to honor those who have served in the military or who are currently deployed in harms way.” ###
12.2.2010	Congressman Adam Smith recently returned from leading a Congressional Delegation to Afghanistan. The delegation met with U.S. and Afghan officials, U.S. and NATO commanders, and U.S. military personnel to assess the political, civil and military developments on the ground. “I recently had the opportunity to visit our service men and women in a number of different regions across Afghanistan and it is clear that they are doing a tremendous job in a very difficult situation,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “We are beginning to see some signs of success. They have created some space in regions where the Taliban was once prominent. This space is now allowing U.S. and NATO personnel to work with local partners and make progress toward establishing functional governance and civil institutions.” “While we are beginning to see some signs of progress,” continued Smith. “I remain very concerned about the high cost of our efforts and the challenges we continue to face in developing a reliable partner in the Afghan government. We have a significant national security threat in the region and we must make certain that there is a clear, more cost-efficient policy to both ensure the security and stability of Afghanistan and to responsibly draw down our military forces. Smith, who chairs the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Air and Land Forces, organized the trip to help educate key Congressional Members on civil, military and political counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism initiatives in Afghanistan. Specifically, the focus of the trip was on interagency cooperation, special operations, intelligence and development activities in Afghanistan. Smith formerly chaired the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, where he focused extensively on our nation’s counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism efforts in Afghanistan and other regions of the world. His committee work and extensive travel to Afghanistan and the region has allowed him to develop extensive knowledge of the national security challenges we face. ###
11.29.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in reflection of the shooting which killed four Lakewood Police Officers a year ago: “One year ago today, four Lakewood Police Officers were the target of a heinous, senseless crime. As we reflect on this tragic day, let us honor and remember their sacrifice and service. These valiant officers lost their lives working to keep our communities safe and they will never be forgotten. Our thoughts and prayers also continue to be with their friends, family and loved ones. “The horrific murder of these officers, committed by a criminal originating from a state hundreds of miles away, is a vivid reminder of the risks our police officers face each and every day. While there is nothing we can do to bring them back, we can honor their loss by working to help prevent an act like this from occurring again. “In the days and months since that dreadful day, we have not only mourned with gatherings and vigils, but also with action to help prevent this sort of tragedy from happening again. Earlier this year, the Interstate Commission for Adult Offenders Supervision, the body that governs the release and supervision of convicted felons across state lines, adopted changes to the compact between states that will help prevent similar tragedies from happening again. “I will continue to do what I can to protect and support the men and women who work to keep our families and our communities safe.” ###
11.23.2010	Congressman Adam Smith, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Air and Land Forces, released the following statement in response North Korea’s artillery attack on South Korea’s Yeonpyeong Island: “This reckless behavior displayed by North Korea is an unacceptable act of aggression against South Korea, a long-standing ally of the United States. I am concerned about the threat not only for the citizens of South Korea but also for U.S. military personnel stationed on the Korean Peninsula. “I join my colleagues and the Administration in strongly condemning the actions of the North Korean military. These hostile actions by the North Korean regime are the latest in a series of belligerent nuclear ambitions and military actions that have escalated tensions in the region and cannot continue. “The United States is committed to maintaining peace on the Korean Peninsula. Additional escalation of hostilities between North and South Korea is not in the interest of either country, the United States or the international community. I urge all parties to practice restraint and focus on defusing this situation. “ ###
11.18.2010	U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke announced that he will lead a high-tech trade mission to India early next year. The mission is designed to help U.S. companies enter the Indian market or build on existing operations. It will highlight export opportunities for a range of sectors including specialized materials, aerospace, information and communication technologies among others. Given the high-quality products available from the Puget Sound Region, Congressman Smith strongly encourages local businesses and business leaders to apply to participate in this trade mission. “India’s market is one of the fastest growing in the world and the growth is projected to continue. At the same time, the U.S.-India trade relationship is becoming increasingly important for American exporters. I encourage all eligible local business leaders and companies to take advantage of this opportunity,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “As our region looks to recover and create jobs, we must take advantage of every opportunity. The Puget Sound Region is particularly strong in products from sectors such as technology and civil aviation that India desires. We should seek to build a stronger, mutually beneficial relationship with India as well as other growing economies throughout Asia.” The business development trip will take place February 6 through 11, 2011 and will travel to New Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore. Participating firms and business leaders will join the Secretary and export financing agency officials to promote U.S. exports in a broad range of advanced industrial sectors, including civil-nuclear trade, defense and security, civil aviation, and information and communications technology. For more information, visit: www.trade.gov/IndiaMission2011. The deadline to apply is November, 30 2010. The U.S.-India trade relationship continues to grow in strength. From 2002 to 2009, U.S. goods exports to India quadrupled, growing from $4.1 billion to $16.4 billion. U.S. exports to India through the first eight months of this year are up 17.5% and are on target to reach an all-time high of $19 billion. Trade in advanced technologies – the focus of Secretary Locke’s upcoming trade mission to India – was a key driver in much of this growth.
11.11.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in observance of Veterans Day: “On Veterans Day, we remember those who put country above themselves. We remember the service of millions of Americans who put their lives on the line to protect our freedoms and our way of life. Without their service, our nation would not be safe from those who wish to do us harm – and today we express our deep gratitude for that service. “On this Veterans Day, let us remember that our veterans need and deserve our committed support. We must always remember that even after they step out of their uniforms and put down their weapons, many of our veterans are still in harms way. Many continue to face enormous challenges such as homelessness, unemployment, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and other lasting effects from their service. On Veterans Day, let us reaffirm our commitment to providing the resources and support necessary to address the issues affecting our veterans’ community. “I will continue to be an advocate for the brave men and women who have served in our Armed Forces as well as their families.”
10.15.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), who co-authored a pair of bills designed to address the deficiencies in the interstate compact system that governs the release and supervision of convicted felons across state lines, praised the Interstate Commission for Adult Offender Supervision for adopting changes that will enhance public safety. In light of the Lakewood Police Officer Shootings last year, Smith and other local lawmakers have been pushing hard for these rule changes, which were proposed by the Washington State Department of Corrections. In addition to the legislation, Smith sent a letter earlier this year encouraging the commission to act on Washington State’s recommendations. “The tragic shooting of four police officers in Lakewood last November clearly demonstrated the need to change how states interact in regard to out-of-state felons,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Our local law enforcement agencies do a tremendous job keeping our communities safe, and we must do what we can to protect them and provide them with the information and tools they need to do their job. These rule changes help to do just that.” The rule changes provide states that receive offenders more authority to send them back if they pose a significant risk to public safety. It also provides states with more complete criminal histories before agreeing to supervise offenders from other states. These rule changes will take effect on March 1, 2011. “As a former prosecutor, I understand how access to information and resources can protect and greatly improve the effectiveness of our law enforcement officials,” continued Smith. “These rule changes are good for public safely and are good for our law enforcement officials.” ###
10.13.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) recognized the importance of a more than $1 million Hazard Mitigation Grant received by Pierce County to help reduce the risk of flooding in the Lower Puyallup River Riverside and Clear Creek area. “Our communities continue to face the possibility of flooding and we must do everything we can to protect them,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “This grant will help to restore the natural floodplain and reduce the risk of flooding in the Lower Puyallup River Riverside and Clear Creek area.” The $1,074,428.00 in funding is being awarded to Pierce County through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Hazard Mitigation program. The funding will be used to acquire flood damaged properties located in the Lower Puyallup River Riverside and Clear Creek area (south of SR 167 and west of the City of Puyallup). The flood damaged properties will be cleaned up and allowed to revert back to natural and beneficial riverine floodplain function and conditions. ###
10.8.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Air and Land Forces, released the following statement on today’s announcement that General James L. Jones will be stepping down as National Security Advisor: “As National Security Advisor, General Jim Jones has been a tremendous asset to our country. He has worked diligently to protect our nation from the threats we face from violent extremist. Throughout his career, he has built a distinguished record of public service and his talents and knowledge will be missed. I look forward to working with recently appointed National Security Advisor Tom Donilon and continuing the important work of protecting our nation.” ###
10.8.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) announced that $19,722,515 is being allocated for lending to small businesses in Washington State, a key step of implementing the just-passed Small Business Jobs Act. States can now apply for their allocation. This effort will spread $15 billion in new small business lending through innovative local programs that help entrepreneurs expand their businesses and create new jobs. Congress recently passed the Small Business Jobs Act to spur economic growth and create new jobs by providing much-needed lending to millions of small businesses, and offering 8 new tax incentives to companies, so that they can expand, hire, and fuel our economy. “Small businesses are the engine of our economy and are central to creating American jobs and rebuilding the economy for the future,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “This investment of nearly $20 million and new tax cuts will provide an important boost to small businesses and help them grow and flourish. I encourage local officials to move quickly on this opportunity.” Through this part of the Small Business Jobs Act, states have the opportunity to apply for federal funds for programs that partner with private lenders to extend credit to small businesses. States are required to demonstrate a minimum “bang for the buck” of $10 in new private lending for every $1 in federal funding. Accordingly, the $1.5 billion investment from the federal government is expected to support $15 billion in additional private lending. In addition to the State Small Business Credit Initiative, the Small Business Jobs Act will help America’s 27 million small businesses with eight tax cuts totaling $12 billion that went into effect last week. It will make small businesses more competitive with big corporations by spurring up to $300 billion in private sector lending for small businesses through community banks and extending and expanding existing Small Business Administration low-cost loans. Finally, this bill is fully paid for and will not add a dime to the deficit. ###
10.1.2010	With Congressman Adam Smith’s support, Congress passed and the President signed into law legislation that will bolster access to capital for small businesses. The legislation, H.R. 5297, The Small Business Lending Fund Act of 2010, creates a $30 billion fund that local community banks can access specifically for the purpose of small business lending. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and our communities - we must continue to support their efforts to grow and create jobs,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “I frequently hear from small businesses owners who simply do not have access to capital, or face lending terms that are completely untenable. If our economy is to recover, the lending environment must improve and this fund will help local banks to reengage in the type of small business lending that helps our local economy flourish.” The bill also provides $12 billion in tax incentives targeted at small businesses. Most notably, it reinstates an expired tax provision that allows businesses to write off half the cost of new equipment purchased and placed in service this year. On Monday, September 27th, the President signed the bill into law.
9.29.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) praised today’s announcement that the Federal Way Police Department will receive $1,036,292 from the Department of Justice COPS Hiring Program (CHP) to preserve four law enforcement jobs. “This funding is crucial to ensuring that Federal Way remains a safe place to live, work and raise a family,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “In the current economic environment, cities and towns across the country face difficult choices when it comes to public safety funding. Today’s announcement will help relieve some of that pressure and allow Federal Way to continue to focus on its public safety priorities.” The grant, which is the largest awarded in Washington State, is part of a $298 million announcement made by the Department of Justice COPS Office, COPS Hiring Program (CHP). The grants are designed to create and/or preserve law enforcement jobs. The grants were made to 379 different local law enforcement agencies in 51 states and territories. CHP provides funding to address the full-time sworn officer needs of state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies nationwide. CHP grants go directly to law enforcement agencies to hire new and/or rehire career law enforcement officers in an effort and to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. CHP also provides 100 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years (36 months) for newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions (including filling existing unfunded vacancies) or for rehired officers who have been laid off, or are scheduled to be laid off on a future date, as a result of local budget cuts. Any additional costs above the approved entry-level salaries and fringe benefits are the responsibility of the grantee agency. “A safe community is a strong community and ensuring that our local law enforcement agencies have the tools and resources they need will continue to be a top priority of mine in Congress,” continued Smith.
9.15.2010	“From reports today on the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) interim ruling I believe it is clear that Europe vastly exaggerated their claims against Boeing. While the interim ruling found that American policies caused some harm to Airbus, their impact was significantly less than the harm caused to Boeing by Europe’s market distorting illegal subsidies, or “launch aid.” "Earlier this year, the WTO found that illegal subsidies to Airbus distorted the industry, shifting market share toward Europe and away from the U.S., impacting thousands of American aerospace jobs. "Going forward, I will be carefully reviewing the details of the WTO’s final ruling when it is released and will continue working with the United States Trade Representative in an effort to restore market balance for our aerospace workers." ###
9.10.2010	Washington, Sep 10, 2010 - Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement honoring the anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks: Nine years ago, the morning of September 11, 2001 was interrupted by senseless acts of terrorism that took the lives of thousands of Americans in New York, Washington, DC, and Pennsylvania. As we remember this sad day in our nation’s history, our thoughts and prayers go out to the friends and families of those who lost their lives. While this anniversary marks a solemn occasion in our history, it is also a time to honor the first responders who lost their lives that day while attempting to save others, and our military personnel who made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of the freedoms and security that each of us enjoy as Americans. Their sacrifice will never be forgotten. ###
8.19.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in tribute to the 4th Stryker Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, which was officially designated the last combat brigade to leave Iraq under Obama's plan to end combat operations in Iraq by Aug. 31. “The troops stationed at Joint Base Lewis-McChord have born the brunt of the conflict in Iraq – they have been there since day one, and are now the last combat forces to leave. Many of them have lost their lives, and many more have been injured. These soldiers have sacrificed greatly, and I salute their service. They deserve our utmost respect and I will continue to work in Congress to ensure that the veterans of this conflict receive the benefits and support they deserve. “While our role in Iraq is not yet finished, our combat operations are. Many of our nation’s finest men and women are no longer in harm's way and they should be commended for a job well done. The Iraqi people face difficult times ahead, but they have the promise of a brighter future - a future void of tyranny. A brighter future for Iraqis also means greater security for America. The military personnel at Joint Base Lewis-McChord played a vital role in our efforts in Iraq and we can all be proud of their service.” ###
7.30.2010	“Today marks an important milestone in our efforts to protect the Green River Valley from flooding. This afternoon, the Army Corps of Engineers laid out the details for interim repairs that will strengthen the Howard Hanson Dam. Yesterday, the President signed into law the Fiscal Year 2010 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill, which provides the Army Corps of Engineers with $44 million to complete these interim measures. These two events are the culmination of many months of hard work by my office, as well as the entire local delegation and stakeholders from across the state, and will protect the Green River Valley from potentially very destructive floods. “The interim measures will buy us vital time and protect the Green River Valley as we work to put in place a permanent, long-term solution. The livelihoods of tens of thousands of people are at risk if flooding was to occur and the interim measures announced today provide the residents of the Green River Valley the protection and assurance they deserve. “I worked tirelessly with other members of the local delegation and stakeholders to secure this funding. I applaud everyone involved for their diligence and hard work and I look forward to working with them to ensure a long-term fix is achieved.”
7.29.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) continued to build on his strong commitment to veterans, military personnel and their families by supporting the fiscal year 2011 Military Construction and Veterans Appropriations bill. The legislation invests in projects and programs of critical importance, including veteran’s benefits and healthcare, and military family housing, barracks and mission critical facilities. “The men and women who have served in our armed forces, along with their families, have made tremendous sacrifices and they deserve our full commitment and support,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “The legislation passed by the House demonstrates our commitment by working to provide our veterans and their families with the benefits and support they deserve.” Generally, the FY2011 Military Construct and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill provides $120.8 billion for veterans’ programs, a 10% increase over the previous year’s budget. These funds will help continue to strengthen health programs and improve benefits and compensation. As with the previous bill, this year’s bill provides advanced appropriations for medical services and facilities to ensure that the Veterans Health Administration receives reliable and timely funds to ensure care for veterans is not disrupted. The bill also provides important funding to help veterans suffering from conditions such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and traumatic brain injury (TBI), provide assistance to homeless veterans, and improve access to care to veterans living in rural areas. The legislation also provides more than $200 million in funding for the construction and refurbishing of key military projects and facilities at Joint Base Lewis-McCord. This funding is essential to the continued modernization and expansion of the base. In addition to supporting this important legislation, Smith recently introduced and the House passed a pair of bills that support Veterans and military families. These bills, coupled with today’s vote, demonstrate an unwavering commitment to our nation’s military, veterans and their families. “Together, these bills will help address significant problems plaguing our military community – high unemployment in our veterans population and the strain placed on families when their loved ones are deployed,” said Smith. ###
7.27.2010	Today, Congress approved $44 million for interim measures to strengthen the Howard Hanson Dam and protect the Green River Valley. Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), who has consistently been a leader in coordinating efforts to fix the dam, played a critical role in ensuring that the funding was included in the final version of the bill. The funding, included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill, will allow the Army Corps of Engineers to complete a set of interim repairs to the dam. The bill will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. “This money is critical to our efforts to prevent flooding in the Green River Valley. It will put in place interim measures to buy us time until a permanent, long-term solution is put in place,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “My priority is to achieve a permanent fix to the Howard Hanson Dam and restore long term flood protection, but until this can be achieved we must make every possible effort to protect the residents, homes, businesses, and the economy of the Green River Valley. This money is vital to that effort.” Engineers from the Army Corps continue to closely monitor the dam and have identified interim repairs that will allow the dam to store higher levels of water and protect the Green River Valley during severe rain events. The Fiscal Year 2010 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill contains $44 million in emergency funding for these critical repairs to the Howard Hanson Dam. Smith worked diligently to ensure these resources were contained in the final version of the appropriations bill. Tens of thousands of people are at risk if the Green River Valley were to flood. In addition to the threat to peoples’ lives, the Green River Valley would suffer enormous negative economic impacts as it is home to the second largest industrial park on the West Coast, and is the fifth largest in the nation. Over 95,000 jobs in the area make up approximately 8 percent of all jobs in King County. This represents $107 million per day in total economic output – 12 percent of Washington State’s gross state product. ### ###
6.30.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement regarding his vote in favor of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act: “It is clear that our financial system is in dire need of reform. The serious abuses that have come to light in the last few years are of great concern and we must change how Wall Street does business. Today, Congress passed the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act - a strong step forward in reforming our financial regulatory systems. “The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act provides significant protections for the American consumer and gives federal regulators the tools they need to reign in the irresponsible actions by Wall Street that did so much damage to our economy. The legislation establishes a new independent watchdog with the authority to ensure American consumers are offered safe, non-predatory products when they shop for mortgages, credit cards, student loans, and other financial products. “The bill reforms the mortgage lending industry by eliminating many of the abusive practices that helped lead to the recent massive spike in foreclosures. Additionally, for the first time this legislation also limits some of the riskiest activities of banks and regulates the multitrillion-dollar market of over-the-counter derivatives. These are key reforms. “Assessing the impact of institutions on our financial markets as a whole is a crucial piece of the needed reforms. This legislation creates a council of regulators to watch for systemic risks, authorizes regulators to impose restrictions on large, troubled financial companies and creates a process for the government to liquidate failing companies and banks at no cost to taxpayers. “The irresponsible behavior in our financial markets inflicted serious pain on the American people, costing millions their jobs, incomes, savings, investments and homes. This is unacceptable and the system must be reformed. It is vitally important that we have a strong financial system which can spur economic growth, jobs and American ingenuity. It is also equally important that we ensure transparency and accountability within that system to prevent the abuses that severely damaged our financial system and brought our economy to its knees. The legislation passed by Congress today is a strong step forward toward achieving these goals. “ ###
6.30.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) issued the following statement in response to the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) final ruling that launch aid to Airbus is an illegal subsidy: “Today’s ruling makes it clear that Airbus airplanes have been illegally subsidized by the European Union governments. This ruling is a big win for Washington state aerospace workers and companies. “Participating in trade with our global partners boosts the American economy and the American worker, but when our partners do not abide by their obligations under existing trade agreements it puts our businesses and workers at a disadvantage. We must demand enforcement of our agreements. “Today’s ruling agreed with U.S. claims that, rather than competing on a level playing field with U.S.-built aircraft, European governments provided Airbus with an unfair competitive advantage, shifting market share toward Europe and away from U.S. aircraft manufacturing jobs. “In light of this ruling, European governments and Airbus should immediately end their practice of launch aid, comply with the WTO’s ruling, and cease all plans for illegal subsidies to future planes. Boeing workers are among the best in the world and can compete directly in the aerospace industry but, in order to do so, we must ensure that the policies of our trading partners and international businesses comply with global trade rules.” ###
6.26.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement regarding his vote in favor of legislation that will fix a projected 21% increase in Medicare physician payments: “Last night the House passed a six-month fix to the sustainable growth rate (SGR) formula used to calculate payments to physicians through Medicare. Without the fix, the formula called for a 21 per cent cut to physician pay for this year, effective June 1. I was disappointed that Congress was unable to work together to solve this problem by the June 1st deadline and prevent uncertainty and frustration for Medicare beneficiaries and their physicians. Thankfully, the bill passed last night will reverse these cuts and increase Medicare physician payments by 2.2 per cent through November 30, 2010. “While I am pleased that the short-term solution passed will give Medicare beneficiaries and their physicians a small amount of certainty for the next few months, it is not enough. Congress needs to find a permanent solution to the SGR problem so that physicians and patients are not faced with pending massive cuts every few months. I will continue to work with my colleagues to address this issue and am hopeful that in the weeks and months ahead, we will find a permanent, paid for solution to this issue.”
6.24.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in response to House passage of legislation designed to impose tough economic sanctions against Iran: “Today, Congress provided President Obama with additional tools to pressure Iran to cease its efforts to build nuclear weapons. A nuclear armed Iran would destabilize the Middle East and pose a grave threat to the United States, our allies, and particularly Israel. This scenario is unacceptable. “We cannot allow Iran to continue to act in a way that threatens the international community and its neighbors in the region. This legislation builds on the recent U.N. Security Council Resolution and will help forcefully pressure Iran to meet its international obligations. “In concert with the international community, it is critical that the United States continues to pursue both diplomatic and economic avenues to hold Iran accountable. While there is more diplomatic work to be done, the bill passed by Congress today is another way to increase economic pressure on Iran to change its behavior.” ###
6.18.2010	This week, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) voted in support of important legislation designed to make it easier for small businesses to succeed and create jobs in our communities. Together, the Small Business Lending Fund Act and the Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act, will address the lack of access to credit and remove some of the restrictive tax obstacles impeding small business growth. "Small businesses are the foundation of our economy – generating approximately 65% of new jobs over the last 15 years and employing our families, neighbors, and friends,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Our nation’s long term economic stability relies on small businesses and we must continue to enact legislation and remove government barriers to help them grow.” The Small Business Lending Fund Act will create a $30 billion lending fund to help small businesses expand through investments in states and small banks that focus on lending to local small businesses. The bill will also help cultivate American innovation through a new public-private partnership designed to channel early stage investment capital to promising new start-ups. To further ensure small businesses have every opportunity to succeed, the Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act will help businesses expand and create new jobs through a 100% exclusion of small business capital gains; small business penalty relief; and increased deductions for start-up expenditures. These two bills, which are fully paid for, will now move together as one for consideration by the U.S. Senate.
5.28.2010	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement regarding the upcoming Memorial Day weekend: “As Americans across the country gather with friends and family to celebrate Memorial Day weekend, we should all honor the sacrifice and service of the men and women in our armed forces. Far from the safe harbor of America’s shores, thousands of men and women have put aside their own safety to ensure ours. We owe them our deepest gratitude and respect. “Holidays like Memorial Day provide us with an opportunity to come together as a nation and reflect on the ideals and values that unite us. As intense debates continue to swirl around a wide range of issues of national importance, the principles that bind us can sometimes be lost. So this weekend, let us all reflect on one thing I know we all can agree upon: the men and women of our armed services do a tremendous job keeping us safe and defending our nation. They are true patriots and serve as a source of pride for a grateful nation.” ###
5.25.2010	Today, two key pieces of legislation sponsored by Congressman Adam Smith moved closer to the President’s desk for signature. The pair of bills, The Veterans to Work Pilot Program Act and Military Family Leave Act, will support military families when their loved ones are deployed and will spur job opportunities for veterans when they return from their overseas duties. “The men and women of our armed forces and their families make tremendous sacrifices to serve our nation and keep us safe. It is our obligation to ensure they are provided the support that they deserve,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Together, these bills will help address significant problems plaguing our military community – high unemployment in our veterans population and the strain placed on families when their loved ones are deployed.” The Veterans to Work Pilot Program Act of 2009, which Smith introduced in November of 2009 has been incorporated into the National Defense Authorization Act of 2011. The legislation passed the House of Representatives today and now must pass the Senate before it can be signed into law. The legislation expands job opportunities by creating a 5-year pilot program to enroll military veterans in apprenticeship programs and employ them on military construction projects. The legislation would specifically require the Secretary of Defense to designate at least twenty military construction projects per year where, to the maximum extent feasible, the utilization of veteran apprenticeship labor would be required. At the end of each year, and at the conclusion of the pilot program, the Secretary would be required to submit a report to Congress that, among other things, evaluates the benefits of employing apprentices who are veterans on Military Construction projects. The Military Family Leave Act of 2009, which was introduced by Smith in July of last year, was also incorporated into the National Defense Authorization Act of 2011 by amendment. The bill would provide two weeks of unpaid leave to the spouse, children, or parents of a member of the military who receives notification of deployment or is currently deployed. While the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act added a provision to the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) allowing military families to take time off for a number of reasons connected with a deployment, not all employees were made eligible under that earlier law. The Military Family Leave Act of 2009 seeks to ensure that all military families have the ability to take two-weeks of unpaid leave in response to an upcoming or current deployment of spouse, parent, or child. ###
5.25.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith, Chair of the Air and Land Forces subcommittee, voted in support of the FY 2011 National Defense Authorization Act, a bill which makes record investments in our nation’s military. In addition to providing a 1.9 percent pay raise for our military personnel, the legislation lays out a balanced strategy to provide the resources we need to sustain the wars of today as well as prepare for the wars of the future. “This bill is vitally important to our national security and I am proud of the support it provides to our troops and their mission to keep us safe,” said Congressman Smith. “I believe it strikes the right balance between fighting the conflicts of today, while preparing our forces for the challenges of the future.” The legislation also includes some important provision for Washington State and the 9th Congressional District such as: $184.9 million for military construction projects at Joint Base Lewis-McChord $65 million for the Department of Defense Impact Aid program, which assists school districts serving the children of families stationed at Joint Base Lewis-McChord. Extends TRICARE coverage to cover dependent children up to age 26. $1 billion for 83 new Stryker vehicles, vehicle upgrades, and research and development. $700 million for the separate National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account, for a total of $7.2 billion overall for Guard and Reserve procurement. A provision put forth by Smith requiring Department of Defense to report on the impacts of illegal subsidies related to the KC-X tanker competition and whether such subsidies provided an unfair competitive advantage. In general, the NDAA authorizes $726 billion for Fiscal Year 2011 military activities including the Department of Defense, the national security programs of the Department of Energy (DoE), military construction projects, and other defense and military personnel activities related to U.S. national security efforts. The bill must be approved by the Senate before the President can sign it into law. ###
5.20.2010	Today, Air and Land Forces subcommittee Chairman and local Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 that will help shine a spotlight on the impact of illegal foreign subsidies on American defense industry workers and companies. The move pushes the Department of Defense to report on the impacts of illegal subsidies related to the KC-X tanker competition and whether such subsidies provided an unfair competitive advantage. "We cannot allow illegally subsidized foreign companies to take jobs and contracts away from American workers and companies through an unfair advantage,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “For example, if it turns out that Airbus is able to offer a lower bid than Boeing on the KC-X Tanker contract because they were illegally subsidized, then we should push the Department of Defense to take those subsidies into account. My amendment offered today will do just that." The FY2009 National Defense Authorization Act required the Department of Defense (DOD) to review the impacts of subsidies related to the KC-X tanker contract after the World Trade Organization (WTO) releases its ruling and submit a report to Congress. Currently, DOD must initiate a review 10 days after WTO’s ruling is made public, which is expected this June. However, DOD is not required to complete its review until 90 days after the appeals process is final, and will not report to Congress until 30 days after completing the review. This means that any report on the impact of subsidies will not be made until after the KC-X tanker contract is awarded this fall. To ensure that DOD considers the impact of subsidies this year, the amendment would require an interim report be submitted 60 days after DOD initiates the review required by current law. The interim report from the Secretary of Defense is directed to contain detailed findings on the impacts of illegal subsidies related to KC-X and whether such subsidies provided an unfair competitive advantage. The report must be submitted 60 days after the WTO’s ruling is released in June. The amendment was adopted by a voice vote. Amendment language attached here.
5.20.2010	Congressman Adam Smith’s legislation to create jobs for Veterans has been reported out of committee as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for 2011 and is expected to be voted on the House Floor next week. The bill, Veterans to Work Pilot Program Act, will expand job opportunities by creating a 5-year pilot program to enroll military veterans in apprenticeship programs and employ them on military construction projects. “We should be doing everything possible to ensure that our military personnel come home to good, family-wage, quality job opportunities,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “By calling upon the Department of Defense to explore the utilization of veteran apprentices in military construction projects, we are working to find innovative ways to help our veterans secure employment and ease the transition into civilian life.” The legislation would specifically require the Secretary of Defense to designate at least twenty military construction projects per year where, to the maximum extent feasible, the utilization of veteran apprenticeship labor would be required. At the end of each year, and at the conclusion of the pilot program, the Secretary would be required to submit a report to Congress that, among other things, evaluates the benefits of employing apprentices who are veterans on Military Construction projects. ###
5.19.2010	Air and Land Forces Subcommittee Chairman Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement regarding his vote in support of the fiscal year 2011 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “This is a critically important bill, which ensures our brave men and women in harms way have the resources they need. This year’s bill builds on the Committee’s efforts to support our military personnel, provide our forces with the equipment they need to perform today’s missions, and also ensuring that our military is properly resourced and postured to meet the future threats of the 21st century. “The bill provides for a 1.9 percent pay raise for our military personnel, which is 0.5 percent higher than the President’s budget request. I am also pleased to see that the bill includes an authorization of $50 million for the Department of Defense Impact Aid program, which assists school districts serving the children of families stationed at Joint Base Leiws-McChord. “Additionally, in order to fund our reserves and National Guard at the appropriate level, this legislation provides an additional $700 million for National Guard and Reserve equipment. “As the Chairman of the Air and Land Forces Subcommittee, I am pleased to see this legislation fully fund the President’s budget request related to the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) Vehicle and the Stryker Vehicles, the Unmanned Aerial Vehicles and other Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Systems, as well as other vital equipment and systems used by the Army and Air Force. “This bill is vitally important to our national security and I am proud of the support it provides to our troops and their efforts to keep us safe. I believe it strikes the right balance between fighting the conflicts of today, while preparing our forces for the conflicts of the future.” The bill must be approved by the Full House of Representatives and the Senate before the President can sign it into law. ###
5.3.2010	On Friday, April 30, 2010 Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) visited Fort Huachuca in Sierra Vista, Arizona where he was briefed on how we train our Army’s unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and intelligence operators. Smith was also briefed on the work being done at the fort to provide soldiers with cultural and language training. This training helps to ensure soldiers are aware of the cultures in which they will be deployed. Smith, chairman of the Subcommittee on Air and Land Forces and member of the Intelligence committee, said the trip provided valuable insight into what is done on the Arizona post and the important roll it plays in our national security. “The work being done at Fort Huachuca is extremely important to our national security,” said Congressman Smith. “Our UAV and intelligence operators play an important roll in protecting our national security and they are receiving some of the best training in the world at Fort Huachuca. Additionally, the training being done at the fort provides our soldiers with the knowledge and understanding of other cultures that can often times be the different between a community supporting U.S. efforts abroad or the mission of our adversaries.” The nearly daylong tour of the post included visits to a new training village built on the post that will provide more realistic experience for soldiers who will go to Iraq or Afghanistan. The day also included touring unmanned aerial systems and a stop at the Training and Doctrine Command’s Culture Center, which helps soldiers understand the importance of cultural differences. ###
4.28.2010	Today, Air and Land Forces Subcommittee Chairman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after House approval of H.R. 5013, the IMPROVE Acquisition Act of 2010, bipartisan legislation to overhaul the defense acquisition process: “The existing acquisition process of the Department of Defense takes far too long and often times breeds excessive cost overruns. The process is susceptible to waste, fraud, and abuse. This must change. The current defense acquisition process must be reformed. When the system fails, it fails our troops and it fails the American tax payer. “The legislation passed by the House today will help ensure that our brave men and women in uniform get the equipment they need to do their job in a more efficient and timely fashion. The legislation will overhaul the defense acquisition process by enacting four common sense reforms: establishing a better accountability system, improving the management of the acquisition workforce, creating an auditable financial management system at DOD, and expanding and strengthening the industrial base. “These reforms, while not a panacea, are expected to save the taxpayer $135 billion over the next five years. That is a substantial amount of money, and these are substantial reforms. I applaud Congressman Rob Andrews and Congressman Mike Conaway as well as all the member of HASC who worked so hard on this issue over the last year.” ###
4.28.2010	On Tuesday, April 27 2010, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) received the Goodwill National Policymaker Award for 2010. Smith recently sponsored legislation (H.R. 4299) to help expand the workforce training capacity of organizations like Goodwill. He has continued to be a strong supporter of local Goodwill initiatives and projects such as the Milgard Work Opportunity Center, which recently opened in Tacoma, WA. “For over 100 years, Goodwill has demonstrated an unwavering commitment to helping individuals in need develop the skills necessary to succeed,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “This work is not only inspiring, but it also builds strong communities and families. They deserve our continued praise and support.” “Congressman Smith has consistently supported Goodwill’s positions on our key legislative priorities, both on a national and local level,” said Terry Hayes, CEO of the Tacoma Goodwill Industries, who nominated Congressman Smith for the award. At a reception in Washington, DC, on Tuesday, April 27, Smith was recognized and thanked for his ongoing concern for issues relevant to Goodwill. The reception was part of Goodwill Industries International’s fourth Advocacy Day — “Invest in the American Worker.” Goodwill Industries International is a network of 180 community-based, independent agencies in the United States, Canada, and 13 other countries. Goodwill agencies are innovative and sustainable social enterprises that fund job training programs, employment placement services and other community-based programs by selling donated clothing and household items in more than 2,400 retail stores and online. ###
4.22.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) introduced legislation to aggressively address the soaring unemployment rates within our veteran’s community. The Veterans Employment Assistance Act of 2010 includes a series of proposals that will expand training and education opportunities, enhance the ability to transition technical military skills to the civilian workforce, and improve small business assistance programs for veterans. “Our veterans have risked their lives to protect our country and our freedom and they deserve quality, well paying jobs when they return home,” said Congressman Smith. “While this seems like common sense, often times our veterans struggle to find work when they return home. The Veterans Employment Assistance Act takes a comprehensive approach to create new opportunities and expand existing support programs for our veterans.” The Veterans Employment Assistance Act expands job training, placement services and entrepreneurship opportunities for veterans who may otherwise have fallen through the cracks of existing programs. The Veterans Employment Act: Establishes an apprenticeship pilot program that would encourage the employment of veterans on military construction projects. Expands the Post-9/11 GI Bill to allow returning veterans to use the benefit for apprenticeship and on-job training programs that will help them acquire the skills they need to find stable, family-wage jobs in their communities. Establishes a Veteran Business Center Program within the Small Business Administration (SBA) to provide critical entrepreneurial training and counseling to veterans. Creates pilot programs to test ways transitioning servicemembers can build on the technical skills learned in the military and better market those skills in the civilian workforce. Establishes a Veterans Conservation Corps Grant Program and a Veterans Energy/Green Jobs Grant Program to connect veterans with the green jobs market. Click HERE for a full section-by-section summary or HERE for the full text of the legislation. ###
4.21.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) and Congressman Scott Murphy (NY-2) introduced legislation today to provide new incentives to locate jobs here in the United States and make America more globally competitive. “Over the last few years, millions of hard working Americans have lost their jobs due to the recession,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “While the economy is beginning to show signs of recovery, we must do more to support hardworking Americans. The America Recruits Act will help do just that by encouraging job growth in expanding fields, while also incentivizing companies to create new, economically viable job opportunities in the United States rather than abroad.” Specifically, the America Recruits Act would create a new program within the U.S. Department of Commerce to provide forgivable loans for up to $10,000 for each new high-tech and manufacturing job relocated from a foreign country to a high unemployment area in the US. This forgiveness would help defer the costs of setting up the new jobs back in the United States. Below is more information about the America Recruits Act: Loans of up to $10,000 per job would be awarded by state, local or regional economic development agencies for use in augmenting their overall incentive package. These agencies would be required to provide at least a 25% match. Loans would be interest-free, and would be disbursed in two, $5,000 per-job-per-year installments to the employer. If the firm lives up to its promise to bring back eligible jobs, its initial installment will be forgiven after the first year. This would make the firm eligible for the second loan installment of $5,000. If the firm retains the eligible jobs for the entire second year of the loan, the second installment will also be forgiven at the end of the second year. If a loan recipient fails to honor its commitments, it must repay the first installment and would not be eligible to receive the second. If it fails to make the second certification, it must repay both installments. Loans could not be used to move a job from one state to another. They are designed to provide an incentive to locate jobs in America that currently are located overseas. It is estimated that the legislation could create nearly 24,000 direct and indirect jobs. ###
4.20.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement regarding Defense Secretary Robert Gates’ speech today recognizing the importance of export control reform: "I am pleased to see that it remains a priority for the Obama Administration to make progress on reforming our export controls, which currently undermine our national security by making it difficult for U.S. companies to compete internationally. “Restricting U.S. companies from competing internationally threatens to erode our country’s position as a leader in military and dual-use goods and technologies. That in turn hurts the innovation and viability of American industry and may one day make us reliant upon international companies for these vital technologies within our defense apparatus. That undermines our national security. "To be clear, we must not pull back all restrictions on military and dual-use exports. What we must do is strike a balance between more stringently protecting information and goods that would otherwise expose our national security and allowing U.S. companies to compete with goods and technologies that are readily available and legally traded on the global market. That is why I’ve been working in Congress to support the kind of comprehensive reforms announced today by Secretary Gates. These reforms seek to strike that balance. They aim to strengthen our export control regime and protect our national security by streamlining the system. “My hope is that the Administration will continue to both consult Congress and those who use the system as they work to implement reforms and build a better system. The status quo not only hinders U.S. companies, but creates the real possibility that we may one day have to rely on foreign companies for our defense needs. “Today’s speech by Secretary Gates is a promising sign that the Administration recognizes the serious problems with our current export control regime and is committed to a solution.” ###
4.20.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith, Senator Patty Murray, Senator Maria Cantwell, Congressman Dave Reichert, Congressman Norm Dicks, Congressman Jim McDermott, Congressman Jay Inslee, Congressman Brian Baird and Congressman Rick Larsen sent a letter to Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp urging the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to make unused funding available for short term fixes to protect the tens of thousands of residents and 95,000 jobs of the Green River Valley from catastrophic flooding while permanent fixes to the Howard Hanson Dam are underway. “As we all know, a permanent fix for the Howard Hanson Dam is not a simple task, and that such construction projects take time to execute properly and safely. We appreciate the hard work of the Corps to quickly complete the study and design phase,” wrote members of Congress. “In order to ensure the well-being of the people and the region while the permanent fix is completed, it is imperative that the Interim Risk Reduction Measures move forward as quickly as possible. We realize that this may involve reprogramming funds previously appropriated to other projects, but as you are aware, this project is critical to the safety of our constituents and the economy of the Green River Valley, and therefore should be a priority for any unspent Corps funding.” A copy of the full letter appears below. Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp U.S. Army Chief of Engineers and Commanding General U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 441 G Street, NW Washington, DC 20314-1000 Dear Lieutenant General Van Antwerp: Thank you for your ongoing leadership and work on a permanent fix for the Howard Hanson Dam in Washington State. We write to express our continued concern about the level of protection offered by the Howard Hanson Dam and the increased flood risk it poses to the Green River Valley. We appreciate the progress that has been made to date on interim measures, including an initial grout curtain, work on the dam’s drainage tunnel, and deployment of flood barriers in the most vulnerable areas. The result of this work has reduced the estimated probability of flooding from 1 in 3 to 1 in 25, which has been an important achievement toward improving the safety of those who live, work, or own businesses in the Green River Valley. As you may know, tens of thousands of people are at risk if the Green River Valley were to flood. In addition to the threat to peoples’ lives, the Green River Valley would suffer enormous negative economic impacts as it is home to the second largest industrial park on the West Coast, and is the fifth largest in the nation. Over 95,000 jobs in the area make up approximately 8 percent of all jobs in King County. This represents $107 million per day in total economic output – 12 percent of Washington State’s gross state product. Until the full protection offered by the Howard Hanson Dam is restored, it remains difficult for residents and businesses in the Green River Valley to feel secure. Toward that end, we have been briefed by Major General William Grisoli and other Northwest Division-based officials on additional Interim Risk Reduction Measures for the dam that will further reduce the risk of flooding to an estimated probability of 1 in 140 by extending the grout curtain over a deeper and wider area of the right abutment. We understand that this will allow the dam to store higher levels of water for short periods of time and protect the Green River Valley from several severe rain events, at a cost of $44 million. It is our intent to continue to work closely with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to come up with funds to allow the Corps to move forward expeditiously with the Interim Risk Reduction Measures as outlined to us, as well as moving forward with a long term solution. Given the enormous economic consequences to the Green River Valley, and that we are currently in the middle of an appropriations cycle, it is imperative that the Corps work diligently to find funds within its budget. Therefore, we request that you, without delay, critically review and assess your budgets and previously obligated funds to determine the availability of funding to reprogram for this vital project. We ask that you look at all previously appropriated funds, including regular order appropriations, previously appropriated disaster or supplemental funds, and American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds. It is our understanding that the Interim Risk Reduction Measures are ready to go and construction on an extended grout curtain can begin quickly once funding is made available. As we all know, a permanent fix for the Howard Hanson Dam is not a simple task, and that such construction projects take time to execute properly and safely. We appreciate the hard work of the Corps to quickly complete the study and design phase. In order to ensure the well-being of the people and the region while the permanent fix is completed, it is imperative that the Interim Risk Reduction Measures move forward as quickly as possible. We realize that this may involve reprogramming funds previously appropriated to other projects, but as you are aware, this project is critical to the safety of our constituents and the economy of the Green River Valley, and therefore should be a priority for any unspent Corps funding. Thank you for your attention to this request, and we look forward to hearing back from you on the availability of funding for the Interim Risk Reduction Measures at Howard Hanson Dam. ###
3.31.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) issued the following statement in response to the Department of Defense’s announcement that the Request for Proposals (RFP) deadline for the KC-X Tanker may be extended by an additional 60 days: "After multiple setbacks to replace the aging fleet of aerial refueling tankers, I am extremely disappointed to hear that the Department of Defense may once again delay the procurement process. "Replacing the current, aging fleet of tankers is the Air Force’s top acquisition priority. It’s critical that we replace these aging aircraft and provide the warfighters with a new tanker that will meet their current and future mission requirements. A decision to extend the RFP by an additional 60 days will only further delay the warfighters’ access to this valuable equipment. "While I believe that a fair, open, and transparent competition will benefit both the taxpayer and the warfighter, the original RFP timeline provides adequate time for potential bidders to evaluate the requirements and submit a viable proposal for consideration by the Department of Defense."
3.25.2010	Today, Reps. Adam Smith (WA-09), Jay Inslee (WA-01) and Dave Reichert (WA-08) co-introduced a pair of complementary bills in the House seeking to address the deficiencies in the interstate compact system that governs the release and supervision of convicted felons across state lines. Companion bills were introduced in the Senate by Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL). On November 29th, 2009, four Lakewood, Washington police officers; Sergeant Mark Renninger, Officer Ronald Owens, Officer Tina Griswold, and Officer Greg Richards were murdered by a convicted felon from Arkansas who had been living in Washington State following the commutation of his sentence. The legislation, crafted by the local lawmakers and working in coordination with Governor Christine Gregoire, law enforcement and federal agencies, purposes solutions that would improve information-sharing and best practices at all levels of law enforcement. Legislation would also require the U.S. Department of Justice to review existing rules governing interstate transfers of adult offenders, to best ensure public and officer safety. “As a former prosecutor, I understand how important it is for law enforcement agencies to share information across federal, state, and local jurisdictions,” said Rep. Adam Smith. “Last November, we saw the disastrous outcome of a break down in this communication. Based on lessons learned from this tragic shooting, the legislation introduced today seeks to address the shortcomings of current interstate policies and will protect and empower our law enforcement officials.” “The lessons of this tragic event cannot be ignored,” said Rep. Jay Inslee. “The system, as it is, failed to safeguard those charged with protecting and serving us. By revisiting the rules and tools states and law enforcement use to communicate with each other, and by making some simple, common sense changes, we can prevent these mistakes from happening again.” “Our law enforcement officers put themselves at risk every day to keep our families and communities safe, and we need to do everything possible to protect those who protect us,” said Senator Patty Murray. “We honor the memories of our fallen officers by learning the tough lessons and making sure that it never happens again. We also need increased vigilance to ensure that other states are not allowed to dump their criminals into our communities, that’s why we’re calling for a rigorous review of the rules and improved communication at every level to prevent a tragedy like Lakewood from happening again.” For the last few months, Members have been working with the experts who were tasked by Governor Gregoire to review the incidents leading up to Lakewood tragedy and make recommendations to change existing policies. Members worked with expert staff at Washington State Department of Corrections and Washington Association of Sheriff’s and Police Chiefs to determine that in order to prevent future incidents, federal legislation is needed to ensure that the Interstate Compact rules are rigorously reviewed and all states act in good faith to protect all communities that host interstate offenders. # # #
3.24.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) issued the following statement on the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) final ruling that launch aid to Airbus is an illegal subsidy: "Today’s ruling makes it clear that Airbus airplanes have been illegally subsidized by European governments. These governments violated WTO rules by providing below market rate loans to develop Airbus planes. "These illegal subsidies distorted the industry in favor of Airbus planes. As the U.S. regains its foothold in the global marketplace and continues to recover economically, it is essential that we fight to restore market balance for American workers. Ensuring that governments and businesses are compliant with international trade rules is an important component. In its final ruling the WTO has sided with U.S. officials, agreeing that rather than competing on a level playing field with U.S.-built aircraft, the European governments provided Airbus with an unfair competitive advantage, shifting market share toward Europe and away from U.S. aircraft manufacturing jobs. "European governments and Airbus should end their practice of launch aid, comply with the WTO’s ruling, and cease all plans for illegal subsidies to future planes. Boeing workers are among the best in the world and can compete directly in the aerospace industry but, in order to do so, we must ensure that the policies of our trading partners and international businesses comply with global trade rules."
3.21.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after his vote in favor of the health care reform legislation passed by the House of Representatives this evening: “With the passage of this legislation today, we have reached an historic milestone in the long fight to reform our health care system. While the legislation is not perfect, it represents a significant step toward achieving the very difficult goals of reining in exploding health care costs and expanding access to care. “After more than a year of discussions, this legislation brings together ideas from both sides of the aisle and it stands as our best opportunity to move forward on reform. Simply put, with this vote today we have categorically rejected the status quo. “Yesterday, I released a much more detailed statement on why I support this legislation to reform our health care system. To view my statement from yesterday click here.” ###
3.20.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in support of the health care reform legislation expected to be considered by Congress tomorrow: “There are far too many people in our country who either do not have insurance or are underinsured, and the cost of insurance is escalating at unacceptable rates. We have to cover more people and get costs under control now. “These are very, very difficult goals to accomplish. For over 75 years, Republicans and Democrats alike have bemoaned the current health care system. It costs too much, covers too few, and often doesn’t provide the best results. If we’ve discovered anything in our pursuit for reform, it’s that this is a difficult issue to address - but that is not a reason to avoid the problem. If we are truly committed to addressing these issues, we cannot simply rage against what is wrong; we must do what we can to fix them. “I support this legislation because it is the best available step forward for reform. With health care costs ever increasing, we need leadership on these tough issues. The option before us is imperfect, but it begins the process in a substantial way. The fact that reform is controversial should not be a reason to avoid it. Supporting change now demonstrates leadership. “This bill will cover an estimated 30 million additional Americans and save more than $1 trillion in the long term. These are huge steps forward in the reform process. These two key facts make it imperative that we pass this legislation and move forward now. “The legislation before us is better than the House bill that was passed in November. It does a much better job of getting costs under control. The numbers demonstrate that this legislation will not only help reduce costs in the short term, but also help bend the long term cost curve. The legislation moves forward on rewarding quality of care over quantity. We would begin to shift away from the failed fee-for-service model that encourages high levels of utilization without regard to the quality of that care. Instead, it encourages accountable care organizations (ACOs), which emphasize overall quality of care over the sheer number of visits, tests, and referrals. We will have to monitor and adjust these policies as we move forward and see how they are implemented, but they will actively work toward controlling costs and improving the quality of health care in this country. “This legislation includes a number of ideas from both sides of the aisle, such as portability, which allows insurance companies to sell insurance over state lines. It also encourages employers to provide incentives for their employees to manage controllable health factors known to lead to long term health issues. These incentives will help create an overall healthier society, and encourage individuals to control their own health care costs. “Americans will be touched directly by the improvement in care. In addition to no longer being denied coverage due to pre-existing conditions, Americans will have access to a greater choice of plans at more affordable rates. The quality of care will also improve as doctors are rewarded for quality rather than quantity of care. “Further, this legislation empowers states to be the drivers of reform - not the federal government. States have the ability to set up the exchanges to help individuals find quality health insurance, and states will be the primary regulators of insurance companies, rather than the federal government. “Over the last year, we have seen an extraordinary level of engagement from the American people about reform. In fact, in all my years a legislator, I have never seen this level of involvement from my constituents. This is a promising sign for the vitality of our civic culture and I hope we continue to see this level of participation as we move forward to address the many difficult issues our country faces. “This vote is not by any means the end of Congress’ work to improve health care in this country. If this legislation passes tomorrow, the months and years ahead will be filled with the continued work to improve upon these ideas, learn from our mistakes, and work toward a system that is sustainable and provides access to quality health care for all Americans. “Health care is an incredibly difficult issue to address, but I believe that I was elected to make difficult decisions, not to hide from them. Leadership is about making the tough choices and I have chosen to support this legislation to give Americans the opportunity to have a better health care system.” ###
3.10.2010	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement regarding Northrop Grumman’s decision to not bid on the aerial refueling tanker contract: “While it is unfortunate that the Air Force will not have the KC-X competition we had hoped for, I am pleased to see that we can now move forward with providing our men and women in uniform with a new tanker that will meet their current and future mission requirements. “With Northrop Grumman’s decision to withdraw from the bidding process, Boeing now stands as the sole company vying to build the next generation of aerial refueling tankers. While I am confident in Boeing’s ability to provide a high quality product; I intend to be diligent in my role as the Chairman of the Air and Land Forces Subcommittee to ensure we are providing our war fighters with the best possible product at the best possible price for the taxpayer.” ###
3.2.2010	Today, in response to a letter sent on February 4th, Senators Murray and Cantwell and U.S. Representatives Smith, Reichert and Inslee met with Army Corps officials to receive a briefing on the path forward on a permanent fix to the Howard Hanson Dam. Attending the meeting on behalf of the Corps were General Grisoli, Army Corps Civil Works Commander, Brigadier General McMahon, Northwest Division Commander and Colonel Wright, Seattle District Commander. After the meeting, the delegation released the following joint statement: “This evening’s meeting provided an opportunity for our delegation to meet with officials at all levels of the Army Corps to reiterate the importance of this issue and discuss a path forward for a permanent fix for the Howard Hanson Dam. “We were pleased to hear that the Army Corps has an estimated timeline, including tentative plans for future budgeting and completion of phases, as well as how federal resources would be most effectively utilized. “In addition, following the meeting, the Army Corps confirmed it would be releasing a more comprehensive and complete issue sheet to local stake holders. It is important that our local partners and officials have the most up to date information moving forward. “Over the last year, we have been in constant contact with the Army Corps and other key partners to ensure they have the resources and support necessary to permanently fix the weaknesses with the Howard Hanson Dam. We are committed to restoring the dam’s full operating capacity for the protection of the Green River Valley and will continue to work with the Army Corps to ensure we provide them with what they need to get the job done.” ###
2.26.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement regarding House passage of H.R. 2701, the FY2010 Intelligence Authorization Act: “I am pleased to see that H.R. 2701, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 passed the House of Representatives today. This bill clarifies our policies, provides vital funding and authorities for our intelligence community in the field and strengthens Congress’ ability to conduct oversight. “This bill fully supports our intelligence community. It provides the resources and tools necessary for our intelligence professionals to address emerging threats around the globe and provides more than ample resources to address our current conflicts. It also installs additional safeguards and mechanisms that enhance Congress’ ability to carry out its oversight responsibilities. “This legislation makes important investments to maintain current satellite manufacturing capabilities and encourages the intelligence community to continue to work with the commercial imagery industry to improve them. It also encourages the Administration to review ways to improve the ability of the U.S. aerospace industry to be more internationally competitive. Intelligence support is essential to effectively administer the regulation of our exports and this legislation clarifies that the Director of National Intelligence has a role in supporting a review of our controls. "We must do more to reform our export control regime, which currently jeopardizes our national security by making it difficult for U.S. companies to compete internationally. Restricting U.S. companies from competing internationally threatens to erode our country’s position as a leader in military and dual-use goods and technologies. That in turn hurts the viability of American industry and will make us reliant upon international companies for these vital technologies within our defense apparatus and that undermines our national security. "To be clear, we must not pull back all restrictions on military and dual-use exports. What we must do is strike a balance between more stringently protecting important information that would otherwise expose our national security and allowing U.S. companies to compete with goods and technologies already readily available and traded on the global market. Right now our current regulatory regime is not only hindering U.S. companies, but it is also creating the real possibility that we may soon have to rely on foreign companies for our defense needs – and that undermines our national security. This is an issue that must be addressed. “Further, this bill makes significant investments to enhance our cybersecurity capabilities – the intelligence community needs the ability to stop threats that arise in cyber space and respond quickly and with the best technologies.” ###
2.25.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) testified before the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity regarding a bill he introduced last July, the Military Family Leave Act of 2009. The bill provides military families with the ability to spend time with their deployed or deploying loved ones or take time off of work to address personal or family issues that may arise in connection with a deployment. Specifically, the legislation would provide two weeks of unpaid leave to the spouse, children, or parents of a member of the military who receives notification of deployment or is currently deployed. To see Congressman Smith testify before the Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity click here. More about the Military Family Leave Act While the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act added a provision to the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) allowing military families to take time off for a number of reasons connected with a deployment, not all employees are eligible under current law. The Military Family Leave Act of 2009 seeks to ensure that all military families have the ability to take at least two-weeks of unpaid leave in response to an upcoming or current deployment of a loved one.
2.24.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after being briefed this morning on the Air Force’s Request for Proposals (RFP) for the aerial refueling tanker: “I am pleased to see that the Department of Defense and the Air Force are moving forward with Request for Proposals (RFP) for the aerial refueling tanker. It is critical that we replace our current aging fleet and provide the warfighters with a new tanker that will meet their current and future mission requirements. “After several delays, the new RFP seems to have addressed a number of concerns raised in the last round of bidding, and will factor in the operation costs of the aircraft over its service life. Though the changes are minor between the draft and the final RFP released this afternoon, the RFP seems to more clearly lay out the overall criteria being used in the selection process and will help clarify the bidding process. “As the Air Force moves towards the goal of awarding a contract in September, I will continue to follow the process closely to ensure the competition is fair, open, and transparent so that all proposals are evaluated on equal merit. Any contract awarded must provide the best product to support our men and women in uniform in the most cost effective way possible. “Again, I am happy to see that the Air Force is now moving forward with providing our men and women in uniform with this vitally important piece of equipment. I hope that the new RFP will lead to an equitable and open tanker competition and ensure the mistakes of the past are not repeated.”
2.4.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) reaffirmed his commitment to restoring fiscal discipline and reducing our nation’s deficit by voting for pay-as-you-go legislation. The legislation ensures that all new spending is paid for and does not add to the deficit. “I supported pay-as-you-go legislation in the 1990s and I strongly support it now,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “In order to restore our economy and ensure long term, sustainable economic viability we must reign in government spending and reduce the federal deficit. PAYGO helped to take us from deficits to surpluses in the 1990s, and it will do so again” The PAYGO bill passed today is a critical part of Congressional efforts to restore fiscal discipline. It is based upon the bipartisan PAYGO law that was in place in the 1990s and helped turn massive deficits into record surpluses. The 1990s PAYGO law was allowed to expire in 2002, which contributed to the dramatic turnaround from a surplus of $236 billion in 2000 to average deficits of more than $443 billion annually for the past 8 years. PAYGO laws will once again help protect against reckless, debt-financed tax cuts and spending increases, while ensuring that we prioritize investments in critical areas like job creation, education and health care that will strengthen our economy. ###
2.4.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith, Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, Congressman Dave Reichert, Congressman Norm Dicks, Congressman Jim McDermott, Congressman Jay Inslee, Congressman Brian Baird, and Congressman Rick Larsen sent a letter to Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp urging the Army Corps of Engineers to continue working at full speed to complete the study phase of the Howard Hanson Dam fix and move into the design and construction phase of the project. The delegation called on the Corps to explain in full how they plan on completing the study phase by June, 2010 in order to ensure that the project can be considered for fiscal year 2012 construction funding. The delegation also requested a meeting with Major General William T. Grisoli, Deputy Commanding General for Civil and Emergency Operations, to review this timeline and impress upon him the importance of this project for families and businesses in the Green River Valley. Members of the delegation also requested a conference call with Army Corps leadership and local officials to discuss the Howard Hanson Dam project and give them an opportunity to ask additional questions. “Our priority at the federal level is to achieve the safest and fastest permanent fix to the Howard Hanson Dam, which requires no delays in the study, design, and construction of the project…This decrease in the probability of flooding is a critical achievement. However, it is difficult for those who live, work, or own businesses in the Green River Valley to rest easy until the full protection offered by Howard Hanson Dam is restored.” the members of the delegation said in the letter. The full text of the letter follows: February 4, 2010 Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp U.S. Army Chief of Engineers and Commanding General U.S Army Corps of Engineers 441 G Street, NW Washington, DC 20314-1000 Dear Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp A little more than one year ago, severe storms and record water levels held behind Howard Hanson Dam damaged the dam’s earthen abutment, resulting in a reduction in the amount of water that can safely be stored behind the dam. Left unchecked, the flood protection the dam could provide at that point in time was estimated at a one in three probability of flooding. Since that time, the federal, state, and local governments have worked together to provide interim measures of protection until a permanent fix for the dam can be fully implemented to restore flood protection to the full authorized levels. Progress has been made and due to those interim measures, including the completion of the grout curtain, work on the dam's drainage tunnel, repair and improvement of levees, and deployment of flood barriers in the most vulnerable areas, the estimated probability of flooding has decreased to one in thirty. This decrease in the probability of flooding is a critical achievement. However, it is difficult for those who live, work, or own businesses in the Green River Valley to rest easy until the full protection offered by Howard Hanson Dam is restored. Our priority at the federal level is to achieve the safest and fastest permanent fix to Howard Hanson Dam, which requires no delays in the study, design, and construction of the project. It is our understanding that the study phase of the project is progressing at an aggressive pace and has a goal of completion in June of this year. Given the realities of the federal budget process, it is imperative the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) achieve this goal in order for the construction project to be included in the fiscal year (FY) 2012 President's budget submission to Congress. Furthermore, the completion of the study in June provides ample time for the USACE to focus efforts on the design phase of the project for the remainder of FY2010 through FY2011, allowing for full advantage to be taken of construction funds in FY2012. We would like clarity on the policy regarding the progression of construction projects as they move from the completion of a study into the design and engineering phase. To review this timeline, the ultimate completion of the project, and to discuss the importance of achieving it, we respectfully request a meeting with Major General William T. Grisoli, Deputy Commanding General for Civil and Emergency Operations. We view his experience as former Commander of the Northwestern Division as an invaluable asset. This experience affords him a local perspective of the importance of Howard Hanson Dam, not only to those living downstream but for the economic engine it protects in the region. We are looking forward to working with Major General Grisoli as well as we did with his immediate predecessor, Major General Temple. Additionally, we request the participation of a member of your direct team in a conference call with our local elected leaders. The inner workings of the USACE are not an intuitive process and leaves those working through it with many questions. In particular, it has become evident that prior experience with the USACE does not directly translate when working on a dam safety project. It would be most helpful to have these important differences acknowledged and directly addressed in a forum that offers time for questions to be asked and answered by the USACE with one voice. We are acutely aware that a permanent fix for Howard Hanson Dam is not a simple task and that such construction projects take time to execute properly and safely. Thank you for your attention to these requests. We look forward to your response regarding the timeline as we have laid it out and the immediate next steps necessary to achieving it. Sincerely, ###
2.3.2010	Today, the House of Representatives adopted an amendment put forth by Congressman Adam Smith, which will help to strengthen our cyber security capabilities. “Our country faces threats from numerous cyber-attacks each day,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “It is imperative that we ensure our cyber workforce not only possesses the knowledge and skills necessary to defend our networks, but also the ability to collaborate with the many departments and agencies within the Federal Government who lead the effort to combat these threats.” Smith’s amendment to The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2009 seeks to ensure that our cyber workforce – including IT professionals at civilian agencies, who may not deal with classified information on a daily basis - has the ability to collaborate with the Department of Defense, Intelligence Community, and other Federal agencies on cyber-related threats that out of necessity may be classified. Specifically, the amendment modifies Section 107 of the bill, which calls for the President to submit a report to Congress addressing the cybersecurity workforce needs of the Federal Government. The amendment requires the report to also examine the current security clearance and job suitability requirements that may currently serve as a deterrent to hiring an adequately trained cyber workforce. The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2010 would reauthorize and expand cybersecurity research programs at the National Science Foundation (NSF) and National Institute of Standards and Technology. Additionally, the measure would create a new cybersecurity scholarship program, require agencies to develop a strategic cybersecurity research plan and establish a university-industry task force to explore public-private research partnerships.
2.1.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in commemoration of Black History Month: “In the pursuit of the dream put forth by Carter G. Woodson – the founder of Black History Month – let us celebrate and appreciate the accomplishments of the many African Americans who have helped shape our nation. “From the arts to government, the sciences to medicine and every other facet of American life, African Americans have made significant contributions that have helped make the United States the greatest country on earth. Over the next month, Americans should take stock of these contributions and accomplishments and appreciated their significance and value.”
1.27.2010	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement regarding the President’s State of the Union Address: “As the President outlined tonight, our nation faces a number of difficult challenges. We currently have a growing national deficit, rising unemployment, two wars abroad - which are also dramatically increasing the number of veterans we must support here at home - and a health care system that does not work for tens of millions of Americans. “Additionally, due to nearly a decade of excessive federal spending and irresponsible behavior on Wall Street, at end of 2008 and into early 2009, our economy plummeted into a deep recession, which has exacerbated many of the problems we face. While the President and Congress have done much to address these problems over the past year, we must do more – much more. Congress and the President must now press ahead with more urgency than ever before to move our country back toward prosperity and stability. “I will work tirelessly with the President and my colleagues in Congress – from both sides of the aisle - to ensure we are addressing these problems and working to create jobs, rebuild our economy, get the deficit under control and provide for our men and women in uniform as well as our veterans.” ###
1.21.2010	Today, Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement after being named the new Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Air and Land Forces: “I am honored to have the opportunity to serve as the new chairman of the House Armed Services Committee’s Air and Land Forces Subcommittee (ALF). This is a vitally important subcommittee, with jurisdiction over all Army and nearly all Air Force acquisition programs, many of which face immense challenges. I look forward to working with my colleagues to address the important challenges that lie ahead. Striking the appropriate balance between the immediate and future needs of our Army and Air Force is one of the most pressing questions this committee will face. In my new role, I will continue to work to ensure that our men and women in uniform not only have the equipment and support they need today, but well into the future. While I will be taking on a new role on the Committee, I am and will remain interested and engaged in my work on the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee (TUTC). I find my work on TUTC to be incredibly rewarding and extremely important to our national security. However, the opportunity to serve as Chairman of ALF offers a different perspective on these issues and represents new opportunities to work on other issues paramount to our national security. Again, I appreciate the support of my fellow committee members and look forward to working with Chairman Skelton, my colleagues on ALF, TUTC and the entire House Armed Services Committee to address all the national security challenges we face.” ###
12.22.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in regard to the President’s appointment of Howard Schmidt as White House Cybersecurity Coordinator: “The President’s appointment of Howard Schmidt as Cybersecurity Coordinator is wise and much needed. Cybersecurity is a vitally important aspect of our national and economic security and we need a coordinated federal policy to thwart threats that originate or operate in cyberspace. Howard Schmidt is an excellent choice to help lead this effort. “I applaud the President for this appointment and will continue to work though my role as Chairmen of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities to support Mr. Schmidt in his efforts to develop and coordinate our national cybersecurity policy.” ###
12.11.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in regard to his vote in favor of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act: “In order to protect hard working Americans and our overall economy, we must ensure that the financial firms that engaged in the risky and unsafe practices that led to last year’s financial crisis are not permitted to return to business as usual. Today we have taken a significant step toward achieving this goal. “The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act lays out a comprehensive set of reforms that will modernize America’s financial regulations and hold financial firms accountable. For example, this legislation puts in place tough new rules that will prevent financial institutions from becoming “too big to fail,” and stops risky and irresponsible behavior before it threatens to bring down the entire economy. It will also place new regulations on derivatives and other complex financial instruments that can inflict serious damage to our overall economy. “This legislation also creates a new agency to protect consumers and ensure they are not being targeted or taken advantage of by risky or unfair financial products and lending practices. For far too long, Americans have not been adequately protected against predatory lending abuses and industry gimmicks. Additionally, there has been little authority to ensure products across various financial sectors won’t drive our economic system into a crisis. Today, by passing these commonsense regulation reforms, this has come to an end.” ###
12.1.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), who recently returned from a trip to Afghanistan and Pakistan, released the following statement in response to the President’s speech on Afghanistan: “It is clear that we face an enormous and difficult challenge in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Taliban, al-Qaeda, and other extremist groups in the region have a complex set of relationships spanning across the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, and these ideologies pose a grave threat to the United States and our allies. If the Taliban were to regain control of substantial portions of Afghanistan, or recapture the government they would provide al-Qaeda a safe haven from which to operate, and we can not allow this to happen. “At the same time we face the limitation of what an outside force can accomplish in a nation like Afghanistan, the deficiencies of our current partners in the Afghan Government, and the cost in lives and dollars of our presence in Afghanistan. Ultimately, I believe that we need a strategy to contain the threat in this region. A strategy that recognizes we cannot completely eliminate the Taliban or completely rebuild Afghanistan, but one that focuses on building the capabilities of Afghanistan’s security forces and improves the effectiveness of the Afghan Government. By focusing on these key elements, we can not only contain the threat posed by the Taliban and al-Qaeda but also reduce and eventually eliminate our presence in Afghanistan. “I believe the President outlined such a plan tonight. It will not be easy, and I will continue to closely monitor the progress of this effort, but I believe the President made a strong case tonight that is worthy of our support.”
11.29.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in regard to the shooting that killed four police officers in Lakewood this morning: "Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families and loved ones of the police officers killed this morning in Lakewood as well as all those who work at the Lakewood Police Department. "This is a senseless tragedy. The targeting of police officers is a particularly heinous crime and I urge all members of the community to cooperate with law enforcement officials as they hunt down the individuals involved. I will work with the Lakewood and Pierce County officials to help provide any assistance they may need to deal with and recover from this terrible tragedy." ###
11.18.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) introduced legislation to help ensure that veterans have quality, well-paying job opportunities. The bill, Veterans to Work Pilot Program Act of 2009, will expand job opportunities by creating a 5-year pilot program to enroll military veterans in apprenticeship programs and employ them on military construction projects. “We should be doing everything possible to ensure that the brave men and women who serve our country come home to good, family-wage, quality job opportunities when they return from their assignments abroad,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “By calling upon the Department of Defense to explore the utilization of veteran apprentices in military construction projects, we are working to find innovative ways to help our veterans secure employment and ease the transition into civilian life.” The legislation would specifically require the Secretary of Defense to designate at least twenty military construction projects per year where, to the maximum extent feasible, the utilization of veteran apprenticeship labor would be required. At the end of each year, and at the conclusion of the pilot program, the Secretary would be required to submit a report to Congress that, among other things, evaluates the benefits of employing apprentices who are veterans on Military Construction projects. “Our veterans, military personnel and their families make enormous sacrifices on our behalf, and they deserve our support and gratitude. I am proud to be a strong advocate for them in Congress and I will continue to seek ways to improve their quality of life and improve the benefits they receive for their service.” ###
11.18.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) voted to provide local firefighters with the tools and resources they need to prevent and fight fires, and keep our communities safe. “At a time when many towns and cities in Washington state are facing budget shortfalls and cuts to basic services, this bill helps to ease the burden on local fire departments by providing federal funding to help provide training, purchase equipment and vehicles, and hire personnel,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Countless lives are saved every day by the courageous efforts of first responders, firefighters and EMTs and we must ensure they get the resources they need to protect our communities.” Specifically, the Fire Grants Reauthorization Act of 2009 authorizes $1 billion in each of fiscal years 2010 through 2014 for the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Assistance to Firefighters Grants program, which provides funds for local fire departments and emergency medical services organizations to purchase equipment. It also authorizes $1.2 billion in each of fiscal years 2010 through 2014 for the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, which provides grants for hiring and retaining personnel. The bill also makes it easier for local fire departments to access these critical funds by lowering matching requirements and modifying time commitments, which will allow more fire stations to apply for the grants. Grant recipients would be required to match 10% of the grant’s funding, and the bill allows the Administrator of the program to waive or reduce the matching requirements for applicants that have demonstrated economic hardship. In fiscal year 2008, which is the most current data available, Washington state was awarded nearly $9.5 million through the SAFER Grant Program and nearly $11.4 million through the Assistance to Firefighters Program.
11.10.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in observance of Veterans Day: “In 1918, on the 11th hour, of the 11th day, on the 11th month major hostilities of World War I ceased. As the impact of this conflict began to set in and the world took stock of the damages one thing was clear: the valiant service of our brave men and women had defeated tyranny and pushed back the threat of terror. American ideals and the forces of democracy prevailed that day, and American service members led the way. This day, this moment in history, became known as Veterans Day. “In the years since, millions of Americans have worn the uniform, taken the oath and fought to keep America safe. Millions have perished in this pursuit, and countless more have been injured, but the bravery and valor of our soldiers has never wavered. These are the men and women that enable all aspects of the American way and stand as the safeguard that defends us from those who wish to do us harm. “America boasts the best-trained, most professional troops in the world. They and their families make enormous sacrifices on our behalf, and they have earned our support and gratitude. I am humbled by their service, and I am proud to represent so many of them in Congress. This Veterans Day, let us remember their courage, their sacrifices, and our commitments to them.”
11.10.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in regard to the memorial service at Fort Lewis today honoring seven local soldiers killed in combat on October 27, 2009. “Today, we honor the soldiers who died on October 27, 2009 and offer our condolences to their families and friends. As we saw on the tragic day when these seven brave soldiers were killed and with the confirmation of two additional Fort Lewis soldiers passing yesterday, our local military personnel continue to bear the brunt of the conflict in Afghanistan. “We owe our brave men and women in uniform our deepest gratitude, and not just when they make the ultimate sacrifice. As a member of Congress who represents thousands of our military personnel, their families and our Veterans, I am constantly working to ensure they the support and benefits they deserve. “Our local military personnel and their families play an important role in both our combat operations abroad and in our communities here at home. In combat, they are the brave men and women who selflessly put themselves in harms way to protect the greater good. At home, they are the individuals and families that make Washington state a wonderful place to live. For this, we are forever indebted to them.”
11.9.2009	Congressman Adam Smith released the following statement in response to the shooting at Fort Hood Thursday, November 5, 2009. A Memorial Ceremony to honor the victims of the shooting will be held tomorrow. “The recent shooting at Fort Hood is a grave tragedy. Our brave men and women selflessly put themselves in harms way to protect us and should not have to worry about incidences of violence taking place while on American soil. They face enough danger while they are abroad. “My thoughts and prayers are with the fallen and injured soldiers and their families. As we grieve for the lost soldiers and pray for the recovery of the injured, we should also reaffirm our broader commitment to ensuring that our military personnel and their families receive the benefits and support they deserve. “In the days and weeks ahead, I will play an active role in evaluating the incident and help to make policy adjustments to reduce the likelihood of a similar event occurring in the future.”
10.29.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) offered an amendment to H.R. 3854, the Small Business Financing and Investment Act, to expand health information technology loan guarantees to home health care agencies. “Our home health care agencies provide an invaluable service and we must provide them with the support they need to improve the quality of care for our seniors,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “These businesses provide efficient and effective services for patients at home rather than in more expensive facilities, saving money and preventing unnecessary hospital and emergency room visits. Expanding access to capital for these agencies will help to improve their delivery of care and reduce health care costs for our seniors.” A key provision of the bill includes a small business health information technology financing program that will create loan guarantees for up to 90 percent of the amount of a loan made to qualified, eligible professionals to be used for the acquisition and installation of health information technology equipment and programs. Initially, the program excluded home care agencies. Smith’s amendment addressed this omission by expanding the definition of an “eligible professional” under H.R. 3854 to include home health care agencies, making them eligible to receive loan guarantees for health information technology. Overall, this bipartisan bill will comprehensively expand the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) lending programs to spur job creation and meet the needs of American small business. It will help a range of small businesses including fledgling start-ups, established firms seeking to go public, veteran-owned businesses, rural and urban businesses in need, small manufacturers, health care providers, and entrepreneurs advancing American clean energy. The increased loan limits and guarantees included in this legislation are critical to supporting small business endeavors that bring about jobs and local economic benefits. This legislation will also complement the recently announced Treasury program that will make TARP funds available to local community banks in order to provide the capital necessary to increase lending to small businesses. For more information on this bill click here.
10.28.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement regarding Boeing’s announcement today to locate the second production line for the 787 outside of Washington state: “I am extremely disappointed that Boeing decided to locate the second production line for the 787 outside of Washington state. This development will have a negative impact on Washington and its workers and will send a substantial number of jobs and economic activity away from the state. “Throughout the years Washington state and its workers have provided Boeing with the incentives, support, and high-quality workers that have allowed it to become one of the world’s leading aerospace companies. Given this history and all that Washington state has to offer, it is extremely disappointing to see them push aside our workers and develop the second plant outside of the state. “I hope that this decision does not represent a larger shift in the company’s approach to doing business and that future Boeing decisions are based on the uniquely strong business environment and highly skilled, quality workers in Washington state. “I will continue to work with leaders in the congressional delegation and around the state to encourage economic growth in Washington and support workers and businesses as they strive to be industry leaders.”
10.22.2009	As the overall economy continues to show signs of life, our local small businesses continue to struggle to recover and access capital from our community banks. It is imperative that they receive the support they need in order to grow and add jobs. While many of the Federal Government’s efforts over the last year have helped stabilize our economy and financial sectors, they have not gone far enough. With these concerns in mind, the President has asked Congress to increase the maximum size of the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) flagship 7(a) loans from $2 million to $5 million. Additionally, he has requested an increase in the size limit on the SBA’s 504 loans, which primarily are used for real estate, to $5 million from $2 million for standard borrowers, and to $5.5 million from $4 million for manufacturers. There is a strong need for an increase in these loans and Congress must respond to assist our local economies recover. Additionally, to help make additional lending more feasible for our community banks – which provide most of the loans to our small businesses – the plan will lower the dividend rate for banks with less than $1 billion in assets from 5 percent to 3 percent. This will help our local banks support our small businesses. I am pleased to see that the President has acted to support these critical institutions in our communities and I will continue to make supporting our small businesses and community banks a top priority.
10.21.2009	Congressman Adam Smith and Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell and Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) have called on the Departments of Commerce and Interior to provide critical weather forecasting and river monitoring resources from the National Weather Service and the U.S. Geological Survey to address the flood threat posed by structural damage to the Howard Hanson Dam, in a letter sent yesterday afternoon. The representatives urged Commerce Secretary Gary Locke and Interior Secretary Ken Salazar to provide additional resources that may improve the accuracy of weather models and provide better data to local officials and the Corps as they work to minimize the threat of flooding. “In the event of a flood, it is vitally important that we make decisive, data driven decisions to mobilize our resources in the most effective and timely way possible,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “In order to do this, we must have the most accurate and up-to-date information at our disposal. These additional tools will help provide that information and allow authorities to make more informed decisions and better coordinate their efforts to prevent and mitigate flooding damage.” “This is about utilizing all available tools in order to take every possible precaution,” said Senator Murray. “This additional monitoring equipment can play an important role in providing the early and accurate warnings we’ll need to best protect homes, businesses, and residents in the event of a flood in the Green River Valley.” “Washington State experiences some of the worst weather in the nation, yet it has the worst weather radar coverage of any U.S. coastline,” said Senator Cantwell. “While I have been able to secure funding for a new Doppler Radar on the Washington Coast the additional tools we are requesting today could help Army Corps of Engineers better manage water flows on the Green River valley. Given that homes, businesses, and communities are at stake, we need to do everything possible to help deal with this winter’s storm season.” “Flood season is rapidly approaching, and the Corps needs every possible tool at its disposal to avert disaster,” Reichert said. “We are all working together to protect our citizens and their property, and having the most advanced radar systems, precipitation gauges, and technologically advanced infrastructure possible will assist us in mitigating a flood event that could wreak havoc throughout our region.” Specifically, the representatives requested the following: Additional Gauges With Telemetry – That the U.S. Geological Survey install additional precipitation gauges and gauges to measure flows into the Howard Hanson Dam in order to assist the Corps in deciding when and how much water to release; Relocations of Mobile Doppler Weather Radar Systems – That the National Weather Service relocate the Experimental Atmospheric River System (ARO) to Washington State this fall to enhance weather forecasting capabilities that inform Corps decisions about operations at the Howard Hanson Dam; and, Modeling and Computer Programming Staff and Technology – Additional staffing resources and technology would be beneficial in the event of a storm at regional National Weather Service (NWS) and Northwest River Forecasting Center (NWRFC) to update and fine tune forecasting models for the Green River Basin. The representatives have requested these agencies shift additional resources to the Northwest this fall to assist the Corps in making critical operational decisions related to the dam.
10.14.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) offered a resolution to pay tribute to the men and women of the Washington National Guard, including the members of the 81st Brigade Combat Team who recently returned from an overseas deployment in Iraq. To see Congressman Adam Smith speak on the House floor in honor of the Washington state National Guard click on the image below. To view the full text of the resolution click here.
10.9.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith, Senator Patty Murray, Senator Maria Cantwell, Congressman Norm Dicks, Congressman Jim McDermott, and Congressman Dave Reichert sent a letter to Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp, requesting that he personally visit Howard Hanson Dam and the Green River Valley to gain a firsthand perspective of the critical need for both long- and short-term flood mitigation solutions. In addition to requesting a visit from U.S. Army Corps leadership, the Members also wrote in the letter: “We are very appreciative of the $3.4 million that was granted in response to the Advance Measures request….The situation on the ground can change rapidly and we insist you preposition or identify ready sources of all necessary materials and equipment to respond as vigorously as possible to changing conditions. We continue to encourage the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to work diligently to find additional resources to help protect the valley against increased risks of flooding and be ready to aggressively flood fight” Members of the Congressional delegation are sending this letter to make sure that the increased risk of flooding and the Howard Hanson Dam repairs remain at the top of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ priority list. The delegation also wants to ensure that the Corps’ continues to work closely with the state and local entities to mitigate the impacts on the Green River Valley and assist in ongoing flood protection. Full text of the letter is below: Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp U.S. Army Chief of Engineers and Commanding General U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 441 G. Street, NW Washington, DC 20314-1000 Dear Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp, We write to express our continued concern about the effectiveness of Howard Hanson Dam and the increased flood risk to the Green River Valley. Additionally, we respectfully request that you personally visit Howard Hanson Dam and the Green River Valley to gain a firsthand perspective of the critical need for both long- and short-term flood mitigation solutions. We are very appreciative of the $3.4 million that was granted in response to the Advance Measures request submitted by Colonel Anthony Wright, the Commander of the Seattle District on September 12. This funding will help to provide sand bags and technical assistance for approximately 8.2 miles of affected levees along the Green River and increase the flood protection of those most vulnerable areas. The assistance and support of Colonel Wright and the Seattle District, who have been working closely with elected officials and emergency managers from all affected levels of government, continues to be appreciated. The situation on the ground can change rapidly and we insist you preposition or identify ready sources of all necessary materials and equipment to respond as vigorously as possible to changing conditions. We continue to encourage the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to work diligently to find additional resources to help protect the valley against increased risks of flooding and be ready to aggressively flood fight. As the Green River Valley communities will continue to face an increased flood risk over the next several years, we ask that you move swiftly to design, engineer, and fund the necessary repairs for Howard Hanson Dam. We appreciate the USACE's efforts to quickly implement interim repairs and study permanent solutions, and ask that you work with us to ensure this work can continue at a rapid pace. Thank you for your attention to this request. We look forward to your response.
10.8.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-Wash.) voted in support of the Conference Report to H.R. 2647, the fiscal year 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This legislation supports our men and women in uniform and their families, equips our troops with the tools they needs to fight current and future conflicts, and includes provisions to eliminate waste, fraud and abuse in the contracting process. Smith was also instrumental in securing more than $35 million to fund important projects in Washington state. “This bill places our policies and priorities exactly where they belong – on our troops and their families,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Program after program, this bill ensures that we are honoring the sacrifice of our troops and their families. It provides a 3.4 % pay raise, strengthens military health care and family support programs, and authorizes numerous other programs that will assist military families.” As Chair of the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities subcommittee, Congressman Smith plays an influential role in shaping our nations policies in combating violent extremists and ensuring our troops have the funding and resources they need to do their jobs and keep America safe. “As Chairman, I worked to ensure my subcommittee’s portion of the bill focused on some of our nation’s most important challenges; the fight against violent extremists, the development and deployment of innovative technology, and defending the homeland from catastrophic unconventional attacks. The bill provides our Special Operations Forces with more of the necessary equipment, authorities, and support required to complete their missions. It also authorizes vital science and technology research programs, and fully funds our efforts to defend against chemical and biological threats. ” The NDAA authorizes appropriations for fiscal year 2010 military activities including the Department of Defense, the national security programs of the Department of Energy (DoE), military construction projects, and other defense and military personnel activities related to U.S. national security efforts. The bill also authorizes funding for projects and programs in Washington state requested by Congressman Smith including: $9,000,000 – Military Construction to construct a joint base access road between Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base. $5,800,000 – University of Washington to expand the use of health care simulation technologies used by the Department of Defense. $5,000,000 – Seattle Biomedical Research Institute to conduct clinical trials on a second generation malaria vaccine. $4,000,000 – Lockheed Martin Aculight to develop a technology to address hearing loss in military personnel. $3,000,000 – FATE Therapeutics to develop a therapy and cure for hearing loss in military personnel and veterans. $2,500,000 – Tacoma Trauma Trust for trauma training of military medical personnel at local civilian hospitals. $2,500,000 – Agilent Technologies to develop a next generation system to detect and jam enemy communications, IEDs, and other electronic warfare threats. $1,800,000 – Sagem Morpho to develop a portable device that will be used by operators in the field to search, capture, and identity latent fingerprints. $1,000,000 – Quest Integrated to develop new inspection methods and procedures using magneto-optic imaging for F-15s that will eliminate the need to disassemble part of the aircraft. $1,000,000 -- Blood Cell Storage, Inc. to develop a system to allow military blood banks to monitor the viability of multiple platelet storage bags. The Conference Report must now be approved by the Senate before the President can sign it into law. ###
10.7.2009	Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement after voting in favor of the Veterans Health Care Budget Reform & Transparency Act: “As a member of Congress who represents thousands of military veterans and their families, I fully understand the obligation we have to provide them with the benefits and treatment they deserve. This bill helps live up to that obligation. “For the last 22 fiscal years, 19 VA Appropriations bills have failed to be enacted prior to the start of the fiscal year. These delays have inhibited the ability of the Department of Veterans Affairs to delivery high quality care to our veterans. To address this issue, this legislation will require that the President’s budget request, and appropriations bills passed by Congress, provide funding for medical related accounts at the VA for the coming fiscal year, and one year in advance. This will ensure the VA receives adequate resources in a predictable manner and have the time to plan how to deliver the best care to an increasing number of veterans. “By providing advanced appropriations for VA healthcare, we can assure that our nation’s veterans are not harmed by the political debates that may occur and delay the passage of appropriations bills. “I remain committed to our veterans and will continue to work diligently to provide them with the best and the most efficient benefits available.”
10.1.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-Wash.) voted in support of the 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, legislation that will help move America toward energy independence, protect the environment and rebuild our infrastructure. The bill also provides important funding for energy and water related projects in Washington state. Smith was able to secure funding for a number of important local projects. “This bill will help to restore, protect and maintain our local eco-systems and waterways. It will also help to spur innovation in our energy sector and modernize our infrastructure,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Additionally, because of the increased flooding risks demonstrated by the storms earlier this year, I worked to ensure that this bill includes funds to address flooding mitigation and related habitat restoration along the Puyallup River. While I was disappointed to see that the amount appropriated for the Puyallup River is less than originally requested, I am still pleased to see that our state will receive a significant amount of money to address these issues along this river.” The Energy and Water Appropriations Act invests in new technologies that will create the next generation of vehicles with improved fuel efficiency, better and cleaner engines and batteries. It also helps modernize our electric grid by investing in “smart grid” technology that will ensure efficient and reliable delivery of electricity to American homes and businesses. The bill increases funds for weatherization grants to help struggling families improve their homes’ energy efficiency and save hundreds of dollars annually in electricity and heating costs. The bill provides funding for projects and programs in the 9th Congressional District and Washington state requested by Congressman Smith including: $1,000,000 Washington State Biofuels Industry Development at University of Washington. This project will allow the Center for Biofuels at the University of Washington to invest in equipment and infrastructure upgrades needed to develop new technologies for converting biomass into fuels. $368,000 Lower Puyallup River. This funding would be used to determine alternatives for addressing flood and related habitat issues of the Lower Puyallup River in Pierce County, WA. $2,456,000 Duwamish and Green River Restoration. Funding will complete the design and construction of restoration projects within the Duwamish/Green Ecosystem Restoration Program. $378,000 Mud Mountain Dam Fish Passage. This funding will help implement restorations projects in the Puget Sound that are consistent with fish recovery efforts and benefit the inland marine waters in northwest Washington state. $2,904,000 Mud Mountain. This funding will support the existing diversion dam and trap and haul facilities, which ensures threatened Puget Sound Chinook salmon are able to be passed to spawning habitat above Mud Mountain Dam. $341,000 Puget Sound Nearshore Marine Habitat Restoration This project will identify and help implement the most cost-effective habitat restoration projects in the near shore, estuary and marine areas of Puget Sound by evaluating the factors that are causing habitat decline and pollution in the Puget Sound Basin; formulating, evaluating and screening potential solutions to these problems; and recommending a series of actions and projects. $100,000 Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration This funding will be used to help implement project restoration projects in the Puget Sound that are based on the designs developed by non-federal stakeholders, and consult on regional priorities consistent with fish recovery efforts that will benefit the inland marine waters in northwest Washington state. $1,000,000 Power Grid Reliability and Security This funding will be used for research on problems of and potential solutions for power grid instability, insecurity, and lack of capacity, and this research will help develop effective smart grid technology. The 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill is one of 12 annual appropriations bills that fund Federal Government programs and services. For a full summary of the bill visit the House Appropriations Committee. The bill must now be approved by the Senate before it can be sent to the President to be signed in to law.
9.30.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), who recently returned from a trip to Pakistan, made the following statement applauding the passage of the Enhanced Partnership with Pakistan Act of 2009: “It was clear during my recent trip to Pakistan in September that our support is absolutely helping Pakistan push back the threat they face from violent extremists. The Pakistanis are making positive progress and the skills and assets they have gained through our cooperation are invaluable to them. We must build on this relationship and continue to support their efforts. This bill will help us develop this long-term relationship based on mutual interests and the common goal of defeating violent extremists. “A key component of this legislation requires the President to develop a comprehensive interagency regional security strategy in coordination with groups on the ground. Such a strategy is essential to our efforts to counter terrorist threats and combat safe havens in Pakistan. “This legislation provides funding and support to train the Pakistani military in the crucial counterinsurgency capabilities needed to defeat violent extremist groups within or near its borders. It also provides funding to support economic, social and democratic development by strengthening democratic institutions, reinforcing the judicial system, developing infrastructure, spurring jobs creation, expanding public education and providing aid to refugees. This funding is vital to undermine the efforts of violent extremists, strengthen domestic support for the Pakistani government and move the country toward stability. “While Pakistan still faces tremendous internal and external destabilizing pressures, some of these pressures have begun to subside over the last few months in large part due to our assistance. We must build on this relationship and our long-term commitment to the region. I am pleased to support legislation that will continue to provide the critical resources necessary to bolster the Pakistani government and develop a more constructive, accountable relationship with the United States.” To see Congressman Adam Smith speak on the House floor about this important piece of legislation click here. ###
9.26.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) and Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) joined together to call on FEMA to conduct a comprehensive emergency preparedness and response exercise to take place in the Green River Valley as it faces a high risk of flooding due to damage at the Howard Hanson Dam. The exercise would help to ensure preparation at all levels to address the personal and economic impact of potential flooding and storm damage. “With the critical situation facing the Green River Valley, a key component is to be prepared as we work for a long-term fix,” said Reichert. “I’m pleased to join with Congressman Adam Smith in this effort, as the threat expands to his congressional district. We must do all we can to protect our citizens and prevent property damage and loss.” “Our communities continue to face the possibility of significant flooding and we must do everything we can to protect them,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “In the short term, all necessary resources should be focused on shoring up any infrastructure vulnerabilities and ensuring there is a comprehensive emergency preparedness and response plan in place so we can react effectively in the event of a flood. Overall, while state and federal resources are being appropriated to mitigate and avoid flooding damages, individuals should also be taking precautions to protect themselves and their property.” In the letter to Mr. Fugate, the members state: As representatives of the two congressional districts with constituents directly impacted by a flood event, we ask that your agency conduct a simulated exercise to mitigate the potential for severe personal and economic loss and prepare all of the local, state, and federal agencies involved in emergency response for any scenario that may arise from a breach of the Dam or the release of excess water. Preparedness is essential for effective response, and your agency has the ability to help ensure the Green River Valley is ready in the event of flooding. FEMA’s assistance in establishing and facilitating effective emergency communications and response could result in lessening the damages of this potential disaster. The threat of flooding from winter storms and the reduced capacity of the Howard Hanson Dam is real, and it is imperative that all levels of government act swiftly and in full coordination to prepare and protect the citizens and the Green River Valley. Full text of the letter follows: September 25, 2009 Mr. W. Craig Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street S.W., Room 700 Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate, We write to urgently request that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) conduct a comprehensive emergency preparedness and response exercise in the Green River Valley in Washington State. This exercise could ensure that citizens, local officials, and emergency teams are prepared to address the infrastructure vulnerabilities, personal safety risks, and the economic impact of potential storm damage to the Green River Valley and the Howard Hanson Dam at a time of heightened risk of flooding. For over 40 years, the Howard Hanson Dam and Green River levees in King County, Washington, have provided effective flood control and protection. Following record rainfall in January 2009, damage to an abutment adjacent to the Dam diminished the maximum water capacity that can be safely held by the Dam. As the Army Corps of Engineers works to assess and repair the damage, cities located within the Green River Valley were notified of a scenario that may require the intentional release of more water than usual during extreme rain events. This has the potential to result in catastrophic flooding that could affect tens of thousands of individuals. King County officials are preparing plans to evacuate up to 5,000 people; some estimates show the potential for lost economic output of $46 million per day and up to $2 billion in property damage. As representatives of the two congressional districts with constituents directly impacted by a flood event, we ask that your agency conduct a simulated exercise to mitigate the potential for severe personal and economic loss and prepare all of the local, state, and federal agencies involved in emergency response for any scenario that may arise from a breach of the Dam or the release of excess water. Preparedness is essential for effective response, and your agency has the ability to help ensure the Green River Valley is ready in the event of flooding. FEMA’s assistance in establishing and facilitating effective emergency communications and response could result in lessening the damages of this potential disaster. The threat of flooding from winter storms and the reduced capacity of the Howard Hanson Dam is real, and it is imperative that all levels of government act swiftly and in full coordination to prepare and protect the citizens and the Green River Valley. Our offices stand ready to provide any assistance you might need in orchestrating and carrying out such an exercise. Please let us know if there is any additional information needed as FEMA considers this request. We eagerly await your reply.
9.25.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement concerning the Air Force’s draft Request for Proposals (RFP) for the aerial refueling tanker: “I am pleased to see that the Department of Defense and the Air Force appear to have made positive adjustments to their draft Request for Proposals (RFP) for the aerial refueling tanker. The updated RFP for a new fleet of tankers will be released tomorrow. From my initial review, the new RFP seems to address a number of concerns raised in the last round of bidding, and will factor in the costs to operate, maintain, and base the aircraft over its service life. The new RFP also seems to more clearly lay out the overall criteria being used in the selection process and should help clarify the bidding process. “In the coming days, I will review in much greater detail the new guidelines set forth in the tanker RFP to ensure they create a fair and transparent procurement process. As the Air Force moves forward, I will follow the process closely to ensure all proposals are evaluated on equal merit. Any contract awarded must provide the best product to support our men and women in uniform in the most cost effective way possible. “I hope that the new RFP will lead to an equitable and open tanker competition and ensure the mistakes of the past are not repeated.”
9.9.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement in regard to Russell Investments’ decision to move its headquarters from Tacoma to downtown Seattle: “I am very disappointed in the Russell Company’s decision to relocate from Tacoma. Despite Russell’s decision to relocate, the business climate of Tacoma and the South Sound region remains desirable and highly competitive and I am confident our local economy will continue to grow and strengthen. “The Washington delegation has been working for years with the City of Tacoma and all of Pierce County to ensure that the South Sound region remains attractive to employers. I have no doubt in the economic strength of our region and will continue to work on the federal level to improve, encourage and enhance growth in the South Sound.”
9.4.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement based on news reports that the World Trade Organization’s interim ruling declared launch aid to Airbus an illegal subsidy: “It is clear from reports today that the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) interim ruling has concluded that European governments have illegally subsidized Airbus. In siding with U.S. officials they agree, rather than competing on a level playing field with privately-financed, U.S.-built aircraft, European governments have violated WTO rules by providing launch aid to develop Airbus planes. "These illegal subsidies for Airbus planes have distorted the industry, shifting market share toward Europe and away from U.S. aircraft manufacturing jobs. As the U.S. and the world move toward economic recovery, it is vitally important to restore market balance for American workers. "European governments and Airbus should cease all plans for future launch aid and end their practice of unfair competitive advantage. Boeing workers are among the best in the world and can compete directly in the aerospace industry but, in order to do so, we must ensure that our trading partners and international businesses abide by the WTO’s rules."
7.30.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced legislation that will improve health care while reducing costs. The Medicare and Medicaid Access Project through Information Technology will create a demonstration project using health information technology to manage chronic disease for Medicare and Medicaid patients. “To provide quality, affordable healthcare we must control costs and provide a method for chronic disease patients and doctors to more effectively coordinate care and manage medical information,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Approximately 50% of individuals with chronic conditions do not follow their prescribed treatments to manage their disease, accounting for nearly 75 percent of our health care costs. By utilizing new technologies – as this project does – we can increase the efficiency of our healthcare system, improve the quality of care for Medicare and Medicaid patients and decrease costs to states and the federal government.” The legislation calls for at least four demonstration projects that will give doctors, and caregivers tools to improve management of chronic disease patients’ medical records and provide patients the ability to track their own health information. Using the virtual case management tool, doctors and caregivers will have access to complete information about the patient’s current treatment and health status. Evaluations will follow the two-year demonstrations to determine how much money the project saved. “There is no question we need to lower health care costs in our country, and this project can do so without jeopardizing patient care,” Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers said. “Chronic disease management is one of the major cost drivers for Medicare and Medicaid, forcing states and the federal government to cut services and reimbursements for doctors. By using technology to manage those diseases, we can improve health care for patients and lower costs.”
7.30.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-Wash.) secured nearly $18 million for local defense related projects. The projects were including in the Defense Appropriations Act, which supports our troops by providing them with weapons and equipment necessary for our national defense and makes investments in their health, well-being and overall readiness. “With two major military installations and thousands of military personnel in my district, I see first-hand the service these brave men and women provide for our country,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “So I am pleased to see that this bill provides a pay raise as well as key investments in their health and overall readiness. Our troops provide us a tremendous service, and this bill reflects our gratitude.” The Defense Appropriations Act keeps our commitments to our troops and their families by including a 3.4% pay raise for our military, provides vital funding for first class medical care and strong support for military family advocacy programs. It also continues efforts to end the practice of “stop loss” and pays our troops an additional $500 for every month their term of service is involuntarily extended by that practice. Additionally, for the first time since the beginning of operations in Iraq, this bill budgets for Overseas Deployment and other activities in Iraq and Afghanistan for the upcoming fiscal year. This legislation also makes a commitment to fiscal responsibility by reigning in outsourcing and putting Defense personnel, not contractors, in charge of critical department functions. Smith was specifically able to secure funding for a number of local projects including: $1.8 million: Portable Device for Latent Fingerprint Identification. This funding will be used to develop a portable device that will be used by operators in the field to search, capture, and identity latent fingerprints. $1.0 million: Corrosion Detection and Visualization Program. This funding will be used to develop new inspection methods and procedures using magneto-optic imaging for F-15 aircraft that will eliminate the need to disassemble part of the aircraft. $2.5 million: Western Regional Counterdrug Training Center. This funding will be used to re-establish a fifth counter-drug training center, which would be located at Camp Murray, Washington. $2.0 million: Advanced Ground Electronic Warfare & Signals Intelligence System. This funding will be used to research and develop a unique, next generation system that will be used by military personnel on the ground to detect and jam enemy communications, IEDs, and other electronic warfare (EW) threats. $2.5 million: Madigan Army Medical Center Trauma Assistance. This project provides critical trauma training for military medical personnel at local civilian hospitals. $5.8 million: Institute for Simulation and Interprofessional Studies. This project will allow for the expanded use of health care simulation technologies by the Department of Defense. $2.0 million: Malaria Vaccine Development. This funding will be used for clinical trials on a second generation malaria vaccine. The Defense Appropriations Act is one of 12 annual appropriations bills that fund Federal Government programs and services. For a full summary of the bill visit the House Appropriations Committee. The bill must now be approved by the Senate before it can be sent to the President to be signed in to law.
7.29.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) announced more than $8 million in grants to fund the hiring and rehiring of local law enforcement officers under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. “These funds provide much needed support to our local law enforcement agencies to help add and retain the manpower needed to fight crime more effectively and keep our communities safe,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Ensuring that 9th District and Washington state continue to be a safe place for people to work and raise a family is a top priority of mine and I will continue to work to provide our local law enforcement agencies with the support and resources they need.” The grants will be administered by the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) through the federal agency’s COPS Hiring Recovery Program, and will be awarded to 1046 law enforcement agencies from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Northern Mariana Islands and Guam. Communities in the 9th Congressional District and the surrounding area will receive more than $8 million, enough to hire and train 29 police offices for three years. Break down of local funding awarded: • Auburn: $1,290,880 awarded to hire 5 officers; • Des Moines: $587,896 awarded to hire 2 officers; • Fife: $263,563 awarded to hire 1 officer; • Kent: $572,374 awarded to hire 2 officers; • Lakewood: $784,534 awarded to hire 3 officers; • Nisqually Indian Tribe: $153,090 awarded to hire 1 officer; • Renton: $1,644,972 awarded to hire 6 officers; • Sumner: $321,401 awarded to hire 1 officer; • Tacoma: $1,595,375 awarded to hire 5 officers; • Tukwila: $928,308 awarded to hire 3 officers; The grants will provide 100 percent of the approved salary and benefits for entry level officer positions over a three year period. Police departments receiving the grants will then be required to retain the grant funded positions for a fourth year. For more information about the grants please visit www.cops.usdoj.gov.
7.28.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) introduced the Military Family Leave Act of 2009, a bill that will provide military families with the ability to spend quality time with their deployed or deploying loved ones. Specifically, this legislation would provide two weeks of unpaid leave to the spouse, children, or parents of a member of the military who receives notification of deployment or is currently deployed. “As a member of Congress who represents thousands of military personnel and their families, I see the stress deployment can put on a family,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Military families make a tremendous sacrifice for our country and they should not have to be concerned about how their employer will respond if a loved one is deployed. This bill relieves some of that stress by ensuring family members have adequate time away from work to spend time with their deployed or deploying loved one, allowing them ample time to handle issues that arise over the course of a deployment.” While the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act added a provision to the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) allowing military families to take time off for a number of reasons connected with a deployment, not all employees are eligible under current law. The Military Family Leave Act of 2009 seeks to ensure that all military families have the ability to take two-weeks of unpaid leave in response to an upcoming or current deployment of a loved one. Senator Ron Wyden recently introduced similar legislation in the Senate.
7.25.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) voted to bolster funding to improve education, social services and health care for the American people. Locally, Smith was also able to secure funding for a variety of important projects and programs that will enhance Washingtonstate’s educational and health care systems as well as job training programs. “In this slow economy, funding health care, education and housing is vitally important. People are struggling and these funds are more important now than ever before,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “This bill supports a number of local initiatives and programs that will improve our state’s educational system, health care and train our workforce for the jobs of the future.” The Labor, Health and Education Appropriations Act shores up programs that serve as crucial social safety nets for many Americans struggling in this recession. It includes funding to provide jobs, meals and other support services to impoverished seniors, as well as critical energy assistance programs. The bill also funds grants that allow states to provide health care to more of their uninsured residents. The bill provides funding for projects and programs requested by Congressman Smith including: $250,000 for the Competitive Supply Chain Management Workforce. This project will help fund a program to conduct local outreach and training for the trade, transportation, and logistics industry and workforce, as well as help build the infrastructure to support employers and workers in these fields. $115,000 for the Rural Safety-net Provider Access Network (SPAN). This project will identify and implement efficiencies among rural health care providers for care coordination, reduce inappropriate emergency room use and unnecessary repeat primary care visits, maximize efficient use of existing health capacity, and facilitate regional approaches for quality improvements. $750,000 for Aviation High School. The funding will be used for the acquisition of laboratory equipment to support Aviation High School’s innovative science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) curriculum. $325,000 for Washington Center for Undergraduate Education's Curriculum for the Bioregion Initiative at Evergreen State College. Funding will support the Curriculum for the Bioregion Initiative to help educate hundreds of undergraduates in the Puget Sound region in the fields of environmental sustainability and stewardship. $400,000 for the Tacoma College Success Foundation. This funding will help establish an independent Tacoma College Success Foundation with the primary goal of doubling the number of Tacoma low-income students enrolling in college. The Labor, Health and Education Appropriations Act is one of 12 annual appropriations bills that fund Federal Government programs and services. For a full summary of the bill visit the House Appropriations Committee. The bill must be passed by the Senate before the President can sign it into law.
7.24.2009	Washington State Congressmen Adam Smith and (WA-09) and Dave Reichert (WA-08) introduced legislation, the Earmark Transparency and Accountability Reform Act (H.R. 3268), to reform the broken earmark system in Congress that has wasted taxpayer dollars and been abused for personal gain. This bipartisan effort, led by two members of Washington State’s congressional delegation, would set standards for accountability and transparency through more stringent measures as the earmarks are vetted through the Congressional budget process. “Transparency ensures accountability,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “While many congressional earmarked projects – when vetted correctly and thoroughly – make positive and needed investments in our communities, some groups have found ways to manipulate the system in their favor. This must end and that is why I joined Congressman Reichert in introducing this legislation. We must continue to work to reform and bring transparency to the earmark process. This bill does just that.” “Congress’ action to reform earmarks simply hasn’t gone far enough, and that is why we have taken the lead to reform the system with the best ideas from both sides,” said Reichert. “We are holding ourselves to these high standards and encouraging Congress to adopt them, bringing much-needed accountability to the entire process. Member projects or “earmarks” play an important role in our communities when they put federal dollars to good use, whether it’s to rebuild a road, or assist a hospital with a new project to save lives, but they must be done in a way that is accountable, transparent, that protects the taxpayer, and through a system the public can trust.” Provisions in the bill to reform the system include: Brings unprecedented transparency by requiring that any bill with an earmark be available online for review at least 72 hours before the legislation is brought to the House floor, all earmark requests be posted online for public review on the House Clerk’s website, and all earmark language must be incorporated into the text of the bill; Enacts line item veto authority for earmarked bills; Establishes a regular audit process for federally funded projects; Requires disclosure of money spent by private groups lobbying on behalf of earmarks; and, Prohibits earmarks from being slipped into bills after House/Senate passage.
7.24.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) secured funding for two local transportation projects that will make key investments in local infrastructure to reduce traffic congestion and modernize public transportation. “In order to sustain long term economic growth we must make wise investments in our national infrastructure. This bill represents our commitment to ensuring that we continue to have the infrastructure necessary to compete in a global economy now, and into the future,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Additionally, these projects will help modernize our local public transportation, reduce traffic and create jobs.” The project funding was secured in the Fiscal Year 2010 House Transportation and Housing Appropriations Bill, which provides critical resources to maintain and improve our nation’s airports, highways, passenger rail and transit systems. This bill builds on the work of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and our long term economic plan to invest in job development for those hurt most by the economic downturn. Additionally, it makes improvements for highways, public transit, and airports that will put our economy on sound footing for the future. Smith secured funding for the following projects: $300,000 for the 70th Avenue East & Valley Avenue East Corridor Project. This project will widen Valley Avenue East and intersectional segments of 70th Avenue East in order to reduce existing congestion and delays, reduce accident potential, and improve freight movement. $500,000 Clean Fuel Buses in Pierce County. This project will fund the purchase of six clean fuel buses in order to help Pierce Transit modernize its aging fleet and continue to provide high-quality transportation services throughout the Pierce County region in a cost-saving environmentally-responsible manner.
7.15.2009	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-Wash.) urged action to repair the Howard Hanson Dam and the levees along the lower Green and Puyallup Rivers. As the rain and flood season approaches, “the need for action and resources is imperative,” said Smith. In turn, Smith enlisted the support of Congressman Ed Pastor, Chairman of the House Energy and Water Development Subcommittee, which provides funding for the Army Corps of Engineers to repair and rehabilitate local levees and dams. An excerpt and video of the exchange between Congressman Smith and Congressman Pastor is below. Click on the image below to view the full video. Excerpt of exchange: Mr. Smith: The Green and Puyallup Rivers, located in the Ninth District of Washington, were flooded by record levels of water in January 2009, causing cities along these rivers to sustain major damage. Levees along these rivers are now in need of repair and rehabilitation, and when added to the other levees that were already priorities for the Seattle District, the need for resources and action is imperative. Following the record high level of water behind the Howard Hanson Dam on the Green River, significant structural weaknesses were discovered. Because of this damage, water levels at the Howard Hanson Dam are being held at lower-than-normal levels, drastically increasing the possibility of flooding along the banks below. This is extremely troubling as we are rapidly approaching the upcoming rain and flood season. If the Dam were to fail, or if a strong storm brings a heavy level of rain, then the levees below are at a serious risk of being breached, causing significant property damage and driving large numbers of people from their homes and businesses. I respectfully ask to work with the Gentleman to ensure that the Seattle District of the Army Corps of Engineers is responsive to the flood prevention needs of those along the lower Green and Puyallup Rivers, and will make the repair of their levees a top priority. I also ask to work with the Subcommittee to make the resources needed to fix the Howard Hanson Dam available in a timely manner, as they are identified. Mr. Pastor: I thank the gentleman for drawing the Subcommittee’s attention to this very serious issue. He has been a dedicated advocate for the people of the Ninth District of Washington and the surrounding areas. We will work with the gentleman to ensure that the Seattle District of the Corps is responsive to the needs of the cities and people along the lower Green and Puyallup Rivers, and that adequate resources are available to repair the Howard Hanson Dam.
7.10.2009	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) voted to support our veterans and military personnel by funding critical veterans programs and health services, as well as the construction of key military facilities. This included vitally important projects and services for troops and veterans in the 9th Congressional District. “As someone who represents thousands of military veterans and their families, I believe we have an obligation to provide them with the benefits and treatment they deserve,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “This legislation accomplishes that by providing $108.9 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs, a $14.5 billion increase over Fiscal Year 2009.” The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act will strengthen quality health care for more than six million patients – including 419,000 veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The bill also provides important funding for mental health programs, assistance to homeless veterans, and to improve access for veterans in rural areas. In addition, the bill provides advance appropriations for veterans health services in 2011, so the funding stream for our veterans’ health care is timely and reliable. “This bill will also help to construct, maintain and enhance our local and national military facilities,” said Smith. “Specifically, I was pleased to see funds included for the construction of a Joint Access Road between Ft. Lewis and McChord Air Force Base – a project I worked to secured funds for because of its importance to my district.” To support our military, the bill provides the funding necessary to meet their construction needs. Specifically, the bill provides funding to accelerate the Army’s program to modernize housing facilities, address the unfunded construction requirements of the Guard and Reserves, and construct military child care centers and military family housing. Locally, the bill provides $150,836,000 for a variety of construction projects at Ft. Lewis and McChord Air Force Base, including $9 million requested by Congressman Smith for a joint access road between the installations. The access road will help alleviate congestion on Interstate 5 by providing travel between the two bases and provide a deployment route for the air transportation of Army vehicles and equipment. The 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act is one of 12 annual appropriations bills that fund Federal Government programs and services. For a full summary of the bill visit the House Appropriations Committee. The bill must now be approved by the Senate before it can be sent to the President to be signed in to law. ###
7.8.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) and Congressman Dave Reichert won support for an amendment to H.R. 2965, The Small Business Research and Innovation Act, to strengthen participation of disabled veterans, women and minority owned businesses. H.R. 2965 modernizes and reauthorizes the government’s largest small business research and development programs - the amendment offered by Smith and Reichert ensures the government casts the widest net possible in administering these grant programs. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “It is vitally important – especially in the current economic downturn – that we provide support and resources so our small businesses can grow and thrive. Additionally, the amendment I offered with Congressman Reichert expands the bill to ensure that disabled veterans, women and minority-owned small businesses receive the full benefits of this legislation.” To see Congressman Smith speak about the importance of this legislation and his amendment click here. The overall bill modernizes the government’s largest small business research and development programs, the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program and the Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program, more than doubling the amount of the grants small businesses can apply for and helping them engage in cutting-edge research. The amendment offered by Smith and Reichert builds on H.R. 2965 by giving preference to organizations that are in underrepresented states and regions, or are women, service-disabled veterans or minority-owned in the awarding of grants for Small Business Administration (SBA) outreach efforts. This will broaden the pool of businesses that participate in the programs by reaching out to rural entrepreneurs, veterans, minorities and women. Supporting outreach to underserved areas and disadvantaged small businesses is essential. Many small businesses are unaware of the resources that may be available to them, or incur additional, unnecessary costs just to apply for assistance or to navigate a complex government system. The amendment offered by Smith and Reichert addresses this problem by providing support for outreach efforts. Since 1992, the SBIR and STTR programs have awarded 65,000 grants to small companies that are leading research efforts to cure diseases, strengthen national defense and reduce our dependence on foreign energy sources. Without action by Congress, these programs would have expired later this month.
7.2.2009	The 4th of July is more than an opportunity for family and friends to come together, it is a chance to reflect on our country’s proud history and honor the ideals and principals on which it stands. Now, more than ever, it is important for all of us to remember the principals that unite us. In the months ahead our county will engage in a spirited debate about how we can address some of our most pressing problems – such as fixing our healthcare system, protecting our environment and creating new sources of energy and the strategy for our conflicts abroad. People will differ on how we should address these problems – sometimes greatly and passionately - but we must remember that we all have our country’s best interest at heart. So, this weekend enjoy the company of close friends and family, but also take a moment to reflect on the things bind all Americans together – freedom, justice and the pursuit of liberty.
6.26.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-Wash.) voted in support of H.R. 2996, the 2010 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill, which funds the Department of the Interior, crucial environmental programs and related agencies. “This bill provides essential funding for the Department of Interior and other related agencies, such as the EPA, to help communities improve their water systems, address pollution, and protect wildlife and ecosystems.” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Protecting our environment and national lands is essential to preserving our country’s resources for future generations. I am pleased to see that it has once again become a priority in Congress.” The bill provides funding for projects and programs in the 9th Congressional District requested by Congressman Smith including: $4,000,000 for the University of Washington’s Puget Sound Ecosystem Research Initiative. This research will help support the restoration work of the Puget Sound Partnership and will be based in Tacoma. $500,000 for the City of Lacey’s Reclaimed Water Project. This will support the infrastructure needed to allow additional water use by Lacey, Olympia, Yelm, and the Nisqually Tribe. The 2010 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill is one of 12 annual appropriations bills that fund Federal Government programs and services. For a full summary of the bill visit the House Appropriations Committee. The bill must now be approved by the Senate before it can be sent to the President to be signed in to law.
6.26.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 2454, The American Clean Energy and Security Act: “Our nation’s current energy policy is outdated, inefficient and relies far too much on foreign oil. This undermines our national security and leaves us at the mercy of gas and oil prices, which can change dramatically in short periods of time. This is unacceptable, and Americans deserve better. We must establish energy policies that protect consumers, reduce our carbon footprint and free us from the tyranny of foreign oil. “The dramatic increase in gas prices last summer demonstrated the urgent need to reform our energy policies. The sudden spike in oil prices had a devastating effect on our economy and essentially levied a steep energy tax on Americans at a time when they could least afford it. “We must take advantage of this situation to transform our economy and create the jobs needed to compete globally in the future. We need stronger efficiencies and smarter policies in order to keep our energy prices reasonable. Our current energy policy is a large tax on Americans in the form of extreme oil costs and it must change. The American Clean Energy and Security Act is far from perfect, but it is a step in the right direction. The bill is a cautious approach, one that strikes a balance between moving our economy away from its dependence on fossil fuels and mitigating the economic impact of this transition. “This bill will also help to unleash the power of our entrepreneurs to invest in clean energy sources, create jobs, and move us toward energy independence. It will help reduce pollution and keep our energy costs at a reasonable level. The bill reduces dangerous pollution by limiting emissions from major sources such as electric utilities, oil refineries, and coal fired plants. The legislation protects and creates jobs now, and bolsters American competitiveness in global energy markets – where countries like China, Germany and Spain are already investing heavily. “The cost to consumers of our current energy policy is simply too great to ignore. If we do not increase efficiency and create alternative sources of energy the people of our country will always be at the mercy of the price of oil. Global demand for oil in growing economies like India and China will continue to cause the price of oil to increase. This bill gives us a chance to break this cycle and provide consumers with alternatives that will put us on a path to a better energy future, one where consumers do not have to simply absorb sudden and massive increases in the cost of oil. “While this bill is a dramatic improvement from our current energy policy, it is not perfect – and it is not finished. In the weeks ahead the Senate will take up its version of the bill and then work together with the House to address the differences between the two versions. As this process moves forward, I will work closely with my colleagues to ensure we craft the best possible energy policy that addresses the needs of all Americans.”
6.25.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) voted in support of legislation today that will allow disabled military retirees to concurrently receive both their retired pay from the Department of Defense (DoD) and their disability benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). H.R. 2990, the Disabled Military Retiree Relief Act of 2009, passed the House today by a vote of 404-0. “Our veterans have dedicated their lives to our country, and they deserve to receive the benefits they have earned,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “While this is a step in the right direction, we must go further. Expanding concurrent receipt to all military retirees remains a priority for me in Congress. In the months ahead, I will continue working with my colleagues to achieve this goal.” This legislation temporarily allows Chapter 61 retirees who are rated 100% disabled, 100% disabled by reason of being unemployable, or 90% disabled to receive full concurrent receipt of their DoD and VA benefits from January 1, 2010 until September 30, 2010. Due to required budget offsets, finding funds to permanently expand concurrent receipt to all military retirees has been extremely difficult. However, this bill contains the framework to extend the eligibility period and expand eligibility to those Chapter 61 retirees with a disability rating of less than 90% in the future. Congress will utilize this framework to work toward a permanent solution in the months ahead. The bill must now be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President
6.25.2009	Smith Support Investments to Improve Homeland Security Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which includes funding for critical border, transit and port security, as well as aid for first responders. “These funds are vitally important to securing our borders and protecting our critical infrastructure here at home,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “These funds will not only help secure our country against those who seek to do us harm, but they will also ensure that our first responders have the resources and tools to respond should an emergency occur.” Some key provisions of the bill include: Northern Border Security: Increased Investment in Surveillance Systems: The bill supports ongoing efforts to secure the 4,000 miles of the sparsely populated, often remote Northern Border. It also provides $40 million to continue investments in mobile and remote video surveillance systems along the U.S.-Canada border. Port Security: Port Security Grants: Provides $250 million for port security grants to help U.S. ports meet the security requirements established by the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002. Developing Systems for the Screening of Cargo Containers: Provides $804 million for the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Domestic Nuclear Detection Offices to develop new and improved systems to screen cargo containers for weapons and nuclear materials. Overseas Cargo Container Security: Provides $162 million to continue implementation of its efforts to strengthen operations at overseas ports to monitor and target cargo containers, and to develop better technology to accomplish this mission. Rail and Transit Security Rail and Transit Security Grants: Provides $250 million for rail and transit security grants to protect critical transit infrastructure, including rail and ferry systems, in high-threat areas. First Responder Grants State Homeland Security Grants: Provides $950 million for State Homeland Security grants to help meet the needs of state and local first responders, including hiring, training and equipping emergency personnel to respond to terrorist attacks and catastrophic incidents. Firefighter Assistance Grants: Provides $380 million in grants to fund equipment for firefighters. The Homeland Security Appropriations bill is one of 12 annual appropriations bills that fund Federal Government programs and services. For a full summary of the Homeland Security Appropriations bill visit the House Appropriations Committee. The bill must now be approved by the Senate before it can be sent to the President to be signed in to law. ###
6.18.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Wash) today expressed concern over recent statements by European government officials that Airbus might receive further launch aid subsidies for the development of the Airbus A350. “I am concerned by recent press reports indicating that France, Germany, the UK and Spain are seriously considering providing upwards of $5 billion dollars in launch aid to Airbus for the development of the A-350, especially since the World Trade Organization is poised to render a decision on the legality of this type of subsidy in the coming weeks. “I firmly agree with the U.S. Trade Representative that further European government support for Airbus would be a ‘major step in the wrong direction.’ “Airbus is a profitable company that should compete on a level playing field. They should invest their own cash and commercially borrowed funds in new products and services, not receive government subsidies to fund a significant portion of their development. This is in stark contrast to the market realities that Boeing faces every day. This assistance would allow Airbus to unfairly compete with American industry and American workers. "I hope that the European countries involved will decide that this is not the best course of action."
6.18.2009	Today, Congressman Smith (WA-09) voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2010 Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill, which includes funding for several critical law enforcement, public safety and justice assistance projects in the 9th District. "These funds are important to ensure that our local law enforcement officials and crime prevention agencies have the resources and support they need to keep our communities safe," said Congressman Adam Smith. "These funds will support critical local programs that prevent drug abuse, crime, and violence and aid victims and affected communities." Smith helped secure funding in the House bill for a number of local programs including: $150,000 – Valley Cities Public Safety Wireless Regional Broadband Network. This funding will be used to construct a fiber and wireless broadband network to streamline communications throughout the Valley Cities including Auburn, Renton, Kent, Tukwila, Algona, and Pacific. $200,000 – Lacy Records Management System. This funding will be used to purchase hardware and software components for a new records management system to be used by law enforcement agencies in Thurston County. $1,500,000 – Washington State Meth Initiative. This funding will be used to continue investigations of clandestine meth labs, treatment programs for those addicted to methamphetamine, and mobilize education and prevention efforts. $400,000 – Puyallup Justice Center. This funding will be used to purchase security and communications equipment for the Puyallup Tribe's detention center. $500,000 – Pierce County Regional Gang Prevention (Safe Streets). This funding will be used to continue efforts for prevention and intervention entities to reach out to youth and families impacted by gangs. The Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill is one of 12 annual bipartisan appropriations bills that funds vital Federal Government programs and services. This particular appropriations bill makes investments in law enforcement, science, innovation and other essential government priorities. For a full summary of the CJS bill visit the House Appropriations Committee. The bill must now be approved by the Senate before it can be sent to the President to be signed in to law.
6.17.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Wash.) voted in support of H.R. 2647, the fiscal year 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which authorizes appropriations for essential U.S. national security efforts. As chairman of the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, Smith also played a primary role in crafting this legislation. The bill was reported out of the House Armed Services Committee by a vote of 61-0. “This is a critically important bill, which ensures our brave men and women in harms way have the resources they need,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “It supports our troops and their families, ensures our military readiness, and focuses on our strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. This bill is vitally important to our national security and I am proud of the support it provides to our troops and their efforts to keep us safe.” The bill authorizes appropriations for fiscal year 2010 military activities including the Department of Defense, the national security programs of the Department of Energy (DoE), military construction projects, and other defense and military personnel activities related to U.S. national security efforts. Congressman Smith played a central role in shaping the portion of NDAA which relates to his work as Chair of the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee. This includes some of the Defense Department’s most important challenges: the fight against violent extremists, their allies and their ideology; development and deployment of innovative technology in new battlefields; and defending the homeland from catastrophic unconventional attacks. Some of the key provisions within Smith jurisdiction include: Authorization of $8.958 billion for Special Operations Command, including $308.4 million to cover all unfunded requirements; Authorization of up to $30 million, an increase of $10 million over the President’s budget request, to improve the capacity and capabilities of the NATO Special Operations Coordination Center; Directs the Secretary of Defense to submit a report on the planning for and execution of public diplomacy, including a description of all of the activities, metrics, and an analysis of how these activities are coordinated. Directs the Secretary of Defense to have the military departments and defense agencies establish a process for addressing hardware or software vulnerabilities to defense IT systems identified during an information assurance vulnerability assessment; Authorizes the Secretary to conduct a pilot demonstration of an alternative acquisition process for rapidly acquiring information technology capabilities; Encourages the Department to continue to invest in developing and demonstrating core technologies for hybrid air vehicles, including closer coordination and cooperation with the Air Force and Transportation Command. The bill must be approved by the Full House of Representatives and the Senate before the President can sign it into law.
6.12.2009	Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement praising the inclusion of a provision in the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act to provide relief for military surviving spouses. The bill passed the House today by a vote of 307-97 and is expected to be signed into law by the President. Congressman Smith supported legislation today that grants the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the authority to regulate the advertising, marketing, and manufacturing of tobacco products. Tobacco related deaths are the leading cause of preventable death in America. The bill also includes a provision to increase monthly payments made to surviving military spouses under the Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance (SSIA). Specifically, the bill will increase SSIA payments to $150 per month in Fiscal Year (FY) 2014, $200 per month in FY2015, $275 per month in FY2016, and $310 per month in FY2017. SSIA was first established to provide relief to surviving spouses who are subject to the mandatory deduction of Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC) from Survivor Benefit Program (SBP) annuities. "While I will continue to work towards the full repeal of the mandatory SBP-DIC offset, and am a cosponsor of legislation that would do just that, this is a positive step to provide relief to surviving spouses of those who served in the Armed Forces," Smith said
6.11.2009	Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement applauding the passage of the Pakistan Enduring Assistance and Cooperation Enhancement Act of 2009, which passed the House today by a vote of 234-185. “Pakistan is an ally and essential strategic partner in our fight against violent extremism as well as our goals for preventing narcotics trafficking and the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Yet, Pakistan faces tremendous internal and external destabilizing pressures and needs our assistance. That is why I am pleased to support legislation that provides the critical resources necessary to bolster the Pakistani government and develop a more constructive, accountable relationship with the United States.” “This bill provides funding and support to train the Pakistani military in the crucial counterinsurgency capabilities needed to defeat violent extremist groups within or near its borders. It also provides funding to support economic, social and democratic development by strengthening democratic institutions, reinforcing the judicial system, developing infrastructure, spurring jobs creation, expanding public education and providing aid to refugees. This funding is vital to undermine the efforts of violent extremists, strengthen domestic support for the Pakistani government and move the country toward stability. Additionally, the legislation includes accountability provisions to ensure that Pakistan is using our security assistance in a manner consistent with U.S. national security interests. “Further, the House-passed bill includes provisions from legislation that I have advocated for to establish Reconstruction Opportunity Zones (ROZs) in Afghanistan and Pakistan. These ROZs, where non-trade-sensitive exports would be permitted to enter the U.S. duty-free, will deter al-Qaeda and Taliban recruitment efforts by offering economic alternatives to joining the insurgency. “President Zadari cannot win the battle against violent extremism through military means alone. This is an essential approach that strikes a balance between security and development assistance to ensure that the Pakistani government has the tools, knowledge and funding necessary to push back recent advancements by violent extremists and provide a strong, effective government for the Pakistani people. ###
6.11.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) recently introduced legislation in the House of Representatives to improve America’s freight and transportation infrastructure to ensure that it remains competitive and supportive of commerce and economic growth. “As our economy continues to grow and evolve, we must ensure that our country’s infrastructure expands and adapts to meet our economy’s growing needs,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “With commerce and trade expected to become an even greater percentage of our economy, the demand placed on our national infrastructure will only continue to grow. There is a clear demand that requires us to respond to these challenges and this bill will begin to move us in the right direction.” The National Freight Mobility Infrastructure Act, H.R. 2707, enables our nation to make critical improvements to the U.S. freight mobility network by providing much-needed federal support to vital surface transportation infrastructure projects. This legislation generates revenue through a minimal one-percent user fee on the cost of multimodal surface freight transport. In turn, the funds raised are reinvested back into improving the freight network, including both highways and railways, through a national competitive grant program at the Department of Transportation. H.R. 2707 increases the efficiency of freight movement, reduces congestion and delays, assists manufacturing and on-demand product distribution, lessens our nation’s environmental impact, and strengthens our economy. “As Congress takes up surface transportation legislation this year,” Smith added, “I sincerely hope to see federal policy increasingly focus on the freight mobility infrastructure needs that will fuel our businesses and economy for years to come.”
6.10.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement after his vote in favor of H.R. 2410, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2010 and 2011: “In recent years U.S. foreign policy has neglected two of our country’s greatest strengths - diplomacy and development. The Foreign Affairs Authorization bill passed by the House today reinvigorates our efforts and promotes a more balanced U.S. foreign policy that will bolster our national security efforts and help to restore American’s image abroad. “H.R. 2410 enhances our diplomacy and development efforts by authorizing the hiring of 1,500 new Foreign Service officers, an additional 700 hires at the U.S. Agency for International Development and by doubling the number of Peace Corps volunteers. The bill also supports peacekeeping efforts in Darfur, strengthens arms control and nonproliferation capabilities, improves oversight of U.S. security assistance and funds a variety of other vitally important foreign affairs programs. “As Chair of the House Armed Services subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities and a former member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I understand that America cannot rely on the military alone to achieve our foreign policy objectives. Robust diplomacy and effective development play a critical role in our national security strategy. For far too long these soft power tools have been underutilized and overlooked and I am pleased to see a renewed focus on a smarter, more comprehensive approach to our national security by elevating diplomacy and development.”
6.5.2009	Washington D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement in honor of the 65th anniversary of D-Day this Saturday: Sixty-five years ago, on June 6, 1944, Allied forces launched the assault on the beaches of Normandy that would begin the liberation of Europe from the Nazi occupation. We will forever be indebted to the individuals who stormed the beaches that day. These brave individuals cast aside their own well being to ensure not only that the people of Europe live free of Nazi oppression, but that the ideals of freedom would live on to this day. This weekend, let us honor their sacrifice and courage. And, let us also honor the sacrifice of the brave men and women who have followed in their foot steps by serving in the armed forces to protect freedom and defeat tyranny across the globe. ###
6.4.2009	Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement regarding President Obama’s speech in Cairo, Egypt today: “The President’s trip to the Middle East this week and speech in Cairo today highlight the Administration’s new direction in U.S. relations with the Middle East. Since taking office in January, the President and his Administration have reached out to the Middle East in a way that stresses mutual respect and common interests. This new face of American diplomacy is a welcomed and much needed change in approach. “Many of America’s critical national security goals – from addressing the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and Iran’s nuclear ambitions to defeating Al-Qaeda and pushing back against extremism – will be well-served by this active diplomatic leadership. The new face of American diplomacy will undermine the message of violent extremist who seek to paint the United States as an enemy of the Arab world, not a partner. “I applaud the President for his efforts to reach out to the Arab world in a respectful and constructive manner. We face many difficult challenges in the Middle East, and the Administration is mindful of this fact. The road to solving these problems starts with respectful, constructive dialogue.” ###
5.22.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) reintroduced the Global Poverty Act yesterday, legislation that would require the Administration to develop and implement a comprehensive strategy to combat and reduce global poverty. “Global poverty is one of the most pressing moral challenges we face today,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Yet, it’s more than just a moral problem that billions of people around the world are struggling to survive. It is also in our national security interests that we reduce global poverty. Populations that struggle in extreme poverty are more likely to become mired in destabilizing conflicts, or worse, become havens or recruiting grounds for terrorist organizations. This is an issue that we cannot afford to neglect.” “U.S. foreign policy must be enhanced and better coordinated in the fight against global poverty. While the United States continues to significantly invest in reducing poverty worldwide, we do not have a comprehensive strategy that measures and guides our progress. We have committed to the goal of reducing poverty as a country though various programs and organizations, but we are not making adequate progress due to a lack of a unified strategy. This bill will require the Administration to establish the benchmarks necessary to achieve significant poverty reduction and keep us on track toward that goal. It will lead to more accountability and more effective efforts. ” The Global Poverty Act: Declares it official U.S. policy to promote the reduction of global poverty, the elimination of extreme global poverty, and the achievement of the U.N. Millennium Development Goal of cutting extreme global poverty in half by 2015. Requires the President to develop and implement a comprehensive strategy to carry out that policy. Includes guidelines for what the strategy should include - from aid, trade, and debt relief, to working with the international community, businesses and NGOs, to ensuring environmental sustainability. Requires that the President’s strategy include specific and measurable goals, efforts to be undertaken, benchmarks, and timetables. Requires the President to report back to Congress on progress made in the implementation of the global poverty strategy. In September of 2007, the Global Poverty Act of 2007 passed the House of Representatives. The bill then passed the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee in February of 2008, but was not scheduled for a vote on the Senate floor before the end of the 110th Congress. ###
5.7.2009	Today, Congressman Smith voted for H.R. 1728, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2009, aimed at curbing abusive and predatory lending. Yesterday, Smith voted for an amended version of S. 386, the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act, that would expand federal fraud laws to cover funds disbursed under last year’s $700 billion financial industry bailout and the $787 billion stimulus package. Together, these bills demand unprecedented consumer protection and stricter accountability and transparency for our country’s financial institutions. “We are currently witnessing the long-term effects of short-term thinking,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “In order to restore our economic viability and ensure we lay the foundation for long-term sustainable growth we must restore accountability in the housing and financial markets and rebuild our economy in a way that's consistent with our values. These two bills are a step in that direction.” “Over the last year as the federal government took steps to restore our economy I consistently called for strict accountability and transparency to ensure tax payers are protected,” continued Smith. “I also pushed for measures to address the problems that caused the economic crisis in the first place. These two bills begin to address the underlying problems with our financial system and protect consumers from the irresponsible and fraudulent practices that helped spur the recent wave of foreclosures. I will continue to advocate for additional consumer protections and responsibility in our financial markets.” The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act would authorize funding for the Department of Justice and provide them with the tools necessary to fight potential fraud of TARP economic recovery funds and in mortgage markets. It would create a 10-member “Financial Markets Inquiry Commission” to determine the causes of our current financial crisis, and will analyze such factors as consumer and individual protections, tax treatment of financial products, corporate governance and executive compensation, and lending practices. The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act would outlaw many of the industry practices that marked the subprime leading boom, and it would prevent borrowers from deliberately misstating their income to quality for a loan. This legislation is a crucial step in preventing and combating predatory lending practices. The bill would ensure that mortgage lenders make loans that benefit the consumer and prohibit them from steering borrowers into the higher cost loans. It would establish a simple standard for all home loans: institutions must ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold. Also, for the first time ever, it would make the secondary mortgage market responsible for complying with these standards when they buy loans and turn them into securities. The bill also: Prevents predatory and abusive lending practices by banning yield spread premiums and other abusive compensation structures that create conflicts of interest or reward originators that “steer” borrowers. The bill would require originators to disclose to consumers the compensation they receive from the transaction. Hold creditors responsible for the loans they originate by requiring new federal rules calling for creditors to retain an economic interest in a material portion (at least 5 percent) of the credit risk of each loan that the creditor transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party. Protect tenants who rent homes that go into foreclosure by requiring that they receive proper notification and are given time to relocate before the home they rent is foreclosed.
5.2.2009	Congressman Adam Smith congratulated Arunan Mukphrom today for winning this year’s 9th District Congressional Art Contest. His piece, a charcoal “Self Portrait” was selected ahead of 26 other entries by a five member panel of art enthusiasts from around the 9th District. Arunan Mukphrom is from Kent and is a 10th grader at Thomas Jefferson High School in Auburn. “Arunan is a gifted artist, and I look forward to seeing his art work on display in the Capitol this year. His art work will represent Washington state very well.” said Congressman Smith. “I am also proud and encouraged to see so many young people from around the 9th District interested in the arts. All of the entries were unique in their own way and I hope all of the contestants continue to purse the arts and enrich our local art community.” The Congressional Art Competition is an annual event that allows each Member of Congress to display one piece of artwork, created by a high school student in their district, in the Capitol for one year. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. This marks the 13th year Congressman Smith has hosted the art competition. The winner and runners up were announced at a ceremony held at the Tacoma Art Museum on Saturday. First place honors went to Arunan Mukphrom of Thomas Jefferson High School. In addition to having his work displayed in the United States Capitol building, Arunan will receive three round trip tickets to Washington, D.C. for the 2009 Congressional Art Competition Reception, a $1,500 renewable scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design, and several other prizes donated by the local art community. Second place honors went to Chelsea Greenwood of Mt. Rainier Lutheran High School for her charcoal “Earlier that Day.” Chelsea Tacoma Art Museum and Tacoma Art Place. Chelsea will receive memberships to the Tacoma Art Museum and Tacoma Art Place. Kevin Olson of Federal Way High School came in third with his photograph, “Apple and Nails.” He will receive 4 complimentary passes to Tacoma Art Museum and an annual membership Tacoma Art Place. Honorable mentions went to Amanda Hainer of Auburn High School, Heather Woodside of Northwest Christian High School, and Chris Wright of Federal Way High School.
4.22.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement in honor of Earth Day: “Today we recognize not only the 39th annual celebration of Earth Day, but also a unique moment in our country’s history to make significant changes to the way we treat the environment. Over the last few years we have seen a ground swell of support around greening efforts and legislation to reverse and reduce the human effects on the environment. The evidence of climate change is real, the effects significant, and the impacts worsening. I am committed to conserving our natural resources and protecting our environment for future generations. The time to act is now. We have come a long way in recognizing our responsibilities as stewards of the environment, but we have much more work to do. In Congress we are taking this issue seriously. If we look at protecting our environment as an opportunity to build a clean energy economy, we can create millions of clean energy jobs, improve our national security by reducing our dependency on foreign oil, and develop renewable and safe energy sources like wind, solar and geothermal. Protecting the environment is not just the responsibility of governments and private industries; it is the responsibility of individuals as well. By integrating energy efficient behaviors into our everyday lives, such as turning off lights or unplugging unused appliances, or simply recycling, we can collectively have a large scale impact on our environment and in conserving our resources. This Earth Day let us remember that the responsibility rests with no single entity or individual, but with all of us. As Congress works to do its part and private industries to do theirs, let us all remember that we all have a stake in protecting our environment for generations to come.” ###
3.27.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement concerning President Obama’s strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan: “President Obama’s strategy puts America’s focus back where it should be: on the threat from al Qaeda. For far too long, we had no strategy and failed to devote the resources and personnel needed to defeat al Qaeda and deny it safe haven in Afghanistan and Pakistan. While nothing about this region is easy, the President’s first-ever strategy demonstrates a stronger, smarter, and more comprehensive approach to countering al Qaeda and its allies. “In Afghanistan, our commanders have been calling for more troops for years, and the President’s plan will nearly double U.S. forces on the ground, with a particular emphasis on training Afghan forces to secure their own country. “The President’s strategy also acknowledges that military force alone is not sufficient to achieve our goals. He calls for major increases in civilian personnel to help do the critical counterinsurgency work needed to empower Afghans to reject the Taliban and al Qaeda. “The President’s plan also squarely addresses the daunting challenges in Pakistan, where al Qaeda enjoys a safe haven. In order for the Pakistanis to work with us, they need to trust us as reliable ally. The President’s pledge of an additional $1.5 billion per year in non-military, accountable assistance to Pakistan will help demonstrate our commitment and bolster that trust. At the same time, the President commits to the kind of tough diplomacy and direct engagement needed to boost Pakistan’s effectiveness in fighting extremists. “There are no quick fixes to this problem, and we will continue to face setbacks in this difficult region. But the threat from al Qaeda still looms nearly eight years after 9/11, and I am reassured that President Obama’s strategy finally puts us on a path to eliminating that threat.” ###Sign up for email updates to learn more
3.3.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Chairman of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities, made the following statement after the Obama Administration announced it will dispatch two senior officials to Syria. Congressman Smith recently returned from a trip to Syria where he met with President Bashar al-Assad and discussed a fresh start to relations with Syria. “The Obama administration’s announcement to dispatch two senior officials to Syria to begin to initiate dialogue is a positive development and signals a new direction in U.S. relations not just with Syria, but the entire Middle East. After visiting with President Bashar al-Assad a few weeks ago, it was clear that the regime seeks to begin the process of thawing its relationship with the United States and the West. While we clearly have substantial differences, we also have a number of mutual interests in the region and we should begin to discuss all of these issues. “The Administration is mindful of the challenges we face and does not believe they will be easy to overcome, but the road to solving our problems starts with dialogue. Syria can help or hinder the prospects of peace and stability in the region and it’s our job to persuade them to be a positive partner. Sending senior officials from the Administration to initiate dialogue is a step in the right direction.”
2.13.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement after his vote in support of the American Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act: “America faces the worst economic crisis since The Great Depression. Since this recession began approximately 3.6 million American jobs have been lost – nearly 600,000 last month alone. Americans are losing their homes and businesses, their jobs, their health care and their savings. This is not a time for us to stand by and hope our economy recovers on its own. We must act decisively. The longer we wait, the more jobs will be lost and I am not willing to stand by and watch as Americans continue to lose their jobs. “The Economic Recovery Plan passed by the House today is not perfect, but it is the right size and scope to help stimulate our economy in the short-term and lay the foundation for long-term broad based economic viability. The plan will create or save 3.5 million jobs and make unprecedented investments in our infrastructure to modernize our roads, bridges and mass transit. It will cut taxes for 95% of workers, invest in an energy independent future and build energy efficient buildings and clean water projects. “Voting for a stimulus package of this size was not easy, but it was necessary and urgent. I am deeply concerned about our growing deficit and have been for a long time, but the threats to our economy are real and doing nothing is simply not an option. We must use this crisis as an opportunity to invest in our country and build a stronger and more prosperous future.” ### Sign up for email updates to learn more.
2.13.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today applauded the inclusion of legislation to expand and improve the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program in the Economic Recovery Package. The measure will extend TAA to service industry workers, increase funding for and improve access to training, health care, and income support, and create a program to address community-wide needs. Smith worked closely with House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.) and Senator Max Baucus during the last session of Congress in his efforts to expand TAA and other job training programs. Congressman Smith introduced similar legislation to enhance TAA in the 108th, 109th and 110th Congresses. “Improving the TAA program is more important now then ever before,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “The current economic crisis is accelerating the displacement of workers and we must help them adjust and refine their skill sets to advance their careers in this fluid and unpredictable job market. While we cannot walk away from globalization, we must help provide a bridge between jobs - through training, support and healthcare - to help individuals transition to the jobs and career paths of the future.” Congress created the TAA program in 1962 in response to the loss of jobs among hard-working Americans and to promote American competitiveness in the global economy. TAA benefits have several components: training assistance, income support while in training, and interim health care support. The program assists workers dislocated due to government policies that eliminated tariffs and other barriers to trade. However, under current law, the program extends coverage only to workers in manufacturing and agricultural sectors, even though service-sector jobs also are increasingly moving overseas. The Expansion of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Program: Extends TAA to trade-affected service-sector workers and workers affected by offshoring or outsourcing to all countries, including China or India; Increases training funds available to states by 160 percent to $575 million per fiscal year; Establishes a new TAA program for trade-affected communities; Ensures automatic TAA eligibility for workers suffering from import surges and unfair trade; Makes training, healthcare and reemployment TAA benefits more accessible and flexible, and improves the TAA for Firms and TAA for Farmers programs; Reauthorizes all TAA programs (which expired December 31, 2007) through December 31, 2010. “Due to globalization our economy is rapidly transforming, and so must our policies to help displaced workers,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Service-sector employees are also adversely affected by the changing economy and increasingly by the recent economic downturn. We must do everything we can to help them and all other displaced workers transition into the growing sectors of our economy.” ### Sign up for email updates to learn more.
2.5.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) was appointed to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) by Speaker Nancy Pelosi. The appointment will allow Smith to engage in deeper and broader oversight and policy development on a wide range of national security issues. “It’s an honor to be appointed to the Intelligence Committee,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “I look forward to helping provide the intelligence community with the resources and tools they need to ensure our safety, as well as to conducting rigorous oversight to ensure our intelligence system works and that Americans’ basic freedoms are protected.” Currently, Smith serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities, in which he oversees America’s Special Operation Forces and their lead role in counterterrorism and counterinsurgency policy. The appointment to the Intelligence Committee will bolster Smith’s ability to conduct comprehensive oversight and shape policy on these and other critical national security issues. HPSCI was created on July 14, 1977 to oversee intelligence and intelligence-related activities and programs, submit appropriate proposals for legislation and report to the House on intelligence-related activities and programs. HPSCI has exclusive jurisdiction over the National Intelligence Program (NIP), the budget program for national-level intelligence programs, and all legislative activity affecting or relating to how the U.S. Government collects intelligence. HPSCI shares responsibilities with the Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, Foreign Affairs, Judiciary, and Homeland Security and works in conjunction with the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. These inter-committee interactions are a vital means of coordination and essential to Unites States national security. ### Sign up for email updates to learn more.
2.4.2009	Rep. Adam Smith today joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives in support of the final version of legislation to provide health care to 11 million children. The legislation is expected to reduce the number of uninsured children in Washington state by 42%. The State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act was approved by a vote of 290-135. “The renewal of SCHIP is a significant win for Washington state. With unemployment rising, causing many to lose healthcare for their children and their families, this reauthorization is especially important,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “I was proud to support efforts to increase the number of insured children in our state which will reduce the costly use of emergency rooms for primary care, and move us closer to providing every child in our nation with affordable, high-quality health care.” Further, Congressman Smith was particularly pleased to see that the significant gains for Washington state were included in the today’s final version. The legislation allows Washington state to use a larger portion of its federal allocation, above the 20% previously allowed, for SCHIP through FY 2013. When SCHIP was first implemented, Washington state already covered SCHIP-eligible children under our state’s Medicaid program. Because of this it is considered a ‘qualifying’ state and has not been allowed to transfer kids from Medicaid to SCHIP or use the full federal allotment for SCHIP on the Medicaid kids. The bill will also provide matching funds to assist with the state’s planned expansion to cover kids up to 300% of the federal poverty line. The bill was passed by the House today and signed into law by President Obama this evening. ### Sign up for email updates to learn more.
1.28.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement after his vote in support of the American Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act: “Our nation is in a serious economic crisis. Over the past two months, one million Americans have lost their jobs. Just this week, companies considered some of our nation’s most sturdy and economically sound announced plans to lay-off 55,000 more people. The number of people currently receiving unemployment benefits has reached its highest level since 1982 – approximately 4.6 million people. We need decisive action to confront the growing economic crisis, jumpstart our economy and lay a foundation for sustainable long-term growth. “The Recovery Package is not a cure-all, but it will provide a jolt to our economy and begin to lay the foundation necessary for long-term sustainable economic growth. It upgrades our current infrastructure – such as roads, bridges, ports and schools – and invests in innovation infrastructure through broadband, health information technology and clean energy. It contains a middle class tax cut to provide families immediate relief and targeted tax cuts to help businesses grow and hire. It will provide a college tuition tax cut to help families pay for college and a homebuyer tax credit to stop home prices from plummeting. “Earlier this month, I sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi and the Appropriations Committee Chairmen demanding that any stimulus package contain strong accountability and transparency measures. I am pleased to see that these requests have been incorporated into the stimulus package, including a dedicated website where citizens can track every penny and hold federal, state, and local officials accountable for their performance. “With all that said, voting for a stimulus package of this size was still not easy, but it was necessary. I am deeply concerned about our growing deficit, but the threats to our economy are real and doing nothing was simply not an option. We must use this crisis as an opportunity to invest in our country and build a stronger and more prosperous future.” ### Sign up for email updates to learn more.
1.19.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in observance of Martin Luther King Day: “We welcome this year's celebration of Martin Luther King Day with great pride. The swearing in of Barack Obama as the 44th President of the United States is the ultimate tribute to the life of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and a milestone in our quest for racial equality. We have made great strides, and few moments will remind us of how far we have come than the swearing in of the first African American president. So, as we reflect today on the great life of Dr. King, let us also reflect on how far we have come. Let us mark this moment as the time when we became a more tolerant and passionate country where all men are created equal and judged by the content of their character and merit of their works, not the color of their skin.” ### Sign up for email updates to learn more.
1.15.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-9) authored a letter sent to Speaker Pelosi and Minority Leader Boehner and committee leadership requesting transparency and accountability requirements for all federal funding in the upcoming economic stimulus package. Specifically, the letter called for requirements to track and measure the impact of federal dollars, ensure spending efficacy and thorough reporting, and make certain that projects eligible for funding through the package have the widest possible exposure to qualified contractors. “It is critical that Congress improve transparency and accountability in all federal spending, and particularly in this new package that will inject hundreds of billions of dollars into our economy,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Technologies exist to track the disbursement and measure the impacts of economic stimulus funds, and we should make sure to use these critical tools. Doing so will not only increase Congressional oversight and taxpayer confidence, but also help eliminate waste and fraud.” The letter urged House and committee leadership to include three major provisions to the upcoming economic stimulus package: 1) Track in detail how stimulus funds are spent by state, county and municipal entities, with project visibility from start to finish, and compliance reporting, while placing as little burden as possible on the recipient entities; 2) Report the resulting economic impacts down to the local level so the effectiveness of funding can be measured and future funding can be allocated with maximum impact; 3) Provide qualified businesses across the United States a simple method to access federally-funded stimulus projects as soon as they are let out for bid, at no cost to businesses. ### Sign up for email updates to learn more.
1.15.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) introduced legislation today to ensure that veterans discharged for “combat-related” injuries receive the benefits they have earned. In March 2008, the DoD narrowed the definition of “combat-related” and it has cost disabled veterans thousands of dollars in benefits. The legislation would revert back to the definition used prior to March 2008. “This policy change has denied men and women in our armed forces - who have obviously sustained combat-related injures - access to thousands of dollars in benefits,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “This is unacceptable. Our brave men and woman in the armed services put their lives at risk everyday for this country and the least we can do is pay them the benefits they have earned.” Last year, the Department of Defense issued a directive-memo which narrowed the scope of the definition of “combat-related.” This new definition made it more difficult for disabled veterans to receive their benefits from both the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs. The previous definition of “combat-related” was broadly defined and covered most, if not all, injuries sustained in a combat zone, combat training or other hazardous service. The new policy restricts the definition to include only those injured directly through armed conflict. As a result, members of the military who were injured while taking cover from incoming fire or sustained injuries from a roadside bomb have had their injuries ruled as being unrelated to combat, costing them thousands of dollars in benefits. Due to his concerns with the change in policy and its impact on disabled veterans, Congressman Adam Smith introduced bipartisan legislation to require the Department of Defense to revert back to the definition used prior to the policy change in March 2008. ### Sign up for email updates to learn more.
1.15.2009	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09.) voted with a bipartisan majority in favor of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act. The bill renews and improves SCHIP, providing health care coverage for 11 million children – preserving coverage for the 7 million children currently covered by SCHIP and extends it to 4 million uninsured children who are currently eligible for, but not enrolled in, SCHIP and Medicaid. “The reauthorization of SCHIP is a major victory for children in Washington state and across the country,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “The renewal provides millions of children with one of their most fundamental needs – quality healthcare.” SCHIP was created in 1997 to help families get medical care when they made too much money to get Medicaid but not enough to buy private insurance. The bill passed by the House today will provide states resources needed for outreach to enroll eligible families in the program. Congressman Smith was particularly pleased to see significant gains for Washington state in today’s bill. The legislation allows Washington state to use a larger portion of its federal allocation, above the 20% previously allowed, for SCHIP through FY 2013. When SCHIP was first implemented, Washington state already covered SCHIP-eligible children under our state’s Medicaid program. Because of this it is considered a ‘qualifying’ state and has not been allowed to transfer kids from Medicaid to SCHIP or use the full federal allotment for SCHIP on the Medicaid kids. Further, the bill will provide matching funds to assist with the state’s planned expansion to cover kids up to 300% of the federal poverty line. The bill also includes a provision – another benefit to Washington state -- that would give states the option of covering legal immigrant children who have been less than five years under SCHIP and Medicaid. It covers children – legally here – sooner than a five-year waiting period, in order to prevent critical health problems from going unchecked. Washington is one of 22 states that uses state funds to cover this population and current federal law prohibits them from being eligible for SCHIP in their first 5 years of residency. “The renewal of SCHIP is a win for our country and a win for Washington state,” said Smith. “With unemployment rising, causing many to lose healthcare for their childrenand their families, this reauthorization is exceptionally important." ### Sign up for email updates to learn more.
1.12.2009	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) toured the town of Pacific over the weekend to meet with local leaders and residents and survey damage caused by the recent flooding. In addition to surveying the damage, the purpose of the trip was also to identify how the Federal Government can help with the recovery efforts and evaluate what can be done to prevent flooding of this scale in the future. "I want to applaud the residents and local leaders who have responded extremely well in the face of this crisis. They had an emergency plan in place and they executed the plan very effectively," said Congressman Adam Smith. "We must now focus our attention on getting assistance to individuals and businesses in need of help with their recovery efforts. Homes and businesses have been severely damaged and there cannot be a delay in getting help to these people, they are relying on us to give them direction and assistance during this difficult time." Governor Gregoire gave a preliminary estimate of damage to roads and state property at $125 million. U.S. Transportation Secretary Mary Peters announced Friday that the state had immediate access to $2 million in federal aid and pledged more support once detailed assessments have been made. Congressman Smith has called for the disbursement of more federal funding and a timely assessment of what can be done to prevent this sort of flooding from happening again. "We must also continue to assess the situation and put measures in place to prevent this sort of flooding in the future," Rep. Smith continued. "We should evaluate the levee system and current flood plain management plans and make any adjustments necessary to ensure flooding of this magnitude never happens again. My office will continue to be a resource to all the individuals, business owners and local officials during their recovery efforts." ### Sign up for email updates to learn more.
12.9.2008	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) congratulated Pierce County Fire Department District 17 on being awarded a $291,393 grant from the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency and U.S. Fire Administration. “This money is critical to improving the safety conditions and efficiency of our firefighters. Over the last couple years, this program has become increasingly competitive and I applaud the department for its efforts in receiving this grant.” said Congressman Adam Smith. “The funding will not only protect the health and well-being of our firefighters, it will also improve their ability to protect the health and well-being of the residents they serve. Our nation’s fire departments are the first responders to almost every emergency situation and sometimes communities struggle to find the funding necessary to ensure their local fire departments function as safely and efficiently as possible. This grant program is one of the ways that we can help to ensure they have the funding necessary to protect our communities and themselves.” The grant will provide funding to purchase new radio devices to improve communication and install an exhaust removal system in all four of its stations. Currently, the department has no formal exhaust removal system. The new systems will dramatically reduce firefighters’ exposure to harmful toxins released by vehicle exhaust and trapped in the garage. The new radios will significantly increase communication abilities within the department and allow emergency response to be coordinated more effectively. The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical services organizations. The grant, which has existed since 2001, helps firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. The grant is administered through the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration.
12.1.2008	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09), Chairman of the House Armed Services Terrorism Subcommittee and Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on President-elect Barack Obama’s choices for his administration’s national security team: “President-elect Obama has demonstrated, once again, that he will be a pragmatic, thoughtful leader detached from partisan politics and grounded in his commitment to restoring America’s standing in the world and safeguarding our security here at home. “Retaining Secretary Gates is an excellent decision. Over the last two years, he has restored accountability to the Department of Defense and done a tremendous job managing extremely difficult situations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Gates is a highly competent leader who commands respect and can help President-Elect Obama shift gears in Iraq responsibly and place greater emphasis on Afghanistan. “Senator Hillary Clinton is a very good choice for Secretary of State. She is respected around the world and has an understanding of the international system and how the United States can lead more effectively within it. Her appointment will be well received around the globe and her service will help to restore our standing in the world. “I am pleased with all of President-elect Obama’s appointments to his national security team. In particular, Gen. James Jones and Dr. Susan Rice, both of whom I have worked with and come to respect immensely over the years, will make an excellent National Security Adviser and Ambassador to the United Nations, respectively. As demonstrated by the recent attacks in Mumbai and the attacks in Iraq today, difficult global challenges will continue to confront the next administration and it’s imperative that President Obama be surrounded by dedicated professionals who share his vision and compliment his sound judgment. With the appointments today, President-elect Obama has ensured this.”
12.1.2008	Rep. Adam Smith released the following statement on the recent attacks in Mumbai, India: “The terrorist attacks that took place last week are extremely unfortunate and saddening. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and the people of India.” “These coordinated and ruthless attacks on innocent civilians demonstrate the severe and urgent threat of violent extremism that the whole world faces. I hope this incident will remind people around the world that we must work together to root out violent extremism wherever it exists. This threat is not confined to a single nation or alliance of nations, it’s an ideology that spans the globe and so must our effort to stop it.”
11.21.2008	Today, the President signed into law H.R. 6867, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2008, which extends unemployment insurance benefits for more than 2 million Americans. The bill, supported by Congressman Smith, passed the House on October 3, 2008, was cleared by the Senate yesterday. “With the unemployment rate at a 16-year high and a weakening economy, it is imperative that Congress act to protect struggling Americans,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Not only are people losing their jobs, but individuals out of work are struggling to regain their financial footing. This extension of unemployment insurance benefits provides critical support and a measure of economic safety in these troubling times. I applaud the Senate for passing this bill and am pleased the President quickly signed it into law.” The Unemployment Compensation Extension Act, H.R. 6867, provides an additional seven weeks of unemployment insurance benefits for workers who have exhausted their regular unemployment compensation, and an additional 13 weeks for workers in states with an average seasonally-adjusted unemployment rates of 6% or higher for three months. Washington state is currently experiencing an unemployment rate of 6.8 percent, based upon October 2008 Department of Labor data. H.R. 6867 will provide relief to America’s workers and stimulate the economy. Extending these benefits is one of the most cost-effective and fast-acting ways to stimulate the economy because the money is spent quickly, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Some key components of the bill include that it will provide: Approximately $6 billion in benefits to be paid from the Federal unemployment trust fund, which has more than enough reserves to cover the cost; An additional 7 weeks of extended unemployment benefits for workers who have exhausted regular unemployment compensation; An additional 13 weeks of benefits workers in high-unemployment states.
11.11.2008	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) made the following statement in observance of Veterans Day: “Today we honor the brave men and women who have served in defense of our country and its values and ideals. Over the course of history, millions of brave Americans have served as the shield of America’s freedom at home and as a beacon of hope abroad. They have served selflessly to protect the promise of America and the citizens who embrace her. Through the valor and strength of our veterans and our current servicemembers, America has repeatedly stood firm in the face of tyranny and terror. For this service we are forever grateful and indebted.” “As someone who is privileged to represent thousands of military personnel, veterans, and their families in the Puget Sound Region, it is an honor to ensure they receive the benefits and support they deserve. I will continue to work with and listen to our veterans to ensure their needs are being met. I will be meeting with local representatives to get their ideas on how to improve housing for our veterans and visiting injured soldiers to ensure their healthcare is adequate. Next month, I am hosting a Town Hall meeting that will bring veterans together with local and federal service providers to ensure their needs are being met and answer any question they may have. Over the last few years we have made historic budget increases for veteran services, and in the 111th Congress I will continue to work in a bipartisan way to expand services for our veterans.” “America boasts the best-trained, most professional troops in the world. They and their families make enormous sacrifices on our behalf, and they have earned our support and gratitude. This Veterans Day, let us remember their courage, their sacrifices, and our commitments to them.”
10.3.2008	Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement after his vote in support of the bipartisan Financial Recovery package, passed in the House today by a vote of 263 to 171: "I am pleased that the Senate acted quickly to create a strong bipartisan solution to our country’s economic crisis. I am hopeful this action will provide the tools to help free-up our financial system and avert a much more severe economic downturn.” “The Senate version of the package, which is actually three bills combined, includes not only the rescue package, but also a bill extending expiring tax cuts provisions and a mental health parity bill. I support the thrust of these additional measures, which will help protect the middle class from a tax increase, spur greater investment in renewable energy, and help struggling Americans receive health care. While I am concerned that some of these added provisions are not fully paid for, I believe the economic crisis our country faces demands that we act quickly and decisively. This legislation, while not perfect, is necessary to address the weaknesses in our economy and protect and help the American people in this time of crisis.” “This was not an easy vote, but we are not in easy times. Our country faces a severe economic crisis. This is not a time for inaction. The credit crunch is real and is having a serious effect on small businesses and individuals across the country. An economic slow down cannot be avoided at this point, but this bill can make it far less painful and hopefully give us a chance
9.26.2008	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) introduced legislation in the House of Representatives today to ensure that American citizens and legal residents returning to the U.S. from overseas are not subject to invasive searches of their laptop computers or other electronic devices without any suspicion of wrongdoing. Senator Russell Feingold will introduce a similar bill in the Senate today. “The chief responsibility of the United States Government is to protect its citizens, and while doing so it is critical that we do not overshadow the obligation to protect the privacy and rights of Americans,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “This legislation will provide clear and commonsense legal avenues for the Department of Homeland Security to pursue those who commit crime and wish to do our country harm without infringing on the rights of American citizens. Importantly, it will provide travelers a level of privacy for their computers, digital cameras, cellular telephones and other electronic devices consistent with the Constitution and our nation’s values of liberty.” The Travelers Privacy Protection Act was introduced in response to a Department of Homeland Security policy, released on July 16th that allows customs agents to “review and analyze” the contents and files of laptops and other electronic devices for an unspecified period of time “absent individualized suspicion.” This policy was issued following report of U.S. customs agents requiring citizens and legal residents to relinquish their laptops or cell phones to DHS authorities for lengthy periods of time while the devices were searched, and in some cases, contents of the devices copied. Reports have also surfaced that some devices had been confiscated and returned weeks or months later with no explanation. The Travelers Privacy Protection Act requires reasonable suspicion of illegal activity for Department of Homeland Security agents to search the contents of laptop computers or other electronic devices carried by U.S. citizens or lawful residents, and it prohibits profiling travelers based on their race, ethnicity, religion, or national origin. Additionally, the bill requires probable cause and a warrant or court order to seize information uncovered during a search, and specifies that searches carried on for more than 24 hours become a seizure. This bill also ensures that information acquired during an electronic search is protected by strict disclosure limitations, with exceptions for sharing information about possible criminal violations or foreign intelligence information. The Travelers Privacy Protection Act also ensures that DHS provides information on its border search policies and practices to Congress and the public.
9.25.2008	Congressman Adam Smith secured $24.6 million for military projects in the Puget Sound The funding was included in a spending package that included funds for the Department of Defense, Department of Veterans Affairs, and military construction projects for fiscal year 2009. “This package helps restore our military’s readiness and provides our troops and families with the support they need. I’m also pleased that we included funds for important projects at Ft. Lewis, McChord Air Force Base and around the region,” Smith said. These important projects include: $8.6 million for Washington State Air National Guard’s 262nd Information Warfare Aggressor Squadron to build a new cyber-warfare facility for use by the (IWAS) at McChord Air Force Base. $2 million for the Stryker Situation Awareness Soldier Protection Package, to equip the Stryker vehicle drivers of Ft. Lewis’ 5th Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 2nd Infantry Division, with transparent armor; Carapace, LLC, North Andover, Mass. $200,000 for the Madigan Army Medical Center Digital Pen project to acquire digital pens that capture and upload writing electronically while also recording care in ink on paper to improve the process of recording and transmitting patient care information; ADAPX, Seattle, Wash. $1.6 million for the Tacoma Trauma Trust - Madigan Army Medical Center Trauma Assistance Program to provide critical trauma training for military medical personnel, while providing essential Level II trauma treatment for South King, Pierce, Kitsap, and Thurston Counties and southwest Washington for both military beneficiaries and civilian residents; Madigan Army Medical Center, Tacoma General Hospital, and St. Joseph’s Hospital, Tacoma, Wash. $4.4 million for the University of Washington’s Institute of Surgical and Interventional Simulation (ISIS) to upgrade existing facilities, expand their existing partnerships with Madigan Army Medical Center and VA Puget Sound, and explore ways in which surgical simulation can enhance the treatment and rehabilitation of soldiers; University of Washington, Seattle, Wash. $3 million for the Oregon Biomedical Engineering Institute, for research on limb and tissue regeneration for battlefield injuries using bone marrow and stem cells; Oregon Biomedical Engineering Institute, Portland, Ore. $1.6 million for million for Optical Neural Techniques for Combat/Post-Trauma Health Care with the potential to provide full restoration of hearing for injured soldiers; Aculight Corporation, Bothell, Wash. $3.2 for Mobile Object Infrastructure Technology enabling the U.S. Army Intelligence Command (INSCOM) to continue research and development of solutions to network computing challenges, including bandwidth and information-sharing constraints; Topia Technology, Tacoma, Wash. Congressman Smith also helped secure key funds for programs vitally important to the Fort Lewis and McChord military community including: $56 million for the Readiness and Environment Protection Initiative (REPI). Smith has successfully advocated for REPI funds to be used to acquire land and development rights in the buffer zone North of McChord Air Force Base’s runway. This vital program helps public and private entities establish protective buffer zones around military installations. These buffer zones help insulate military installations from encroachment from development that can adversely impact the military’s ability to train. $40 million for Impact Aid, which compensates school districts with a significant population of students from military families. School districts surrounding Ft. Lewis and McChord rely heavily on the program.
9.17.2008	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement on The American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act passed by the House by a vote of 236 - 189: “The House delivered a comprehensive energy bill that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil and spur the development of renewable energy sources and energy efficient technologies here at home.” “This bill will change the direction of our energy policy and begin to move our country away from its reliance on fossil fuels. It eliminates tax breaks for the five largest oil and gas companies and invests that money instead in renewable energy sources and conservation efficiencies. The package provides $18 billion in tax breaks to spur green jobs, reduce energy consumption, improve efficiency, generate alternative and renewable sources of energy and reduce our reliance on foreign sources of energy. It would also require utility companies to generate 15 percent of electricity from renewable sources by 2020, invest royalties from oil companies owed to taxpayers into alternative energy, and expand incentives for investment into solar and wind energy and plug-in hybrids. “I have some concerns about the bill’s provisions to expand drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf, which experts agree will not reduce gas prices and will present new environmental risks to our coastal communities. Yet the drilling provisions were crafted in a limited and responsible way, and on the whole this compromise package provides the change in direction we need in our nation’s energy policy.” “I am proud to support this compromise package and will keep working to change course from the costly, outdated energy policies of the past to the innovative energy policies Americans have been waiting for.”
9.11.2008	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement on the anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks: “Today we focus our thoughts and prayers on all those who perished in the brutal attacks on our country on September 11, 2001. We pay homage to the families they left behind and salute the brave men and women who have kept us safe in the days since. We must never forget the first responders who selflessly risked and gave their lives trying to save their fellow Americans. The images of that day will forever be seared into our collective memory and the price paid will never be forgotten.” “We must honor the devastating loss on that day with vigilance, temperament and resolve. We must remember that many of those who committed this tragedy still walk the earth free men, and continue to plot and plan against the U.S. and our interests. We must redouble our efforts to bring these men to justice and to prevent further attacks. Let today serve as a reminder that we must never become complacent, that we must always be vigilant and act in a manner in accordance with our values and with our nation’s best interests at heart.” “Our brave men and women in uniform have done an outstanding job around the globe fighting for our freedom and we must honor their service with sound judgment and thoughtful policy. With dedication to our ideals and a commitment to bringing those who brought our country harm to justice, today we stand not as Democrats or Republicans, but as American citizens dedicated to ensuring we never witness an attack like September 11th again.”
9.10.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement regarding Secretary of Defense Robert Gates’ announcement that the Department of Defense will delay its decision on a $35 Billion tanker contract until the next administration: “While I applaud this decision, I have serious misgivings about the management of the process thus far and the fact that our troops now face a further delay in getting newer tankers to replace the aging planes in the current fleet. Our troops deserve better. However, given the short timeframe before a new administration takes over, as well as the significant problems and controversy surrounding the tanker, this was the fairest course of action for all parties involved. “A new Administration can bring a much-needed fresh outlook and fair-minded approach to the tanker acquisition. This is the right step for our military, Boeing workers, the residents of Washington State and the American tax payers.” “I look forward to working with the new administration to provide a fair and open tanker competition and ensure the mistakes of the past are not repeated.”
9.10.2008	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) released the following statement on the President’s plan to reduce force levels in Iraq by approximately 8,000 troops and slightly modify troop levels in Afghanistan over the next six months: “The President made it clear through his slight troop reduction announcement that he intends to maintain a long-term, unsustainable presence in Iraq. The situation on the ground in Iraq would permit - and the needs of our overstrained military and our struggling mission in Afghanistan demand - a much larger troop reduction, at a significantly faster pace. The President has effectively deferred the development of a responsible Iraq exit strategy to the next Administration. That is highly irresponsible.” “The deteriorating situation in Afghanistan demands a dramatic adjustment to our current strategy. The President’s slight reduction of troops in Iraq, coupled with a troop reshuffling in Afghanistan that essentially maintains the status quo, shows that he does not grasp the severity of the situation in Afghanistan and the danger posed by under-resourcing our mission there. Any future attacks on the United States are most likely to originate from the Afghanistan-Pakistan border area, and we cannot allow the region to become a terrorist sanctuary or fall to the Taliban. But our forces continue to be overwhelmingly concentrated in Iraq. The President’s announcement demonstrates he is unwilling to divert from this dangerous course. ” “Our troops remain the best in the world, and their efforts have helped dramatically improve the situation in Iraq. We must honor their sacrifice by bringing them home and ensuring their accomplishments in Afghanistan do not slip away.”
8.1.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today applauded the passage of H.R.6599, the Fiscal Year 2009 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. This legislation will provide $93.7 billion for veterans’ programs, an increase of nearly $6.1 billion over last year’s funding level. The bill passed the House by a vote of 409-4. “This funding reaffirms our commitment to provide world class care for those who have faithfully served our country. Building on last year’s appropriations bill, which provided the single largest increase for veterans’ programs in the history of the VA, this bill again increases our investments to ensure veterans have timely access to top-notch VA health care and facilities,” Smith said. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Mental Health Care: $3.8 billion for specialty mental health care to ensure that all veterans have access to mental health services and $584 million for substance abuse programs. Facility Maintenance and Renovations: $5 billion for maintenance and renovations on existing facilities to address shortfalls and ensure the facilities remain capable of providing first-class care. “Priority 8” Veterans: $568 million to increase the enrollment of “Priority 8” veterans in VA healthcare by 10%. These are veterans who exceed a certain economic threshold and do not have a service-connected condition. This will be the first time there has been new enrollment for Priority 8 veterans since 2003. Assistance for Homeless Veterans: $130 million for the homeless grants program and to hire additional personnel for the HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Program. Travel Reimbursements: $100 million to raise the beneficiary travel reimbursement rate from 28.5 cents per mile to 41.5 cents per mile. Claims Processors: Funds for 1,400 new claims processors to reduce the backlog of disability and other claims on behalf of veterans. In addition to providing for veterans, H.R.6599 provides $24.8 billion for military construction and other projects that will improve living conditions and quality of life for military personnel. Locally, Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base will receive $344.1 million for construction projects, including $8.6 million for a new facility for the 262nd Information Warfare Aggressor Squadron (IWAS), a project specifically requested and secured by Congressman Smith. “The 262nd IWAS, a Washington State Air National Guard squadron, is at the cutting edge of protecting U.S. national security in today’s high-tech world. I am proud to have these cyber warriors - most of whom have civilian day jobs at local tech companies - here in the Puget Sound area. They need this new facility as the squadron takes on a more prominent role in America’s cyber-security efforts,” Smith said. The Senate must now consider similar legislation before the bill can be signed into law by the President.
7.25.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) and a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives yesterday passed landmark legislation to expand U.S. efforts to fight HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis around the world. Included in the legislation were provisions proposed by Smith and Rep. Elliot Engel (D-N.Y.) to combat tuberculosis. The bill passed by a vote of 303 - 115. “The HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis pandemics have caused immense suffering around the globe, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. These diseases form part of a continuing spiral of poverty and disease in developing countries that threaten prospects for economic growth and stability. This expansion was the moral thing to do, and I hope we can continue to build on it,” Smith said. Congress passed the original U.S. Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Act on a bipartisan basis in May 2003, and appropriated $19.3 billion over the past five years for the program. The measure, based on the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), has saved millions of lives worldwide. The bipartisan measure passed yesterday authorizes nearly $50 billion over the next five years - $20 billion more than the President’s original request – to transition from an emergency response to long-term sustainability that can be maintained by host countries. The bill also adds emphasis to tuberculosis and malaria prevention, including Smith’s language related to tuberculosis, the “Stop TB” bill. Smith helped shape the bill’s tuberculosis provisions, which include: Requiring patient referrals between HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis programs; Enhanced testing and treatment in countries with high TB rates; New strategies for attacking forms of drug-resistant TB; Assistance for the World Health Organization Stop Tuberculosis Partnership to cut TB deaths and infections in half by 2016; and $4 billion in funding for programs to combat TB for fiscal years 2009-2013. The President is expected to sign the bill into law in the coming days.
7.23.2008	Today, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) paused with other Members of Congress to commemorate the 60th President Truman’s Executive Order 9981declared that “there be equality of treatment and opportunity for all persons in the armed services without regard to race, color, religion, or national origin.” While the full integration of the armed services did not come until October 30, 1954, when the last racially segregated unit was abolished, President Truman’s Executive Order marked the beginning of the integration of the Armed Forces. Anniversary of President Harry Truman’s executive order to integrate the United States Armed Services. “Today, as we commemorate this historic civil rights reform, we also take a moment to honor the valorous service of members from various communities of color who answered the call and served their nation in the Armed Services. We have come a long way since President Truman’s order, with personnel from the African-American as well as the Asian Pacific Islander and Latino communities, among others, serving in great numbers throughout our military today. I couldn’t be more grateful for their service, or more committed to ensuring our military upholds the bedrock principle of equality our country represents,” Smith said. Congress marked the occasion today with a ceremony in the Rotunda of the United States Capitol. Smith also voted in favor of a resolution on July 14, 2008, recognizing the 60th anniversary of the Executive Order. The resolution passed the House unanimously.
7.17.2008	U.S. Reps. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) and Mac Thornberry (R-TX) today called for a new United States strategy to combat the spread of violent terrorist ideology before a forum of 150 national security experts and practitioners. Smith and Thornberry discussed their legislation, recently included in the House-passed Defense Authorization bill, which would require the President to develop a comprehensive, integrated strategy for strategic communication and public diplomacy. “Strategic communication and public diplomacy were central to our fight against communism in the Cold War, and they should remain front-and-center as we work to roll back al-Qaeda’s and other violent extremists’ influence among disaffected populations. Various organizations within our government work in some way to counter terrorist messages, but we lack a coordinated, comprehensive, adequately resourced plan to confront al-Qaeda’s ideology through a strategic message campaign,” Smith said. Click Here to Link to a Video of the Forum Our nation’s multifaceted fight against al-Qaida and their allies includes efforts to counter their ideology – a war of ideas. Terrorist groups aggressively push their narrative through new and traditional media with the aim of radicalizing and recruiting from new populations. Through clever use of the Internet and a steady trickle of video messages distributed to and through the media, al-Qaeda drives its central messages and takes us on in the marketplace of ideas. Numerous commissions and experts recommend improving the United States’ engagement with foreign audiences beyond traditional government-to-government relations. Unfortunately, U.S. efforts remain insufficient to counter violent extremist narratives around the world. Smith’s Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threat, and Capabilities repeatedly receives testimony that: The U.S. doesn’t have a coherent, high-level interagency strategy on these issues; The State Department and Defense Department aren’t coordinating sufficiently; and We lack focus and nuance in our strategic communication messaging. To address these gaps in our counter-terrorism strategy, Smith and Thornberry offered their good-government amendment through bipartisan cooperation and with support of the Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committee Chairmen. The Senate and the President must approve the defense bill before the Smith Amendment becomes law.
7.9.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today helped pass legislation to expand housing assistance and supportive services for homeless veterans. H.R.3329, the Homes for Heroes Act, which Smith cosponsored, overwhelmingly passed by a vote of 412-19. “It is an absolute shame that after years of faithful service to their country, thousands of veterans spend their nights sleeping on the streets or are under the constant threat of becoming homeless. We must do more to support these individuals who served their country. This bill is a step in the right direction to ensure our veterans receive the support and services they need,” Smith said. According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, more than 400,000 veterans are homeless at some point during the year, with nearly 200,000 homeless on any given night. This makes up a quarter of the entire homeless population of the United States. Many more low income veterans and their families live at the margins and are at risk of becoming homeless in the absence of permanent housing solutions and supportive services. In fact, 1.5 million veterans have incomes that fall below the federal poverty level, including 634,000 with incomes below 50 percent of the poverty line. Specifically, the Homes for Heroes Act: Authorizes $200 million for an assistance program at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for supportive housing and services for low-income veterans. Directs HUD to provide at least 20,000 rental vouchers a year for homeless veterans. Establishes the position of Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within HUD to coordinate and oversee the Department’s assistance programs for veterans. Requires HUD to submit a comprehensive annual report to Congress on the housing needs of homeless veterans and the steps HUD has taken under the programs provided for in this bill. The Senate must now consider H.R. 3329 before the President can sign it into law.
7.9.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement regarding Secretary of Defense Robert Gates’ announcement that the Pentagon will re-open bidding for the acquisition of 179 new Air Force refueling tankers: “The Pentagon made the right decision – and the only reasonable one – to correct the Air Force’s mistakes and re-compete the tanker contract. The GAO’s investigation made clear that the original acquisition process was unfair and disadvantaged Boeing’s bid in several respects. I hope this will mean that Boeing and our Washington State workers will get a fair shot at the new contract, but I’ll be watching this new process carefully to make sure that’s the case.”
7.3.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) applauded the House Appropriations Committee’s approval last week of funding for two critical energy research projects at universities in Washington State. The committee approved $500,000 which Smith requested to expand research capabilities at the Center for Biofuels at the University of Washington to facilitate development of new biomass conversion technologies. The committee also approved $500,000 for research on power grid instability and insecurity and the development of modern “smart grid” technology at Washington State University. “The Center for Biofuels is already completing research that will help Washington This additional funding will allow them to purchase equipment and expand vital research on converting biomass into fuels,” Smith said. state become a leader in alternative energy. “Also of critical importance is ensuring that our regional and national power grids are stable and secure. This funding will help WSU researchers develop smart-grid technology to better protect consumers’ access to the electricity we all rely on,” Smith said. Smith also helped secure funding for the following regional projects: • $250,000 for the Lower Puyallup River Alternatives Study, which would determine alternatives for addressing flood and related habitat issues of the Lower Puyallup River in Pierce County, Wash.; U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. • $300,000 for the Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration to identify and fund important restoration opportunities in the Puget Sound Basin, which can benefit various federally listed species; U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. • $600,000 million for the Puget Sound Nearshore Marine Habitat Restoration program. This funding will be used to evaluate causes for habitat decline and pollution in the Puget Sound Basin; formulate, evaluate and screen potential solutions to these problems; and recommend a series of actions and projects; U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. • $1 million for the Duwamish / Green Ecosystem Restoration Project, which provides critical environmental improvements and includes assisting in the recovery of Endangered Species Act federally-listed Chinook salmon; U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (King County). • $4.107 million for the Mud Mountain Dam on the White River. Funding would be used for both construction and operations and maintenance on the Dam, to enable the Corps of Engineers to meet existing and future fish passage responsibilities; U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The funds were included in the appropriations bill for energy and water projects for fiscal year 2009, approved by the House Appropriations Committee last week. The bill now awaits consideration by the full House and reconciliation with the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
7.3.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) applauded the House Appropriations Committee’s approval last week of the Fiscal Year 2009 Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill, which included funding for several critical law enforcement and justice assistance projects in the 9th District. The committee approved $300,000 for the Digital Information Gathering System (DIGS), requested by the King County Sherriff’s Office. The DIGS project will facilitate integration of records and information between all 49 municipal police departments, sheriffs offices, and other law enforcement agencies and will promote enhanced information sharing, data accessibility, and communications. Also approved by the committee was $250,000 for the Rainier Communications Commission’s Wireless Public Safety and Emergency Response Network. This network will improve interoperable communications for public safety and emergency management purposes and directly aid local law enforcement and first responders in Pierce County. “Funding for the King County DIGS project and the Rainier Public Safety Network will help provide our local law enforcement officials with needed technology support to better respond to public safety threats and emergencies,” Smith said. Smith also helped secure funding for important justice assistance programs that reduce and prevent crime as well as provide support and assistance to victims. The Appropriations Committee designated $500,000 for the Crystal Judson Family Justice Center to fund their heavily-utilized civil legal services and the child-focused Stepping Stones program, both of which serve adult and child victims of violence. The committee approved $1,100,000 for the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative to tackle the problems of manufacture, distribution, and use of methamphetamine. The committee also approved $1,000,000 for the Pierce County Regional Gang Prevention Initiative, which enables enhanced community-oriented policing activities and outreach to youths and families impacted by drugs, violence, and gangs. “These funds will support critical local programs that prevent drug abuse, crime, and violence and aid victims and affected communities.” The CJS bill now awaits consideration by the full House and reconciliation with the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
6.25.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today applauded the House Appropriations Committee’s approval of the $8.6 million he requested to build a new cyber-warfare facility for use by the Washington State Air National Guard’s 262nd Information Warfare Aggressor Squadron (IWAS) at McChord Air Force Base. “This Washington State Air National Guard squadron is at the cutting edge of protecting U.S. national security in today’s high-tech world. I am proud to have these cyber warriors - most of whom have civilian day jobs at local tech companies - here in the Puget Sound area. They need this new facility as the squadron takes on a more prominent role in America’s cyber-security efforts,” Smith said. The work of the 262nd IWAS involves a range of cyber-security missions, including replicating the cyber-attack capabilities of potential adversaries to the U.S. The $8.6 million that Smith secured will fund the construction of a state-of-the-art training and operational facility for the 262nd IWAS at McChord Air Force Base. The facility will house classrooms and multiple, highly secured computer networks, and a Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF) for the storage of Top Secret information. The current facility is a Korean War-era building without adequate space or security protections. The funds were included in the appropriations bill for military construction and veterans affairs, approved by the House Appropriations Committee yesterday. The bill will be considered by the full House of Representatives next month.
6.20.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement regarding the fiscal year 2008 supplemental appropriations bill, which the U.S. House of Representatives approved last night through votes on two amendments. Smith voted "no" on both. The first amendment provided more than $160 billion in funds for ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and lacked adequate restraints on President Bush's Iraq policy. The second amendment provided funding for other needs such as disaster assistance, foreign aid, expanded veterans benefits and extended unemployment benefits. Neither amendment offset the costs of these policies, simply adding to the debt instead. "The President's Iraq policies have to change. We absolutely must confront the rising tide of violence in Afghanistan. This past week saw a dramatic Taliban attack on a prison that freed roughly ‘750 criminals and 400 Taliban inmates.' We also saw Taliban fighters sweep in and briefly capture ten villages, some of which we have since recaptured. Al-Qaida continues to threaten our nation from this region as well. Our commanders tell me we are two combat brigades short of what we need to confront this continuing violence, but we cannot supply them because we have around 150,000 troops in Iraq. Even in light of the severe challenges in Afghanistan, President Bush insists on a no-end-in-sight occupation of Iraq that continues our massive presence there indefinitely. The funding measure before the House lacked any real constraints on the President's shortsighted, obsessive focus on Iraq, so I could not support it. I also believe we should come up with some way of offsetting the costs of the President's policy instead of simply adding to our debt. "I was pleased to see the inclusion of expanded unemployment insurance and educational benefits for our veterans and their families. I strongly support the expansion of the GI bill for veterans, in particular, and have voted in favor of similar legislation in the past. However, the previous version paid for the multi-billion-dollar cost by asking for shared sacrifice in the form of a tax surcharge on the richest Americans. That kind of fiscal responsibility is totally absent from this legislation. As passed, the two pieces of the supplemental will add more than $200 billion to our debt in the next ten years. "We have two ongoing wars and a huge fiscal challenge facing our country, including a $9 trillion debt and massive annual deficits. I do not support cutting off funds for our troops while in combat, and I support responsible measures to shore up American workers and to expand GI benefits. This legislation, however, lacks real restraints on a dangerously misguided Iraq policy while digging our nation deeper into debt. We have months before the Defense Department would begin to run out of funds, and we will not solve problems for our workers and veterans by driving up our nation's red ink. Congress has time to craft a responsible solution for these problems, but this legislation isn't it."
6.20.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted for the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, a bipartisan compromise bill that provides intelligence agencies tools to conduct surveillance while protecting Americans' privacy rights. "We can and must fight terrorism without sacrificing our most basic freedoms as Americans. While not perfect, this compromise is a major improvement over both the Senate-passed bill and current law. It gives intelligence agencies needed tools to conduct surveillance on foreign targets while protecting Americans' constitutional rights through judicial oversight and ensuring the President can never again go outside the law," Smith said. The compromise bill contains a number of critical safeguards to protect civil liberties and prevent executive overreach. The bill: Ensures the President can never again go outside the law, by clarifying that the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) and existing criminal statues are the exclusive means by which the government may conduct surveillance on U.S. soil. The President justified his extralegal surveillance program by claiming the 2001 authorization to use force against terrorists provided the administration the authority to circumvent FISA. This bill makes it clear that's not the case. Clarifies that to conduct surveillance of a person in the U.S., or any U.S. citizen abroad, the government must first obtain an individual warrant from the FISA court based on probable cause. Requires prior review and approval by the FISA Court of the targeting and minimization procedures used in foreign surveillance to ensure that U.S. citizens are not targeted and that any inadvertently intercepted communications are not disseminated. Requires the Inspectors General of four key U.S. government agencies to conduct a review of the President's warrantless wiretapping program and provide those reviews to Congress. The debate over surveillance laws emerged after September 11, 2001 as the need to conduct counterterrorism surveillance suggested that the 1978 FISA law needed to be modernized. While surveillance of foreign targets had always been legal without a warrant, the question became what to do when information about Americans was inadvertently collected in the process of seeking information on targets abroad – a growing problem since an increasing amount of global electronic communication was being routed through U.S. locations. FISA required that any time that might happen; a separate individual warrant was required in advance. U.S. intelligence agencies complained that the 1978 law hampered their ability to conduct effective counterterrorism surveillance on foreign targets. With that challenge in mind, in addition to safeguarding civil liberties, this compromise bill provides critical authority and flexibility for U.S. intelligence agencies to acquire foreign intelligence information. In an emergency, the government may authorize surveillance and apply to the FISA Court for approval within seven days. The bill also rejects the Senate bill's provisions granting automatic retroactive immunity for telecommunications providers. Instead the bill requires federal courts to determine companies' liability, and allows them to grant immunity only if shown substantial evidence that the U.S. government ordered companies to comply. All parties will be allowed to participate in the legal proceedings, with caveats to protect access to highly classified information. "This bill's approach on telecommunications company liability isn't perfect, but it's a vast improvement over the Senate bill in that it keeps the decision in the federal courts' hands. What's most important is that government officials can still be held accountable, as the bill provides no immunity to them and requires aggressive investigations into the President's warrantless wiretap program," Smith said.
6.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement after the Government Accountability Office (GAO) ruled on Boeing’s protest of the Air Force’s aerial refueling tanker contract process: “The GAO’s decision is an unequivocal vindication of our position regarding the bidding process for the Air Force’s refueling tanker contract. The process was not fair and did not provide equal consideration for both companies’ products based on the Air Force’s solicitation. GAO recommends what amounts to a complete reopening of the bidding process which could result in the termination of the contract awarded to Northrop Grumman. In addition to ensuring that American workers get a fair shot at the contract, I hope this decision will also cause our government to reevaluate the wisdom of awarding major contracts to companies that have benefited from illegal government subsidies.”
6.12.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) yesterday offered an amendment to H.R. 6003, the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 to encourage collaboration between Amtrak and local and regional commuter rail agencies on train schedules and routing in shared rail corridors. The U.S. House of Representatives approved H.R. 6003 by a vote of 311 to 104 after voting to include Smith’s amendment. Local commuter rail transit agencies often share rails with Amtrack, and several agencies across the nation have made substantial investments in tracks and signal capacity in shared rail corridors to enhance commuter rail service. However, Amtrak’s first right to schedule their service often causes delays to commuter rail passengers and undermines the on-time performance of commuter rail systems. High gas prices increase demand for passenger commuter rails, so efficient and effective use of rail infrastructure is critical. “Amtrak should work in collaboration with commuter rail carriers to facilitate the most efficient flow of intercity Amtrak and commuter rail passengers. In the Puget Sound region, Sound Transit worked with BNSF and invested substantial sums of public funds in the rail corridor between Tacoma and Everett. Investments like these all around the country benefit freight rail, Amtrak and commuter rail passengers. Amtrak should respect these investments and work with our local commuter rail agencies to help maximize commuter rail service so commuters and taxpayers can see improved returns on our public investment,” Smith said. Smith’s amendment does not replace or affect the existing process for adding additional passenger service on freight rail networks, but rather simply requires Amtrak to engage in good-faith discussions on scheduling with commuter rail agencies to ensure that passenger movement is maximized and a balance is struck between Amtrak’s intercity rail service and commuter rail service. H.R. 6003 must be approved by the Senate before the President can sign it into law.
6.5.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement regarding the Democratic budget plan for fiscal year 2009 passed by the House of Representatives this afternoon: “I am proud to announce that the 110th Congress passed a budget plan for the second year in a row, establishing a pattern that differs sharply from past Congresses. Budget resolutions are fundamental pieces of any larger attempt to reign in our budget process. The framework we have established in this report gives us a chance to return to fiscal responsibility, a trait sadly lacking from federal budgets for some time now. “Our national debt and deficit have not received sufficient attention in our national dialogue, and we absolutely must get both of these factors under control so we can address long-term economic priorities including a more affordable health care system, a better education and skills training policy, greater innovation investment and infrastructure improvements. Addressing these challenges will be essential to our future prosperity. However, I do not believe this process will be successful unless we get back to a fiscally responsible budget process. “The budget conference report is a good first step in returning to a path of fiscal discipline.”
5.22.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted to improve our nation’s military readiness, support military families, recommit to our efforts in Afghanistan and protect our nation from terrorism and unconventional threats. He supported H.R. 5658, the fiscal year 2009 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which authorizes $601.4 billion to support our national defense, including $70 billion for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Smith helped shape the legislation via his chairmanship of the House Armed Services terrorism subcommittee and an amendment he offered on the floor of the House of Representatives. The bill passed by a vote of 384 to 23. “This year's National Defense Authorization Act is a good product, especially considering its language and funding to restore readiness and support military families. Our forces are under a great deal of strain because of their deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan, so we provided almost $2 billion above the President’s request to fill readiness gaps. The bill also prioritizes our troops by giving them a 3.9 percent pay raise to recognize their hard work and sacrifice and support them in every way we possibly can,” Smith said. Recommitting to Afghanistan Our efforts in Afghanistan continue to suffer due to a disproportionate focus on Iraq. The NDAA attempts to rectify this imbalance in a region of the world critical to our fight against al-Qaida and their allies. The bill: Requires the Administration to de-link its future budget requests for Afghanistan from those for Iraq to enhance transparency and congressional oversight. Requires detailed reports on the training of the Afghan National Security Forces - the cornerstone of our counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan. “Our national security interests would be best served by a responsible redeployment from Iraq and a greater emphasis on our Afghanistan commitment. Recently I introduced a resolution calling for such redeployment and a better balance in our defense policy. I am pleased the NDAA this year will help Congress oversee and prioritize our efforts in Afghanistan,” Smith said. Protecting Our Nation from Terrorism and Unconventional Threats The Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee’s (HASC) portion of the NDAA fully resources and enhances the Defense Department’s ability to combat terrorism, fight smarter in the realm of irregular warfare, and counter other unconventional threats to our nation’s security. Smith chairs the terrorism panel. The bill: Supports expansion of our special operations forces (SOF) – the “tip of the spear” in our fight against terrorism and extremism – and provides needed equipment and support. The legislation includes $185 million above the President’s request to fund eight top priorities of U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM), including advanced aircraft survivability systems, advanced sniper scopes and body armor vests. Prioritizes “irregular warfare,” including counterinsurgency, stability operations, and strategic communications. The NDAA requires an Assistant Secretary of Defense be tasked to manage irregular warfare to ensure needed support and attention from the Pentagon. The bill includes a $90 million increase for embedded cultural advisors in Iraq and Afghanistan and requires the creation of a management board to enhance coordination of the Defense Department’s (DoD) counter-terrorism strategic communication efforts. Enhances DoD’s use of technology and includes language and funding to help protect the United States from unconventional attacks. The NDAA funds needed science and technology (S&T) research, streamlines our acquisition process for commercial information technology (IT) for the military, and mandates greater coordination and collaboration between DoD and the VA. The bill adds funds for the Chemical-Biological Defense Program, the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, and other homeland defense initiatives. The NDAA also clarifies the President’s authority to use the Reserves during national emergencies. These provisions ensure our military remains up-to-date and ready to prevent and respond to major attacks on the homeland. The bill must be approved by the Senate before the President can sign it into law.
5.22.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today won approval for his amendment to the fiscal year 2009 National Defense Authorization Act to enhance U.S. efforts to combat the spread of violent terrorist ideology. The Smith Amendment would address major gaps in our counter-terrorism strategy by requiring the President to develop a comprehensive interagency strategy for strategic communication and public diplomacy. The House of Representatives approved the amendment during consideration of H.R. 5658, which passed by a vote of 384 to 23. “Strategic communication and public diplomacy were central to our fight against communism in the Cold War, and they should remain front-and-center as we work to roll back al-Qaeda’s and other violent extremists’ influence among disaffected populations. Various organizations within our government work in some way to counter terrorist messages, but we lack a coordinated, comprehensive, adequately resourced plan to confront al-Qaeda’s ideology through a strategic message campaign,” Smith said. The Smith Amendment: Requires the President to develop a comprehensive interagency strategy for strategic communication and public diplomacy by the end of 2009; Increases Congressional oversight by requiring the Administration to report to Congress on the State and Defense Departments’ respective roles in strategic communication and public diplomacy; and Requires the Administration to assess and report back to Congress on the Defense Science Board’s recommendation that the U.S. establish an independent, non-profit organization to support the U.S. government’s strategic communication efforts. Our nation’s multifaceted fight against al-Qaida and their allies includes efforts to counter their ideology – a war of ideas. Terrorist groups aggressively push their narrative through new and traditional media with the aim of radicalizing and recruiting from new populations. Through clever use of the Internet and a steady trickle of video messages distributed to and through the media, al-Qaeda drives its central messages and takes us on in the marketplace of ideas. Numerous commissions and experts recommend improving the United States’ engagement with foreign audiences beyond traditional government-to-government relations. Unfortunately, U.S. efforts remain insufficient to counter violent extremist narratives around the world. Smith’s Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threat, and Capabilities repeatedly receives testimony that: The U.S. doesn’t have a coherent, high-level interagency strategy on these issues; The State Department and Defense Department aren’t coordinating sufficiently; and We lack focus and nuance in our strategic communication messaging. To address these gaps in our counter-terrorism strategy, Smith offered his good-government amendment through bipartisan cooperation and with support of the Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committee Chairmen. The Senate and the President must approve H.R. 5658 before the Smith Amendment becomes law.
5.15.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today released the following statement regarding his vote against H.R. 2419, the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, commonly referred to as the Farm Bill: “The bill passed today by the House of Representatives contained many positive provisions, including several that would benefit Washington state. Unfortunately, the core of the bill retained its wasteful, trade-distorting subsidies and represents a missed opportunity for real agricultural and trade policy reform. “This year’s Farm Bill did contain provisions which I could have supported on their own, including an additional $10.4 billion for nutrition programs to help Americans afford healthy food. The bill also contained funds to mitigate massive salmon season closures in our state, along with tax relief for timber producers. This year’s Farm Bill also included welcome assistance for fruit, vegetable and specialty crops, along with research to aid global competitiveness of our Washington state farmers. Any of these provisions would have been policies I could support had the overall bill not been so fundamentally flawed. “The fact is that our agriculture policy contains wasteful, market-distorting subsidies that insult taxpayers and hamper our nation’s economic growth prospects by undermining our trade policies. Our farm programs and those of other developed countries have been a central factor in blocking a breakthrough in global trade negotiations at the World Trade Organization (WTO). This stalemate over agriculture policy is preventing the conclusion of an agreement that could bring hundreds of billions of dollars of growth to the global economy, with major benefits for American manufactures, workers, farmers, and consumers alike. Few would benefit more from such a deal than residents of Washington State, where one in three jobs is linked to global trade. But this five-year bill misses that key opportunity by reauthorizing billions of dollars in market-distorting subsidies, effectively tying the next President’s hands in global trade negotiations. We can’t afford to take that step backwards. “Aside from the trade concerns, the subsidy programs in the Farm Bill waste taxpayer dollars on too many well-off farmers that don’t need the help. The bill provides for subsidies to be paid to farming households with a combined income of up to $2.5 million dollars. The authors of the bill missed an opportunity to move ahead with real reform, instead opting for a mere 0.6 percent cut to the most wasteful type of subsidies. This is not real reform. “This bill contained many peripheral provisions that could have been of benefit to American families and to Washington state in particular. It is unfortunate, however, that the core of the bill remains so fundamentally flawed.”
5.15.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement regarding his votes today on the Iraq and Afghanistan war supplemental funding bill. “The bill we voted on in the House today included a timeline, a plan and funds for a responsible redeployment of our troops from Iraq. I voted for the overall package because I remain supportive of a responsible redeployment policy that supports our troops. Unfortunately, we were not able to get the votes for the full redeployment package, in large part due to more than 100 House Republicans who refused to vote in favor of funds for troops in harm’s way. “I strongly support a change in our nation’s Iraq policy. I have never supported an abrupt cutoff of funds that would lead to a precipitous, irresponsible withdrawal, and I have voted against previous war funding bills that lacked real policy changes in Iraq. I was encouraged that this legislation contained all the elements needed to properly draw down our commitment in Iraq, and I hope the next administration promptly begins a responsible redeployment to better serve our national security interests.”
5.2.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.) today introduced legislation to address national Medicare reimbursement disparities that hurt Washington state. The legislation, which Murray and Smith first introduced in 2002, raises Washington state’s Medicare reimbursement rates to the national average and ensures that all states receive at least the national average of per-patient spending. The MediFair Act ensures that Washington state’s seniors are on par with seniors around the country and stops punishing the state’s health care system for providing efficient, quality care. “Washington state’s Medicare program is one of the most efficient in the country. The federal program punishes our lack of waste and low utilization through very low reimbursement rates for our seniors and health care system. We should reward good government, not punish it, and the MediFair Act is a good step in that direction,” Smith said. "Washington state seniors have spent their lives working hard, raising their families, and paying into the Medicare system. But when they retire, they find that their access to health care depends upon where they happen to live," Senator Murray said. "The MediFair Act is a starting point for eliminating the regional inequities in Medicare. Our bill ensures that seniors are not penalized when they choose to retire and that doctors aren't forced to choose between staying in business or taking Medicare patients." The MediFair Act will ensure Washington’s seniors and health care system get fair treatment from the federal Medicare program and reward efficiency instead of punishing it. The bill increases reimbursement rates for Washington state to the national average and directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to require other states be more efficient. The federal Medicare and Medicare Advantage systems cover health care for senior citizens by reimbursing doctors, hospitals, home health care, nursing homes and HMOs. Washington state worked hard to create an efficient Medicare system. Instead of rewarding Washington state’s responsible administration of their program, the federal government’s payment formula repays our state with one of the lowest reimbursement rates in the country. In 2003, for example, per capita spending under traditional Medicare was $5,661 for beneficiaries in Seattle, $9,752 for those in Los Angeles, and $11,340 for those in Miami. Continuing cuts to the Medicare program hit our state particularly hard and cause Medicare providers and insurance companies to seriously consider not participating in the Washington state Medicare program. We need to protect choice for our seniors and ensure they can find a Medicare provider when they seek medical care. Smith and Murray introduced the MediFair Act in their respective chambers of Congress on Thursday. U.S. Reps. Brian Baird (D-Wash.), Norm Dicks (D-Wash.), Jay Inslee (D-Wash.), Rick Larsen (D-Wash.) and Jim McDermott (D-Wash.) cosponsored the bill. The House and the Senate must approve their versions of the legislation before the President can sign it into law. Smith and Murray introduced similar legislation in 2005.
4.30.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) returned late yesterday from leading a five-day congressional delegation (CODEL) trip to the United Kingdom, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. U.S. Reps. Mac Thornberry (D-Texas), Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.), Bill Shuster (R-Penn.) and Mike Conaway (D-Texas) joined him on the trip. Smith led the CODEL as chairman of the House Armed Services Committee’s terrorism panel. “Our troops and foreign service officers work hard around the world to serve American interests and to fight the spread of terrorist networks and their ideology, especially in Afghanistan and Pakistan. This trip reinforced my conviction that this region of the world is the central front in our war against al-Qaida and we have under-resourced it because of other priorities. This must change,” Smith said. Smith organized the CODEL to provide House Armed Services Committee members with information regarding our special operations forces and their work to roll back al-Qaida and related groups in key theaters around the world. Smith organized a counter-terrorism-related CODEL to the Pacific region earlier this year. These trips provide Members of Congress with invaluable direct contact with in-country U.S. and allied personnel who can provide first-hand explanations of their needs and challenges. The CODEL’s itinerary included stops in: The United Kingdom. The Members of Congress met with the U.S. Ambassador to the United Kingdom Robert H. Tuttle, the U.S. Country Team, and United Kingdom counter-terrorism officials and military personnel. Afghanistan. Smith’s delegation met with U.S. Ambassador William B. Wood and members of the U.S. Country Team. The delegation also met with General Dan K. McNeill, Commander of the International Security Assistance Force, and Abdul Raheem Wardak, the Minister of Defense for Afghanistan. Other meetings also occurred with local business leaders, members of the U.S. special operations forces community, constituents serving in the region, as well as Canadian military officials stationed in Kandahar to discuss the activities of the local Provincial Reconstruction Team. Pakistan. The CODEL met with U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan Anne W. Patterson and members of the U.S. Country Team. The CODEL also met with President Pervez Musharraf, Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani, and Lieutenant General Nadeem Taj, Director of the Inter-Services Intelligence, Pakistan’s premier intelligence agency. “This trip gave our delegation insight into the challenges faced by U.S. personnel in theaters beyond Iraq that are essential to our national security. I intend to put the lessons learned to use as the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee crafts our portion of the National Defense Authorization Act in the coming weeks,” Smith said.
4.24.2008	Reps. Adam Smith (WA-09) and Brian Baird (WA-03) today co-chaired a joint subcommittee hearing between the House Science Committee and House Armed Services Committee to examine the role social and behavioral sciences can play in meeting our national security needs. Rep. Smith, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities, and Rep. Baird, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, led the effort to explore opportunities for collaboration between the Department of Defense (DoD) and the National Science Foundation (NSF) in utilizing this scientific research to help soldiers serving in new combat situations in Iraq and Afghanistan. “The fight to stop the spread of terrorism is in large part a struggle to understand and work with local populations. Our special operations forces and other military and civilian personnel work in dozens of countries and across many different cultures, and understanding the particulars of each is of enormous importance if we are to deny al-Qaida and other groups safe haven. These interactions are a big component of American ‘soft power,’ and the more skilled and informed we become in this context, the better we will be able to root out insurgencies and terrorists. Today’s hearing was an opportunity for our subcommittees to learn more about the role social and behavioral sciences can play in our national security,” Smith said. “Our country has invested billions of dollars in mapping the physical terrain of combat zones based on the recognition that it would be foolhardy to send our soldiers into unknown terrain because it would endanger our soldiers and their mission,” said Chairman Baird. “What I find so encouraging and interesting about today’s hearing is the recognition that human terrain, which we may not be able to map by satellite or GPS, is just as important to the success of our mission, the survival of our soldiers, and the people were trying to protect.” During the joint hearing, members explored how NSF research in the social and behavioral sciences can help the nation achieve its national security goals, including empowering soldiers or combat units to adapt and maneuver in foreign cultures and stressful situations. The Subcommittees also examined what new tools, technologies and training programs researchers can use to help soldiers adapt to the current irregular warfare environment in Iraq and Afghanistan. Subcommittee Members heard testimony from the following witnesses: Dr. André van Tilborg, Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Science and Technology, Department of Defense; Colonel Martin Schweitzer, Commander 4th Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division; Dr. Mark Weiss, Division Director for Behavioral and Cognitive Sciences & Directorate for Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences, National Science Foundation; Dr. David Segal, Professor of Sociology and Director of the Center for Research on Military Organization, University of Maryland. Today’s military witness, Col. Schweitzer, highlighted an example of the practical application of this research in an operational setting. Col. Schweitzer recently returned from Afghanistan, where he worked with a Human Terrain Team (HTT), which places civilian and uniformed scientists on the ground in order to provide soldiers with better knowledge of the culture in which they are operate. For more information on this hearing or to access witness testimony, visit the Committee’s website: http://armedservices.house.gov/hearing_information.shtml.
4.23.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement regarding H.R. 5613, the Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 349 - 62. Smith voted for the bill. “The President’s proposed Medicaid regulations would have forced deep cuts to federal Medicaid funding to Washington state. Those regulations would have put in jeopardy important support for millions of beneficiaries nationwide by slashing $18 billion in funding to states for essential Medicaid programs and services. The bill we passed tonight will prevent – at least temporarily – cuts that would particularly affect children, the elderly, and people with disabilities who rely on Medicaid,” Smith said.
4.16.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted in favor of H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation Act. The bill will build on past success in relieving 30 poor countries of roughly $80 billion dollars of debt since 1996. Debt relief for the world’s poorest countries is one of the most important ways we can help the developing world and reduce extreme poverty in the areas of most dire need. The bill passed by a vote of 285 – 132. “Rising food prices highlight how essential it is for our country to take a lead in the fight against extreme poverty around the world. Debt relief programs are some of our most effective measures to aid poor nations in getting back on their feet. While faced with stifling debt payments, it is nearly impossible for heavily indebted countries to make progress on HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment, general health care, education, and poverty reduction. This bill directs the Administration to seek an agreement with the World Bank, IMF and the Paris Club to expand debt relief to up to 24 additional impoverished countries,” Smith said. H.R. 2634 would require countries meet certain criteria before qualifying for debt relief, which relate to: * human rights, * public financial management, * budget transparency, and * open and fair elections. The bill requires savings from debt relief to be used toward a wide variety poverty reduction activities. For example, Uganda used its $57.9 million in savings from debt relief in 2006 to invest in energy and water infrastructure, primary education, malaria control, and health care. Smith is a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and is the sponsor of H.R. 1302, the Global Poverty Act, which would require the Administration craft a comprehensive strategy to reduce global poverty. The Senate must now consider H.R. 2634 before the President can sign it into law.
3.11.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today pushed the top Defense Department acquisition official to provide more information related to the recent tanker decision involving Northrup Grumman / EADS and Boeing. Smith questioned Under Secretary for Defense for Acquisition John J. Young, Jr. during a joint hearing of the House Armed Services Committee Air & Land Forces and Sea Power & Expeditionary Forces Subcommittees. “This decision raises a number of serious issues, from procurement process concerns to trade and economic implications. The key point that came out during my exchange with Under Secretary Young was that the Air Force did not take into account the illegal government subsidies provided to Airbus by European governments – the very subsidies that our government is currently suing the European Union over. As our own government has argued, subsidies like these allow companies unfair advantages against U.S. competitors and are illegal under international trade rules. The Air Force procurement officials, however, did not take that critical factor into consideration meaning that as a question of policy it is up to Congress to take a closer look. Watch for Congress to do so in the coming days,” Smith said. Partial Transcript Smith: Did you consider the subsidy issue? Because one of the things we are really wrestling with here is that we are starting a WTO case against Airbus for unfairly subsidizing its competition against U.S. products. It’s obvious the case is still in development but for years it hasn’t been terribly debated that Airbus is subsidized. At a minimum they have a bank out there that they can take risk against that they know will cover them, which is no small item. So … how do we balance as a government that we have on the one hand complaining about a subsidized competitor and then on the other hand giving that subsidized competitor a contract when arguably part of the reason they are able to keep their costs down is because they are being unfairly subsidized? Young: Again, the laws and regulations really don’t let me address in any way the subsidy issue that will be settled in another forum on a nation-to-nation and on an international forum. What we evaluated was the products that were proposed. I did have a discussion with the Air Force to try to make sure, and I would do this in any process; it’s not just this particular program. We don’t want an industry to buy in to a program because usually that comes back to haunt us in terms of increasing costs and other factors. My understanding is that the Air Force assessed both team’s proposals; both team’s proposals present accurate assessments of their costs, and both teams proposals, I will tell you, include profits for both makers. So we believe they both proposed their costs plus profits, we evaluated those performance and those costs benefits to the government. Smith: So just so I can clarify: your decision therefore was based in no way on the subsidy issue, whether they were subsidized or not. So in essence what you are saying is, if that is an issue of public policy, it would be an issue of public policy that Congress will have to address. It was not addressed in your original decision…if that was an issue that was important to the country it would be something that Congress would have to deal with.
2.29.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith today released the following statement regarding the U.S. Air Force’s decision to award a long-anticipated contract to build aerial refueling tankers to Northrop Grumman/EADS rather than Boeing: “I am very disappointed in the Air Force’s decision on the tanker contract. While I am sure that the Air Force’s process was fair and open, I look forward to reading in detail their justification, as the Defense Department had previously identified Boeing tankers as highly-rated, cost-effective updates to the force. Our regional producer had a very competitive bid, and I am disappointed that the Air Force did not select our home-grown, innovative solution to their needs.”
2.13.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith congratulated CWO2 (Ret.) Christopher Navarre, Sr., on his distinguished service in the U.S. Army and on approval of his much-delayed Army Commendation Medal. Navarre had previously discovered an unprocessed write-up for the Army Commendation Medal / Citation for his service in Korea. He brought the write-up to Smith’s office, and Smith was able to drive the award process to a successful conclusion. Smith presented Navarre with the award on January 24, 2008. “Mr. Navarre is a fantastic example of distinguished military service to our country and I was honored to have helped him obtain these important awards. A veteran of five World War II battles and three Korean War engagements, he put his life on the line for his country, and we are very grateful,” Smith said. Navarre is a distinguished veteran of World War II and Korea. His awards include: The Silver Star The Purple Heart The Presidential Unit Citation The Chevalier of the French Legion of Honor Military Order of World Wars, Patrick Henry Silver Medallion 14 additional medals and citations Smith was joined at the ceremony by Colonel Anthony Cruz, commander of the 6th Military Police Group (CID). The 6th Military Police Group (CID) is the community connector unit for the city of DuPont, working to increase interaction and understanding between the U.S. military and its local communities. After comments by Smith and Cruz, Cruz requested the orders be published. This allowed Smith to finally present Navarre with the commendation. The master of ceremonies at Navarre’s award presentation, Master Sergeant Teddy Compton, called him “a priceless asset to the United States Army and his country.” Cruz, Navarre, and Smith at the award presentation ceremony.
2.13.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith today announced that the Senate Foreign Relations Committee approved his Global Poverty Act, paving the way for its consideration by the full Senate. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Joseph Biden and Ranking Member Richard Lugar signed on as cosponsors, joining original Senate sponsors Senators Barack Obama, Chuck Hagel, and Maria Cantwell. “Global poverty is one of the greatest moral and security challenges facing the world today. Nearly 2.7 billion people live on less than $2 a day and close to a billion live on less than $1 a day. This bill represents a major advance in our effort to address global poverty. After introducing this measure in the House for the past several years, I am pleased to see the Senate Foreign Relations Committee take significant steps toward its final passage,” Smith said. The Global Poverty Act: Declares it official U.S. policy to promote the reduction of global poverty, the elimination of extreme global poverty, and the achievement of the U.N. Millennium Development Goal of cutting extreme global poverty in half by 2015. Requires the President to develop and implement a comprehensive strategy to carry out that policy. Includes guidelines for what the strategy should include - from aid, trade, and debt relief, to working with the international community, businesses and NGOs, to ensuring environmental sustainability. Requires that the President’s strategy include specific and measurable goals, efforts to be undertaken, benchmarks, and timetables. Requires the President to report back to Congress on progress made in the implementation of the global poverty strategy. Smith, along with U.S. Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), introduced the Global Poverty Act of 2007 in the House of Representatives on March 1, 2007. The bill passed easily in the House by an overwhelming bipartisan vote on September 25, 2007. The bill was introduced in the Senate on December 10, 2007. Today the Senate Foreign Relations Committee approved the bill, clearing the way for its consideration by the full Senate. Video of Smith’s September 25, 2007 speech in favor of the Global Poverty Act can be found at http://www.house.gov/list/press/wa09_smith/morenews/globalpovertypass.html. Smith first introduced the Global Poverty Act in 2005.
1.30.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today released the following statement following his ‘no’ vote on the stimulus package passed by the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday: “While it is easy to understand the appeal of Congress and the President passing out over $150 Billion to the American people, our economy needs more than another short-term, quick fix approach that could come at the expense of more important long-term, structural, public policy changes. “A stimulus to head off a recession can be a good idea, but economists are split on whether or not now is one of those times, and even if it is, the stimulus must be properly targeted to get the money in the hands of people who will spend it immediately. Unfortunately, the House did not include the two quickest and best-targeted levers for stimulus: extended unemployment benefits and temporary food stamp increases. “I am also concerned with the possibility that this legislation will become loaded with extraneous provisions in the Senate that do not have an immediate stimulus effect. “The $150 billion price tag of this legislation will just add to our current fiscal problems, including our mountainous $9 trillion debt and the impending retirement of our nation’s baby boomers. Time and again, we’ve used a philosophy similar to the one pushing this stimulus package—spending money now will help us now, so let’s do it and not worry about the future. “Instead, to compete in new global market place, we must make several long term changes, including a more affordable health care system; a far better and more adaptable education and skills training policy; greater investment in innovation; a better trade policy that recognizes the importance of worker’s rights and environmental protections; and significant improvements to the infrastructure of our country—roads, bridges, energy sources, and access to broadband to name just a few. “The federal government must also be fiscally sound and have the money necessary to make these long term changes. That means we need to confront the ballooning costs of entitlement programs, get a tax code that people can understand, reduce health care inflation, and eventually come up with a foreign policy that gets us out of our current situation where we have to have a defense budget roughly equal to that of every other country in the world combined. “None of this gets any easier if we dig our financial hole another $150 billion deeper for a short-term “fix” for our economic woes that is not well-targeted or well-timed.”
1.28.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today released the following statement in response to President Bush’s State of the Union address. Smith chairs the terrorism subcommittee on the House Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “The President outlined challenges facing our country – the threat of terrorism, health care costs, educating our workforce, decaying infrastructure – but failed to back policies to move us forward. Al-Qaida remains a growing threat in Afghanistan, Pakistan and many other countries around the world, but the bulk of our troops and resources remain bogged down in Iraq. And, the structural problems in our economy need more than just a quick fix. In the final year of this administration, the President should work with Congress in a bipartisan way to find solutions for these and other problems Americans face.”
1.17.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today hailed the President’s release of $3.7 billion in additional veterans funding provided by Congress. These funds, combined with others approved last year, total a $6.7 billion increase in 2008, the largest single funding increase in the 77-year history of the Veterans Affairs Department (VA). “Last year we learned that returning Iraq and Afghanistan veterans faced a care crisis at home, and Congress responded with this funding increase and our Wounded Warrior Act reforms. The 110th Congress took major, concrete steps in our first session to honor our promises to our veterans,” Smith said. Today’s funds, when taken together with other funds provided over the last year by the 110th Congress, add up to $6.7 billion. These funds will: Strengthen health care for 5.8 million patients, including about 263,000 Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, in the fifth year of the war in Iraq; Invest in maintenance for VA health care facilities and treatment for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury for returning veterans; Reduce the backlog of veterans (400,000 claims) waiting for their earned benefits by adding 1,800 claims processors; and Build on other steps by this Congress in 2007: increasing veterans’ health care and benefits by $5.2 billion for improved care and shorter wait times. Most veterans receiving VA health care are struggling to get into the middle class, with a median annual income of $23,000. This increase won widespread support and praise from America’s leading veterans’ organizations including: The American Legion Veterans of Foreign Wars Military Officers Association of America Paralyzed Veterans of America AmVets Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America National Association for Uniformed Services Disabled American Veterans According to the VA, 617,723 lived in Washington state as of 2006.
1.15.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09.) voted with a bipartisan majority in favor of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act. The bill renews and improves SCHIP, providing health care coverage for 11 million children – preserving coverage for the 7 million children currently covered by SCHIP and extends it to 4 million uninsured children who are currently eligible for, but not enrolled in, SCHIP and Medicaid. “The reauthorization of SCHIP is a major victory for children in Washington state and across the country,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “The renewal provides millions of children with one of their most fundamental needs – quality healthcare.” SCHIP was created in 1997 to help families get medical care when they made too much money to get Medicaid but not enough to buy private insurance. The bill passed by the House today will provide states resources needed for outreach to enroll eligible families in the program. Congressman Smith was particularly pleased to see significant gains for Washington state in today’s bill. The legislation allows Washington state to use a larger portion of its federal allocation, above the 20% previously allowed, for SCHIP through FY 2013. When SCHIP was first implemented, Washington state already covered SCHIP-eligible children under our state’s Medicaid program. Because of this it is considered a ‘qualifying’ state and has not been allowed to transfer kids from Medicaid to SCHIP or use the full federal allotment for SCHIP on the Medicaid kids. Further, the bill will provide matching funds to assist with the state’s planned expansion to cover kids up to 300% of the federal poverty line. The bill also includes a provision – another benefit to Washington state -- that would give states the option of covering legal immigrant children who have been less than five years under SCHIP and Medicaid. It covers children – legally here – sooner than a five-year waiting period, in order to prevent critical health problems from going unchecked. Washington is one of 22 states that uses state funds to cover this population and current federal law prohibits them from being eligible for SCHIP in their first 5 years of residency. “The renewal of SCHIP is a win for our country and a win for Washington state,” said Smith. “With unemployment rising, causing many to lose healthcare for their children and their families, this reauthorization is exceptionally important.”
1.15.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) led senior congressional staff to visit U.S. Pacific Command, Special Operations Forces and the U.S. State Department in Hawaii, the Philippines and Malaysia. The trip provided a better sense of SOCOM's work to prevent terrorism and reinforced relations with partner governments. Smith visited Iraq and Afghanistan earlier this year; this trip helped provide a picture of SOCOM's work in other countries facing serious threats from infiltration by radical extremist groups affiliated with al-Qaida. "During our trip, we were able to learn more about SOCOM's excellent work in Southeast Asia and get a better sense of the global challenge we face from the spread of a violent, totalitarian ideology. One thing is clear following this trip: the next president faces an enormous challenge in rebalancing our worldwide force distribution to adequately fight terrorism in nations other than Iraq," Smith said. In Hawaii, Smith's group met with United States Pacific Command (USPACOM) officers and enlisted troops, in addition to meeting U.S. Navy SEALs. In Malaysia, the delegation met with U.S. Ambassador Keith and his staff, Malaysia's NSC Secretary Dato' Muhammad Hatta, Internal Security Ministry Deputy Secretary General Ahmad Fuad and with Defense Intelligence Director General LTG Salleh. In the Philippines, Congressman Smith conducted informational meetings with Ambassador Kenney, her staff and U.S. Special Operations Forces in the Southern Philippines. During the visit the congressman meet with Republic of the Philippines President Arroyo, Secretary of National Defense Gilberto Teodoro and Armed Forces of the Philippines Vice Chief of Staff LTG Romero. Additionally the congressman and his delegation laid a wreath in dedication to the American and Filipino soldiers buried at the Manila American Cemetery and Memorial. Visit http://www.house.gov/adamsmith/photos/hirescodelmarines.jpg to view a photo of U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) and constituents serving in the Marines at the U.S. Embassy in the Philippines.
1.4.2008	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) issued the following statement regarding the upcoming retirement of House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Tom Lantos (D-Calif.). Smith is a senior member on the committee. “It has been a great privilege in my career in Congress has been to serve on the Foreign Affairs Committee under Chairman Lantos. As the only survivor of the Holocaust to serve in Congress, he has been a consistent advocate for the human rights of all people, exemplified in his founding membership in the Congressional Human Rights Caucus. With his retirement, Congress loses one of its clearest voices on foreign policy. “I am deeply saddened by news of his illness and his decision not to seek reelection. I congratulate him on his 27 years of service to our country and wish him all the best.”
12.27.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) issued the following statement regarding the suicide bombing that killed Benazir Bhutto and dozens of others at a rally in Pakistan. Smith chairs the terrorism subcommittee on the House Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee: “The horrendous mass murder of dozens of Pakistanis today – including former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto – is a tragedy for all of us who value democracy. Madam Bhutto fought for democratic reforms in the face of numerous attempts on her life, and her courage in the face of repression inspired reformers all over the world. I offer my deepest condolences to the people of Pakistan, and especially to those who lost loved ones in today’s tragedy. “This kind of cowardly, criminal violence is absolutely unacceptable, and those responsible must be found and brought to justice. Bhutto and her fellow reformers fought to make exactly this kind of outrageous action obsolete within the context of Pakistan’s political life, and the United States and our allies must renew our commitment to this vital area of the world so that terrorists and political extremism do not carry the day. “I urge the government of Pakistan to respond to this tragedy with a renewed commitment to the rule of law, starting with free, fair elections for which Madam Bhutto and her reformers gave so much.”
12.19.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement after voting against legislation to provide $70 billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan with no constraints on the President’s policies. Smith voted earlier this week for legislation to provide $31 billion for Afghanistan operations. Smith also introduced a resolution today calling for an increased commitment in Afghanistan: “We absolutely have to refocus on the rising violence in Afghanistan and the resurgence of terrorists that hit us on 9/11, and that cannot happen until we change course in Iraq. The President’s policies would leave us tied up in a continued, costly occupation with no plan to reduce our presence below January 2007 levels. I firmly believe the President’s Iraq policy must change, and I voted ‘no’ for that purpose. “This was a difficult vote for me. I do not support cutting off funds for our troops while they are in combat, but that was not the decision before the House today. We have months before Defense Department funds would begin to run out, months we should use to continue to pressure the President to change course.”
12.19.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) issued the following statement regarding the fiscal year 2008 omnibus appropriations measure: “This legislation is far from perfect, but it reflects our best efforts to fund the priorities of the American people. I am encouraged that Congress was able to reverse some of the President’s proposed cuts to key programs. I was also able to help secure funding for key South Sound initiatives in this legislation,” Smith said. Overall, the legislation approved by the House makes significant improvements to the President’s budget request. The legislation reverses proposed cuts to essential programs, including: $1.8 billion for Homeland Security grants, recognizing that fighting terrorism must be a top priority. $1.7 billion for Pell Grants and other student aid programs. $1.2 billion for state and local law enforcement. $1 billion for health care access, including increases to programs like Community Health Centers to provide 280,000 more underinsured Americans with access to health care and High Risk Insurance Pools to help 200,000 more people afford health insurance. $767 million for K-12 education, including funds for Title 1, Special Education, Teacher Quality Grants, After School Programs, and Head Start. $575 million for technical training at high schools and community colleges. $486 million for energy efficiency and renewable fuel sources, including solar energy, wind energy, and biofuels. A list of South Sound projects funded in the omnibus bill can be found at http://www.house.gov/adamsmith/news/2008earmarks/earmarklist.shtml.
12.19.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today introduced H. Res. 911 in the House of Representatives calling for an increased commitment in Afghanistan to stem rising violence and confront resurgent Taliban and al-Qaida terrorists. The bill – cosponsored by House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (D-Mo.) – makes it clear that such an increase cannot occur until we reduce our troop presence in Iraq. “The simple message I hear from our troops and commanders is that we do not have enough people or resources on the ground to secure Afghanistan. The country is roughly the same size and population as Iraq and served as a haven for those that actually hit us on 9/11. And yet, despite all this, and despite a resurgent Taliban and al-Qaida, the administration decided that Afghanistan is only worth one-sixth of the troop commitment compared to Iraq,” Smith said. "Afghanistan is central to the fight against terrorism, and we can no longer afford to have our attention and resources diverted from that important mission. This bill is crucial to ensuring that long overdue resources are reallocated from Iraq to Afghanistan. I congratulate Congressman Smith on developing such a responsible piece of legislation and look forward to working with him to see that it becomes law," Skelton said. The Administration’s current policies for Iraq and Afghanistan create a massive mismatch in our commitments: Since September 11, 2001, the U.S. spent on foreign aid and diplomatic activities in Afghanistan and other Operation Enduring Freedom countries 31 cents for every dollar spent on similar activities in Iraq. The U.S. maintains approximately 25,000 troops in Afghanistan, compared to more than 160,000 troops in Iraq. Our continued, costly Iraq occupation precludes a sufficient troop increase in Afghanistan to confront a rising tide of violence. The security situation in Afghanistan is dire. The United Nations reports that thus far 2007 is the most violent year in Afghanistan since 2001, with suicide bombings up 69 percent in the first eight months of the year compared with the same period last year. Al-Qaida regenerated much of its ability to attack the U.S. and has a haven in the Pakistan Federally Administred Tribal Areas (FATA) along the Afghanistan border. The Taliban spread into new areas of the country and is believed to be working with al-Qaida leaders. To respond to these alarming developments, H. Res. 911 calls for the U.S., in partnership with our allies, to: Strengthen our long-term commitment to secure and stabilize Afghanistan and contribute the necessary levels of economic, civilian, and military resources; Increase military force levels in Afghanistan to a level sufficient to significantly improve security and stability in the country, prevent the return of a haven for al-Qaida and the Taliban, and enhance the ability of the Afghan National Security Forces to maintain long-term security and stability; Free up resources for Afghanistan by responsibly redeploying military forces in Iraq not essential for counterterrorism activities, training and equipping Iraqi security forces, or protection of United States citizens and facilities. The full text of the resolution can be found at http://www.house.gov/adamsmith/afghanistanvsiraq.pdf.
12.12.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted to support our troops in harm’s way and their families at home by supporting H.R. 1585, the fiscal year 2008 Defense Authorization Conference Report. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 370 to 49. “Our troops and their families continue to shoulder enormous burdens on our behalf. I was proud today to vote for legislation that recognizes the sacrifices they make for our country. This bill will also help repair our military readiness and reequip our National Guard,” Smith said. Supporting Our Troops in Harm’s Way “Our troops continue to do a fantastic job in very dangerous environments in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congress is doing all we can to make sure they have the greatest degree of safety possible. The legislation we passed today authorized billions of dollars in funds for more MRAPs, up-armored Humvees, counter measures for improvised explosive devices (IEDs), and new body armor,” Smith said. Restoring Our Military Readiness The conference report also addressees one of the worst results of the President’s Iraq policies: the degradation of our military readiness. The legislation passed by the U.S. Congress today addresses the drop in readiness by: Providing $980 million for National Guard equipment. Much of the Guard’s equipment was sent to support operations in Iraq. The bill also mandates rating and reporting of National Guard readiness for missions inside the United States. These provisions will be critical for ensuring the emergency response capability of the Washington National Guard. Authorizing $1 billion for the Strategic Readiness Fund to allow for rapid replacement of needed equipment. Establishing the Defense Materiel Readiness Board, mandating a detailed report on readiness. Supporting Our Military Families “This bill sets policies that will better support our military families strained by repeated, lengthy deployments. The bill increases military pay by 3.5 percent, prohibits fee increases under TRICARE, and provides better benefits for troops and families,” Smith said. The conference report includes the Wounded Warrior Act, which would improve care for injured troops returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. The Walter Reed Army Medical Center scandal revealed major gaps in care for wounded service members. The Act implements several recommendations of the commission set up to review shortcomings revealed by the scandal. Increasing Accountability in Contracts The defense authorization conference report improves accountability and cracks down on waste, fraud and abuse in contracting, including requiring new steps to manage and oversee contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan.
12.11.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement after a House Armed Services Committee hearing on security and stability in Afghanistan. The hearing included as witnesses Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Admiral Michael Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff: “It is clear following the responses of Secretary Gates and others that our efforts in Afghanistan suffer due to the depth of our commitment in Iraq. “Iraq and Afghanistan are two countries of similar size and population. In Iraq, we have roughly 164,000 troops, including the bulk of our special operations assets, and we spend more than $11 billion a month. In Afghanistan, the country used as a safe haven by al-Qaida while planning the September 11 attacks, we have only 25,000 troops and spend around $3 billion per month. The mismatch results from our making Iraq the highest priority to the point that we neglect a key front in the fight against al-Qaida and the Taliban. “The witnesses before the House Armed Services Committee gave a blunt summary of our approach in these two countries: ‘In Afghanistan, we do what we can; in Iraq, we do what we must.’ “Secretary Gates avoided the obvious – that we need much of the materiel and manpower currently bogged down in Iraq – by saying he wasn’t ready to ‘let NATO off the hook’ in Afghanistan. As important as it is to keep pressure on our allies to commit to the effort, that alone will not make the kind of difference we need to see in that country. “When I travel to Afghanistan to talk to troops in the field and commanders on the ground, the simple message I hear is that we do not have enough troops and resources in Afghanistan to secure the region from the Taliban and al-Qaida. The resources, manpower, and focus we need to succeed against those that actually hit us on 9/11 will not be available until we reduce our presence in Iraq.”
12.6.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted for forward-thinking energy legislation that would change the direction of American energy policy and protect the environment. The bill changes federal incentives from reliance on fossil fuels to greater use of renewable energy sources. Smith supported the Energy Independence and Security Act, which passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 235 – 181. “Prices at the pump, environmental quality, and the national security of our country are tied to our dependence on foreign and domestic fossil fuel sources. The energy policy we passed today will lower energy prices, create new jobs, and make our country more secure,” Smith said. “Our region has taken the lead in alternative energy sources for vehicles and electricity, along with energy efficiency standards. This legislation would bring our national policies more in line with the progressive policies in the Pacific Northwest,” Smith added. The fiscally responsible legislation passed by the House today pays for new initiatives by repealing tax breaks for oil companies enjoying record profits. The revenues provided by closing these tax breaks would be reinvested in programs that support American innovation, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. This legislation is the first step in changing U.S. energy policies to a more forward-thinking framework that protects the environment and bolsters our economy. The energy policy outlined in the Energy Independence and Security Act includes: Green building standards. Provisions in the bill would establish new standards for energy efficiency for building construction that could save Americans up to $50 billion per year. Smith introduced green buildings legislation earlier this year and was pleased to see Congress focus on the issue in this legislation. The first increases in vehicle fuel efficiency standards (CAFE) in 32 years. The new standard would be 35 miles per gallon by 2020. Establishes Renewable Fuels and Renewable Electricity Standards to increase the domestic use of renewable energy supplies, including American biofuels. New energy efficiency standards for consumer products. Provisions in the bill would establish new standards for energy efficiency for building construction that could save Americans up to $50 billion per year. Smith introduced green buildings legislation earlier this year and was pleased to see Congress focus on the issue in this legislation. President Bush threatened to veto the bill, a stance Smith urged him to rethink. “This bill is fiscally responsible and would create new American jobs, make the U.S. more secure, and protect our environment. The President should sign this bill when it makes it to his desk,” Smith said.
11.28.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) issued the following statement regarding the Defense Department’s (DoD) misguided bonus pay policy. DoD rules preclude the payment of scheduled bonuses to troops who do not finish their tours of duty due to combat-related injury. Smith cosponsored H.R. 3793, the Veterans Guaranteed Bonus Act of 2007, which would end this unfair policy. Smith also signed a letter to the President decrying DoD’s misguided rules regarding bonus pay. “This policy is unacceptable and must be rectified, especially at a time when we’re asking so much of our men and women in uniform. I have joined U.S. Rep. Jason Altmire (D-Pa.) in sponsoring legislation and calling on the President to correct this inequitable policy. Troops wounded in combat deserve to receive the full amount of their bonuses, including future bonus payments they were promised but haven’t received yet,” Smith said. DoD’s pay policy gained national attention after the Army demanded Private First Class Jordan Fox return almost $3,000 from a signing bonus promised to him when he signed up for military service. Pfc. Fox was unable to complete his tour of duty due to a service-connected injury. The Army has since stated that Pfc. Fox would not have to refund the already-paid portions of his bonus. However, the Department’s wider policy remains unchanged: troops who cannot complete their tours of duty due to combat-related injuries are denied the remainder of their scheduled pay bonuses. H.R. 3793 would force the department to pay out these bonuses in full within 30 days of a servicemember’s separation due to combat-related injuries. “While I was glad to see the Army respond to a specific wounded soldier’s case and clarify that no repayment of enlistment bonuses would be required, that doesn’t go far enough; the department’s unfair bonus pay policy must change. I’ll keep working to make sure wounded service members get the benefits they were promised,” Smith added.
11.15.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith issued the following statement in response to House passage of H.R. 4156, the Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act. The bill provides $50 billion for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan while requiring the Administration to begin reducing troops immediately and to plan for a full redeployment of combat forces by December 2008. “We are in the fifth year of the Iraq occupation. The costs of the war include nearly 4,000 American lives and tens of thousands of Iraqi lives. We have stretched our military to the breaking point and have not sufficiently confronted al-Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan. And still, the President and his advisors have no plans to reduce our forces below the numbers that were present in Iraq at the beginning of this year. “This bill is the latest in a series of votes by Democrats to chart a new direction in Iraq. It would provide short-term funds for the troops while requiring the President to begin redeploying troops within 30 days, and to provide a plan by February for the full redeployment of our combat troops from Iraq by the end of next year. The bill would also transition the mission of our remaining forces to counterterrorism, limited support of Iraqi troops, and diplomatic and force protection. “In addition, this legislation explicitly bans torture by U.S. government agencies. That we should even need to consider such a prohibition shows the damage that Bush Administration policies have done to our nation’s credibility. This ban is an essential step in restoring America’s moral leadership. “Congress should not provide funds for the President’s policies in Iraq unless the administration and military officials plan for the end of our occupation. Instead of pursuing a dangerous strategy of permanent bases – which would further frustrate our efforts to gain the cooperation of the Muslim world in confronting al-Qaeda – the President and his congressional allies should join Democrats in changing our policies. I am disappointed that Republicans in Congress again blocked our effort in the House to build a veto-proof majority; as long as they continue to do so, our options in Congress remain limited. “We have already seen what the administration’s lack of planning cost us when we began the Iraq war. We should not repeat that mistake by failing to plan for the end of the occupation.”
11.14.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith today voted to invest in key infrastructure and housing needs by supporting the conference report for H.R. 3074, the fiscal year 2008 Transportation – Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 270 to 147. “Recent events illustrate the need for this bipartisan, fiscally responsible legislation: collapsing bridges, aging highway systems, and a housing crunch threatening American families. Congress passed legislation tonight that would invest in each of these areas to support our economy. The President should withdraw his veto threat and join us in investing in our nation’s economic and social health,” Smith said. The conference report includes key investments in our nation’s transportation system, including highways, railways, and bridges. Congress also included funds to help Americans obtain affordable housing by increasing Housing and Urban Development vouchers. The President threatened to veto the measure over objections to additional investments made by Congress that exceed the President’s inadequate budget request. The conference report appropriates a total of $105.6 billion and includes the following investments: $40 billion for road construction, repair and improvement; $1 billion for bridge rehabilitation; $195 million to complete the Federal share of reconstruction costs for the collapsed I-35 bridge; Funds to renew all existing housing vouchers, and 15,500 new vouchers for veterans, the disabled, and low-income families; A 500 percent funding increase for housing counseling during the sub-prime mortgage crisis to help homeowners stay in their homes; $3.5 billion for grants for airport efficiency, modernization and safety; $1.45 billion for Amtrak; $110 million for air travel access to air rural communities; and More than $85 million for pipeline and rail safety. Smith also worked to secure funds for the following South Sound transportation priorities: $150,000 for a planned Bethel Community Center in unincorporated Pierce County that will support seniors, families and youth. The community center will help improve the health and wellness of senior citizens and youth, support educational programs, and provide physical education and recreational opportunities for the area’s 100,000 residents. $14,076,000 for the King County Pacific Highway South Bus Rapid Transit, Seattle, WA. This is one of only four projects nationwide for which the Federal Transportation Administration (FTA) recommended funding under the Very Small Starts program in its 2008 New Starts Report to Congress. The project runs from Sound Transit's Light Rail Station at 154th Street (north of SeaTac Airport) to the Federal Way Transit Center (near SeaTac Mall), a distance of 10.35 miles. Once fully implemented, it will reduce travel time in each direction by 12 to 15 minutes. $1,260,000 for Auburn A-B Street Corridor Connector in Auburn, WA. This project will connect a major north-south corridor by constructing a 1.47 mile missing link in the 3.5 mile A-B Street corridor, which begins at the Auburn Transit Station and terminates at S. 277th Street on Auburn’s northern city limits. The project will consist of a new 3-lane and 5-lane road with sidewalks between 3rd Street NW and 14th Street NW. The project will link three grade-separated arterials from the northern city limits to the Auburn Transit Station – a regional transit hub served by the Sounder commuter rail and local and express bus service. $1,050,000 for the Lincoln Avenue Grade Separation at the Port of Tacoma in Tacoma, WA. The grade separation will improve the rail connection between the north and south sides of Lincoln Avenue. The corridor is critical to operations at the Port of Tacoma; Lincoln Avenue is a key connector to Portland Avenue, which is one of only two entrances to the Port from I-5. $500,000 for FAST Corridor Grade Separations. These improved crossings at highway and railroad intersections along the I-5 corridor will better facilitate the passage of freight and vehicular traffic. $500,000 to provide additional access on and off I-5 at SR-161/S 356th Street. This is a critical segment of the overall Triangle Project in Federal Way: it would create a new access point to Federal Way and surrounding communities; direct access to surrounding businesses; and will alleviate safety and congestion issues associated with too few and outdated access points to the area, particularly the highly-congested intersection of SR-18 and SR-161, designated by WSDOT as a High Accident Location. The community center will help improve the health and wellness of senior citizens and youth, support educational programs, and provide physical education and recreational opportunities for the area’s 100,000 residents.
11.9.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith today voted for H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007. The act will prevent 23 million middle class families from paying the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) this April. To pay for this tax cut, the bill corrects a tax inequity by closing loopholes for investment fund managers. “The bill we passed in the House today will prevent more than 43,000 people in Washington state from paying the Alternative Minimum Tax this April. And it does so without adding a dime to our deficit – a major break from the previous Congress. Democrats are dedicated to preventing this tax increase on middle class families and this bill does so in a fiscally responsible way,” Smith said. The Alternative Minimum Tax was originally enacted to ensure the very wealthy are not able to dodge paying their fair share of taxes. However, because the income level triggering the AMT on a tax return does not rise as inflation rises, the tax now threatens middle class workers like teachers and firefighters. The bill offered today provides a temporary fix to prevent more than 23 million families from being inappropriately required to pay an increased tax rate. To pay for the temporary fix for the AMT, the bill closes a loophole for investment fund managers who receive “carried interest” as a form of income. Currently, they pay a 15 percent capital gains tax rate on payment for services rather than a 35 percent income tax rate as other corporate professionals do for similar income from similar jobs. The bill ends this inappropriate tax inequity for very high incomes in order to prevent unfair taxation of middle class families. The bill also includes a $9 billion extension of the research and development (R&D) tax credit. R&D tax credits provide companies with incentives to invest in new products and ideas that promote our competitiveness in the global marketplace and energize our economy. These incentives are part of the House Democrats’ Innovation Agenda, which Smith and the New Democrats helped craft. The bill extends the research credit for one year. Other helpful provisions in this bill include: Property tax relief for 30 million homeowners Expansion of the child tax credit to cover 12 million children State and local sales tax reduction for 11 million families College tuition deduction expanded for 4.5 million families Classroom expenses deductions for 3.4 million teachers Tax relief under the Earned Income Tax Credit for combat troops The Temporary Tax Relief Act is fully paid for and will not add to the deficit.
11.8.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement on the U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement (FTA), which passed the House this morning by a vote of 285 to 132. The agreement will lower trade barriers to U.S. exports to Peru and put worker and environmental protections on equal footing with commercial concerns. “The Peru FTA represents a new direction on trade away from the excessively partisan trade debates we saw under the previous Congress. Chairman Rangel and the Ways and Means Committee deserve credit for forcing the Administration to come to the table to hammer out a bipartisan way forward. The FTA we approved today represents a real, bipartisan step forward in line with the agreement they worked out earlier this year. “Prior to the policy agreement, progressive issues such as environmental concerns and worker protections were given far less protection in trade agreements than commercial issues like investor and intellectual property rights. That made it much harder for the U.S. to leverage our economic strength to influence trading partners to make progress in those areas. “By putting strong labor and environmental safeguards on equal footing with other issues, we gain real leverage to enforce them. This is the most progressive trade agreement to ever come before this House, and I am proud to support it. “The Peru FTA will also help solidify our economic partnership with Latin America and support Peru’s efforts to grow and reduce poverty. I visited Peru last year and saw the challenges posed by underdevelopment, as well as the potential that economic growth holds for improving people’s lives. Our current trade preferences for Peru have fueled growth and poverty reduction there, and this FTA will make those preferences permanent. “This FTA is a big step forward for our trade policy and I am proud to support it.” Smith spoke on the floor of the House in favor of the U.S.-Peru FTA, and you can view video of his speech at http://www.house.gov/adamsmith. You can find a photo from Smith’s 2006 trip to Peru at http://www.house.gov/adamsmith/photos/perutrip2006.JPG. Caption: U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) met with Felipe Llona, president of AGAP (Ag. Exporters Association), and workers on Llona’s farm about working conditions during Smith’s 2006 trip to Peru. Photo credit: Adam Shub, U.S. State Department.
11.8.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted to restore U.S. military readiness and to support our troops and veterans by voting for the conference agreement on H.R. 3222, the Department of Defense Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008. The legislation passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 400 to 15. “The strain on our military from the continued conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan has caused the worst readiness crisis since the Vietnam war. Congress acted today to restore the capabilities of our Armed Services and to support our troops and veterans. We also included funds for Fort Lewis to support the families stationed here and to improve trauma care in our region,” Smith said. The conference agreement provides $460.3 billion dollars for the Defense Department and includes several investments to strengthen our military, including: A 3.5 percent pay raise for our troops, larger than President Bush requested; Body armor and armored vehicles for troops in Iraq; Funds for depleted National Guard and Reserve equipment; and Improvements in health care and assistance with red tape for wounded veterans. The bill also included funds Smith requested for Ft. Lewis-related programs, including: $2,400,000 to expand the “Heroes at Home” pilot program that offers parent education and family support to young military families at U.S. bases including Ft. Lewis. The program is implemented by the non-profit Parents as Teachers and works with military families throughout pregnancy until their child turns three. Research indicates that young military families are most impacted by the stresses of military life and separation. The program currently serves 78 children at Ft. Lewis. $1,000,000 for Tacoma Trauma Trust (TTT) / Madigan Army Medical Center Trauma Assistance Program. TTT is a partnership of Madigan Army Medicare Center, the MultiCare Health System, and the Franciscan Health System which administers this critical military-civilian emergency health care partnership. TTT helps deliver critical Level II trauma care to South King, Pierce, Kitsap and Thurston Counties and southwest Washington as well as much-needed trauma training for medical personnel. Other regional military-related funding requested by Smith and included in the conference report included: $2 million for Seattle Biomedical Research Institute (SBRI) to work with the Army to develop and test a new malaria vaccine. Malaria is the top infectious disease threat to U.S. military forces deployed overseas. The Gates Foundation also supports SBRI’s work with the Army, as a new vaccine could prevent malaria infection in developing countries around the world. $1 million for targeted radiation cancer therapy at Madigan Army Hospital and the Puget Sound VA. This funding will be used to provide innovative prostate cancer treatment therapy for military personnel and veterans. Calypso Medical Technologies, a Seattle biomedical company, will carry out this program using their cutting-edge targeted radiation tumor tracking technology. $1.6 million for high-tech aircraft inspections. These funds will facilitate the development of advanced systems to perform more efficient and effective airframe maintenance inspections on the Air Force’s C-5 aircraft. Quest Integrated, Inc. of Kent, WA, will carry out this program with its Induction Thermography System (ITS) technology. $1.6 million for the Systems Biology Biomarker Molecular Toxicology Initiative – Institute of Systems Biology. "Biomarkers" are various biological indicators of disease states, exposure to environmental insults such as chemicals and toxins, and/or individual susceptibility to pathogens and chemicals. The U.S. Army Research Development and Engineering Command (RDECOM) studies biomarkers following very low level exposures to chemical nerve agents. Institute for Systems Biology’s (ISB) innovative work supports RDECOM’s efforts. Finally, the conference report included a continuing resolution to fund the federal government through December 14, including funds for the Department of Veterans Affairs at an increased rate over fiscal year 2007 levels.
11.7.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today supported K-through-12 education, college affordability, health care access and research, and job training by voting for H.R. 3043, a conference report package that included the Labor, Heath and Human Services and Education appropriations bill. Smith helped secure funds for South Sound health care and education projects included in the legislation. The conference report passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 269 to 142. President Bush has threatened to veto the measure. “If our country is to remain competitive in the new economy, we have to make the right investments in job training, health care, medical research, and education. Tonight the House passed a legislative package that includes these broad priorities, as well as specific essential projects in the South Sound. The President should sign this legislation when it reaches his desk,” Smith said. Smith helped secure funds for the following South Sound projects in the conference package: $1,500,000 for the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance for facilities and equipment. $290,000 for Northwest Kidney Centers for facilities and equipment. $200,000 for Northwest Center to provide and expand academic and vocational resources to developmentally delayed or disabled persons in King County. $200,000 for the South Sound Health Communication Network to help develop a community Health Record Bank. $200,000 for Thurston-Mason County Medical Society’s Project Access for the uninsured. $150,000 for Clover Park Technical College to create an institute of environmental sustainability in the workforce. $50,000 for Communities in Schools of Tacoma for after school programs. The conference report package passed tonight included the Military Construction-VA funding bill and the Labor, Heath and Human Services and Education bills.
11.7.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted to support our veterans and Armed Services by supporting H.R. 3043, a conference report package that included the 2008 Military Construction-VA funding bill. The legislative package included the single largest increase for veterans’ health care in the history of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), as well as key investments in the South Sound. The conference report passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 269 to 142. “Tonight, Congress lived up to its obligations to support our troops and our veterans. The bill we passed included the biggest single funding increase in the history of the VA to make sure they get the support they deserve. I was also pleased to have secured funds for local military construction projects that support our National Guard and provide alternative energy options for both the military and the public,” Smith said. Smith secured funds for the following South Sound military construction projects in the conference package: $3.3 million for a new Ft. Lewis Alternative Fueling Facility for military and public use. Alternative fuel available at the facility will include biodiesel, ethanol, and others. $152,000 for the Tacoma Readiness Center to plan and design the renovation of the Washington National Guard’s Readiness Center in Tacoma. The century-old Tacoma Armory building needs renovations to ensure it can be used for training and stationing Guard soldiers. The conference report package passed tonight included both the Military Construction-VA funding bill (H.R. 2642) and the Labor, Heath and Human Services and Education bills (H.R. 3043).
10.31.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today applauded House passage of a bill to expand and improve the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program in defiance of a White House veto threat. H.R. 3920, the Trade and Globalization Assistance Act of 2007, extends TAA to service industry workers; improves access to training, health care, and wage insurance benefits; creates a program to address community needs; and reauthorizes TAA programs through fiscal year 2012. The bill passed by the House today closely mirrors a bill Smith introduced on October 10, 2007. Smith was an original cosponsor of H.R. 3920 and worked closely with House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.) and U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Mich.) to shape it. Smith introduced similar legislation in the 108th and 109th Congresses. H.R. 3920 passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 264 to 157. “When our workers lose jobs because of our trade policies, we have an obligation to help them get back on their feet. The TAA program as it exists today is out of date, and this bill will modernize it to get more Americans – including service workers like software engineers and call center employees – the help they need to stay competitive in the global marketplace,” Smith said. Video of Smith’s statement in support of the bill can be found at http://www.house.gov/adamsmith. Congress created the TAA program in 1962 in response to the loss of jobs among hard-working Americans and to promote American competitiveness. TAA benefits have several components: training assistance, income support while in training, and interim health care support. The program assists workers dislocated due to government policies that eliminated tariffs and other barriers to trade. However, under current law, the program extends coverage only to workers in manufacturing and agricultural sectors, even though service-sector jobs also are increasingly moving overseas. The Trade and Globalization Assistance Act of 2007: Extends TAA benefits to service sector employees (including IT workers, engineers, customer services employees, and others) and to more manufacturing workers. Doubles the current training funding cap from $220 million to $440 million for fiscal year 2008, and increases it to $660 million by 2010. Increases TAA’s healthcare premium subsidy from the current 65 percent to 85 percent. Simplifies application process by authorizing Secretary of Labor to certify groups of workers as eligible for TAA on an industry-wide basis rather than on a plant-by-plant basis as in current law. Provides incentives to states to improve unemployment insurance coverage for low-income, part-time, and other workers.
10.23.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement in response to the President’s request for an additional $46 billion for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yesterday’s request brings the amount sought by the President for fiscal year 2008 war spending to $196.4 billion. “President Bush requested a total of $196.4 billion for next year, mostly to continue our Iraq occupation, which is now in its fifth year. The President has yet to provide a real plan to end our occupation, stop the flow of resources into a multisided sectarian civil war, and refocus on the fight against al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups around the world. And yet, he wants Congress to provide almost $200 billion to continue down a path that undermines our security and gives extremists a rallying point. “President Bush is fighting Congressional efforts to provide funds for our veterans, health care for children, and infrastructure improvements here at home on the basis that we cannot afford them. But this request dwarfs the price tag of those essential priorities, and it highlights the enormous cost of the President’s policies in Iraq. “Our occupation will continue until we begin to end it. It is long past time for a new direction in Iraq. We must begin to redeploy our troops and end the occupation so we can refocus on the fight to stop the spread of terrorism around the world.”
10.19.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) announced today a November 1, 2007 deadline for applications for nominations from his office to a U.S. military academy. “It is an honor for me to be able to nominate outstanding young men and women each year to the U.S. military academies. The academies provide an excellent education and an exceptional opportunity to serve our country,” Smith said. Smith may make nominations to four military academies: the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, New York the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, New York; and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecticut does not require a nomination; however, qualified applicants can request a letter of recommendation from Smith’s office. Who may apply: To apply for an appointment, a candidate must live in Washington’s Ninth Congressional District be between 17 and 23 years old and be unmarried. Applicants whose parents are temporarily stationed at a military base but maintain legal residence in another state should apply to the congressional office from that district. How to apply: Applicants should contact their Member of Congress and both Senators and apply to each office. For further information, visit Smith’s website at www.house.gov/adamsmith or contact Rebecca Snyder in Smith’s office at (253) 896-3775 or toll-free (888) 764-8409.
10.18.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted to overcome the President’s misguided veto of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act, legislation that would provide health care coverage to more than 10 million low-income children. The vote to override the President required a two-thirds majority and failed by a vote of 273 to 156. “The President’s veto and the protection afforded it by House Republicans harmed Washington state in particular. Had the bill become law, Washington state would have been able to keep and use its full federal allocation for SCHIP to cover our children,” Smith said. SCHIP was created in 1997 to help families get medical care when they made too much money to get Medicaid but not enough to buy private insurance. The bill vetoed by the President would have provided states resources needed for outreach to enroll additional families that are currently eligible for the program. The bill reflected a compromise between the House and the Senate and had broad bipartisan support. It included language to allow Washington state to keep and use its full federal allocation for SCHIP. When SCHIP was first implemented, Washington state already covered SCHIP-eligible children under our state’s Medicaid program and could not use the full federal allotment given to many other states. This bill would have allowed Washington state to keep and utilize these needed funds to ensure children get health coverage.
10.11.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) yesterday introduced a bill to expand and improve the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. H.R. 3801, the TAA Improvement Act, extends TAA to service industry workers; improves access to training, health care, and wage insurance benefits; creates a program to address community needs; and reauthorizes TAA programs through fiscal year 2012. “The economy has changed in a thousand different ways since the TAA program was first implemented, and the government has not responded sufficiently to help workers. My bill will extend TAA to service-sector employees, improve accessibility of TAA’s various benefits, and help communities impacted by trade,” Smith said. Congress created the TAA program in 1962 in response to the loss of jobs among hard-working Americans and to promote American competitiveness. TAA benefits have several components: training assistance, income support while in training, and job search and relocation assistance. The program assists workers dislocated due to government policies that eliminated tariffs and other barriers to trade. However, under current law, the program extends coverage only to workers in manufacturing and agricultural sectors, even though service-sector jobs also are increasingly moving overseas. The TAA Improvement Act: Extends TAA benefits to service sector employees including IT workers, engineers, customer services employees, and others. Doubles the current training funding cap from $220 million to $440 million, and builds in a mechanism for increasing the cap in future years to ensure that benefits are accessible for all eligible workers. Increases TAA’s healthcare premium subsidy from the current 65 percent to 85 percent. Simplifies application process by authorizing Secretary of Labor to certify groups of workers as eligible for TAA on an industry-wide basis rather than on a plant-by-plant basis as in current law. Establishes a “TAA for Communities” program to assist communities heavily impacted by trade-related displacement. Smith introduced similar legislation in the 108th and 109th Congresses. The bill is similar to Senator Max Baucus’s (D-Mont.) S. 1848.
10.4.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted for H.R. 2740, a bill to bring all private military contractors under the accountability of U.S. law. The bill closes a loophole that allows contractors working for government agencies aside from the Defense Department – like State-Department-employed Blackwater – to dodge prosecution in U.S. courts if they commit crimes in a war zone. H.R. 2740 passed by a vote of 389 to 30. “We are using huge numbers of private contractors in Iraq outside of the jurisdiction of our courts. We need to bring all private groups in Iraq under the rule of law and establish accountability,” Smith said. Congress passed the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA) in 2000. The bill originally gave U.S. courts jurisdiction over contractors hired by the Defense Department in overseas war zones. The State Department and other agencies make use of such contractors, and the original MEJA language does not extend court jurisdiction over them. More than 1,000 private security contractors now do business with the State Department in Iraq apparently outside of any U.S. legal accountability. These contractors include 861 Blackwater employees. Under the bill passed today, these and all other security contractors working for the U.S. can be held accountable to U.S. law when they commit crimes. H.R. 2740 must now be passed by the Senate before the President can sign it into law.
9.25.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith's (D-Wash.) Global Poverty Act of 2007 today passed the House of Representatives under a suspension of the House rules. Smith spoke in favor of the legislation just before it passed by voice vote: Watch Video
9.20.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today announced he secured language in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill to fund the redevelopment of noise mitigation land near airports. The provision provides an opportunity for partnerships like the City of Burien and the Port of Seattle to apply for up to $5 million in funds to develop buffer zones near the port’s third runway. “Noise buffer land near airports can provide important economic development opportunities for both nearby communities and airports. The pilot projects we fund in this bill will support these ‘win-win’ partnerships and help them coordinate more effectively,” Smith said. The provision Smith secured would expand the current eligible uses of noise mitigation funds or passenger facility charge funds to allow for redevelopment of land next to airports. The provision directs the FAA to fund four pilot projects run by a partnership between airports and local communities at a maximum of $5 million per pilot program. The federal share of project costs will be capped at 80 percent. The bill including the pilot project provision, H.R. 2881, passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 267 to 151. The bill must now be passed by the Senate and a conference report agreed to by both Houses of Congress before the President can sign it into law.
9.10.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement following his interaction with General David H. Petraeus and Ambasador Ryan C. Crocker during a joint House Armed Services / Foreign Affairs Committee hearing. Petraeus and Crocker testified about Iraq and the state of the President’s escalation strategy. “Today’s testimony by General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker did not clarify the Administration’s criteria for beginning to end our occupation. What was clear, however, was that the only drawdown that we currently have plans for would simply return us to pre-escalation troop levels. Essentially, by July 2008, we would return to where we were in January 2007. “Based on the testimony I heard today, it is clear that there is no end in sight to our occupation of Iraq under this Administration’s policies. “Our current involvement in Iraq comes at an enormous cost to our country, and the escalation has failed to bring about the stated goal of political reconciliation. It is time to reallocate our resources to better confront al-Qaeda and the threat presented by their violent, totalitarian ideology across the globe.”
9.7.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith today voted for H.R. 1908, the Patent Reform Act, to help promote innovation and ingenuity in America. The Act passed today by a vote of 220 to 175. “This legislation is the most significant patent reform in more than fifty years. This bill will stimulate innovation and promote American competitiveness in the global marketplace. I plan to continue working to improve certain provisions of this bill to make sure the best version possible becomes law,” Smith said. The Patent Reform Act is a bipartisan bill that includes measures to streamline our patent approval procedures and protect the integrity of the patent process: A move to a first-come, first-serve basis for issuing patents. Currently the U.S. relies on a “first to invent” patent system, wherein patents are granted to applicants who can prove they invented a given product before other applicants. No other nation in the world uses such a system because of the inefficiencies, uncertainties, and staff time inherent in such a process; they use instead a “first to file” system, wherein the first applicant for a given patent receives it on a first-come, first-serve basis. Enhancements to fairness in adjudication of patent disputes. H.R. 1908 provides guidance to the judicial branch to ensure that patent owners receive appropriate damages while not discouraging innovation in a given field. The bill also provides clarification to patent holders on requirements to prove “willfulness” in infringement disputes. The legislation includes protection against abuse of validity challenges to patents as well. H.R. 1908 must now be approved by the Senate and a conference agreement must be reached between both Houses of Congress before the President can sign it into law.
9.5.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) issued the following statement on the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report indicating the Iraqi government met only 3 of 18 benchmarks for adequate progress in Iraq: “President Bush escalated our presence in Iraq under the premise that more troops would help stabilize Iraq and create ‘breathing space’ for political progress. The GAO report indicates that the escalation has largely failed to achieve the President’s stated goals. “According to GAO, the Iraqis met only 3 of 18 benchmarks agreed to by the U.S. and the Iraqi government, including only 2 of 9 security benchmarks and 1 of 8 legislative benchmarks. “Further, the report tells us attacks against civilians per day in Iraq have not decreased over the past six months. And, from March to August 2007, the number of Iraqi security units able to function independently decreased. “Our occupation of Iraq is not achieving our stated goals and it comes at an enormous cost to our country. We must begin to redeploy our troops from Iraq and chart a new direction that allows us to refocus on stopping the spread of terrorism in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and around the world.” The GAO’s report can be found online at http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d071195.pdf
9.5.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement in reaction to the death of former U.S. Rep. Jennifer Dunn (R-Wash.): “I am profoundly saddened by the death of former Congresswoman Dunn. “Jennifer was a wonderful Member of Congress and it was my honor to serve with her in the House of Representatives. She was one of Washington’s most distinguished public servants, a leader in our delegation who reached out to Republicans and Democrats alike. She will be missed. “Our thoughts and prayers are with her family during this difficult time.”
8.27.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement in response to the resignation of U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales: "Alberto Gonzales was not up for the job of U.S. Attorney General, and I am pleased he announced his resignation. I am disappointed the President did not act sooner to preserve the integrity of the Justice Department. "Gonzales's divisive tenure has been destructive to the interests of our country. Mr. Gonzales pushed to erode privacy rights through warrantless wiretapping. He was deeply involved in the politically motivated firings of qualified U.S. attorneys. When he testified before Congress on these and other matters, he gave inconsistent testimony and offered no satisfactory explanations for apparent contradictions of himself and other senior officials. His actions undermined Americans' confidence in their Justice Department. "Ultimately, however, the responsibility for the actions of senior administration officials rests with the President of the United States. I urge President Bush to choose a nominee for this post with the highest integrity and a commitment to the protection of the rights of U.S. citizens."
8.4.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) and a majority of his colleagues in the House of Representatives passed an energy package on Saturday that will make our nation more secure, create new American jobs, reduce energy costs to consumers, and fight global warming. “We face serious security and environmental challenges that are tied to our dependence on oil and on foreign oil in particular. These bills will help protect the environment, promote alternative energy sources grown right here in the United States, and help end our dependence on foreign oil supplies,” Smith said. H.R. 3221, the New Direction for Energy Independence, National Security, and Consumer Protection Act, passed by a vote of 241-172. H.R. 2776, the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2007, passed by a vote of 221 to 189. Taken together, the bills approved by the House will: Help reduce our dependence on foreign oil; Make the largest investment in biofuels in history; Repeal $23 billion in tax subsidies and royalty relief provisions for big oil companies; Close loopholes that offer incentives for business to purchase gas-guzzling vehicles; Support cutting edge-research and the development of new energy technologies; Reduce emissions by as much as 10.4 billion tons through 2030 -- more than the annual emissions of all of the cars on the road in America today; and Call on the U.S. to re-engage and lead the global effort on a binding global warming agreement.
8.4.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) issued the following statement on Saturday regarding S. 1927, a bill that included changes to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act regarding warrantless wiretapping and other surveillance. Smith voted against the measure which would threaten Americans’ Constitutional right to privacy. The bill passed by a vote of 227 to 183. “Director of National Intelligence (DNI) Admiral Mike McConnell informed Congress of a critical collection gap in our electronic surveillance capabilities allowed by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. On Friday I voted for a bill to close that gap and make sure intelligence agencies have all of the tools they need to secure our country while protecting Americans’ constitutional right to privacy. “Unfortunately, the President threatened to veto an approach that would have safeguarded our homeland and our Constitution. Following the President’s threat, the bill did not pass. “On Saturday, the House took up a much broader Senate-passed version that would give the President and Attorney General authority to conduct warrantless surveillance on Americans without meaningful judicial oversight. This surveillance could be conducted as long as the surveillance ‘concerns’ people ‘reasonably believed to be outside the United States.’ The loose language in this bill sets an unacceptably low bar for protecting the privacy rights of American citizens. “I voted against this bill. We absolutely must take action to stop terrorist attacks, but we can do so without sacrificing our most basic Constitutional rights and liberties. Congress should correct this overreach when the bill expires in six months.”
8.2.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted with a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives to ensure our troops have the time at home they need. The Ensuring Military Readiness Through Stability and Predictability Deployment Policy Act was approved by a vote of 229-194. “Our local military families are under an enormous strain due to the length and number of deployments being required of them. This bill will give them a chance to recover, reconnect, rest and train before they return to the battlefield,” Smith said. The legislation mandates minimum periods of rest and recuperation for units and members of regular and reserve components of our Armed Forces between deployments. The bill requires that units or members of a regular component of the Armed Forces be given an equivalent amount of time at home compared to the length of their deployment before returning to the theater. National Guard and reservists would be home for three times the length of the deployments. The bill would allow the President to waive these requirements on an individual or unit-level basis if necessary to meet national security needs of the country, and would exempt special operations forces from the rest-time requirement. The Administration’s failed policies in Iraq have depleted our military and put a tremendous strain on our troops. An estimated 250,000 soldiers in the Army and Marine Corps have served more than one tour in Iraq and each of the Army’s available active duty combat brigades served at least a 12-month tour in Iraq or Afghanistan. This spring, the Defense Secretary announced that all active duty Army soldiers would have their tours in Iraq extended from 12 to 15 months. The legislation was backed by a bipartisan majority in Congress and was supported by Veterans for America and the Reserve Enlisted Association.
8.2.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted for H.R. 2272, the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education and Science Act (COMPETES) Act, part of the House Democrats’ Innovation Agenda. The bill passed by a vote of 367 to 57. Smith and his colleagues in the New Democrat Coalition were instrumental in crafting the Agenda in the 109th Congress. “It is absolutely essential that the U.S. maintain its competitive edge in the world market This bill will help us take the strong, needed steps to get our children the education they need to be prepared for the modern economy,” Smith said. The bill authorizes funding for programs to create more qualified teachers in science and math fields and to support scientific research and innovation through the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Department of Energy (DOE) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). H.R. 2272 is based on the 2005 National Academies report, “Rising Above the Gathering Storm,” which found that the U.S. must take immediate steps to keep its competitive edge in the world economy. H.R. 2272 incorporated suggestions from the National Academies that would: Keep the National Science Foundation and the NIST research labs on a 10-year doubling path; Create thousands of new teachers and provide current teachers with content and academic expertise in their area of teaching; Expand programs to enhance the undergraduate education of the future science and engineering workforce; Expand early career grant programs for outstanding young investigators at both the NSF Foundation and the Department of Energy; Strengthen interagency planning and coordination for research infrastructure and information technology; Establish an Advanced Research Projects Agency – Energy to recruit and hire the nation’s most talented scientists and engineers who will research and rapidly develop clean, revolutionary energy technologies to be pushed from the lab into the marketplace. The legislation authorizes $22 billion over fiscal years 2008 – 2010 for research, education and other programs at the NSF; $2.65 billion for the research labs, the Manufacturing Extension Partnership and other activities at the NIST, and $17 billion, over fiscal years 2008 to 2010, for programs at the DOE, including $150 million for K-12 science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) educational programs. The Senate must now approve the conference report before it can be signed into law by the President.
8.2.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement regarding H.R. 1495, the reauthorization of the Water Resources Development Act. The bill included a needed one-year extension of Section 214 authority, which allows the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to accept and spend funds from non-federal public entities to expedite infrastructure improvement permit applications. “I am pleased that Congress passed a reauthorization of WRDA which included a one-year extension of Section 214. I have advocated for the permanent extension of this provision for some time, which has provided an effective tool for municipalities and ports in Washington state to expedite the permitting process for improvements to our infrastructure. I will continue to work for a permanent extension of Section 215 in the next reauthorization bill,” Smith said. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers provides permits for infrastructure improvements undertaken by local governments. In many parts of the country, this process faces huge backlogs of permit applications. To expedite the handling of these applications, the Corps is allowed to accept Section 214 funds from outside entities and hire additional workers to process the applications. Local governments across the country, and particularly in Washington State, utilize the process spelled out in Section 214 to keep their permit applications moving. Smith had hoped for a permanent extension of Section 215, which, prior to this extension, was scheduled to expire on December 31, 2008. The extension included in the WRDA reauthorization extends the Corps authority to accept and use these funds through 2009.
8.1.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) announced that H.R. 1302, the Global Poverty Act, had been favorably reported by the House Foreign Affairs Committee to the full House of Representatives on Tuesday, July 31, 2007. The bill received broad bipartisan support within the committee and passed by a unanimous consent agreement. H.R. 1302 codifies the reduction of global poverty as national policy and requires the Administration to create a strategy to support such a policy. Smith sponsored the bill with U.S. Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.). “More than a billion people live in extreme poverty. That situation is immoral and a recipe for instability. We have committed to the goal of reducing poverty as a country in various forms, though various programs and organizations, but we are not making adequate progress due to a lack of a unified strategy. This bill will lead to more accountability and to more effective efforts in the fight against global poverty,” Smith said. H.R. 1302: Declares it official U.S. policy to promote the reduction of global poverty, the elimination of extreme global poverty, and the achievement of the U.N. Millennium Development Goal of cutting extreme global poverty in half by 2015. Requires the President to develop and implement a comprehensive strategy to carry out that policy. Includes guidelines for what the strategy should include - from aid, trade, and debt relief, to working with the international community, businesses and NGOs, to ensuring environmental sustainability. Requires that the President’s strategy include specific and measurable goals, efforts to be undertaken, benchmarks, and timetables. Requires the President to report back to Congress bi-annually on progress made in the implementation of the global poverty strategy. Forty-one organizations have endorsed the legislation so far, including the ONE Campaign, the Borgen Project, CARE, Catholic Relief Services, Oxfam America, RESULTS, and Bread for the World. The bill must now be considered by the full House of Representatives.
8.1.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement following House passage of the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act of 2007. The bill reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and provides health insurance to 11 million eligible children. Smith voted for the legislation, which passed by a vote of 225 to 204. “Washington State has been a leader on providing quality health care for low income children. Unfortunately, under the current federal rules regarding SCHIP, our state lost hundreds of millions of dollars over the last decade. The bill we passed today will ensure that our state gets its fair share of federal funds so we can reach out to more eligible families and dramatically increase coverage of previously uninsured children. “While I am disappointed with the cuts to Medicare Advantage (MA), which has given 20 percent of the seniors in my district an alternative to traditional Medicare, the permanent 100 percent fix for SCHIP and several other positive provisions made it a huge win for Washington State. I hope that we can address the cuts to the MA program in conference. I look forward to continuing to work with the Democratic leadership to provide quality, affordable health care for all Americans.”
7.27.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted against final passage of H.R. 2419, the Farm, Nutrition and Bioenergy Act, which re-authorizes several major agricultural programs. The Farm Bill affects the abundance and affordability of the U.S. food supply; the conservation of natural resources; future energy policy; and the provision of nutritious food for vulnerable Americans. Smith voted against the bill because of its high cost and its adherence to outdated, unwise agriculture policies. The bill passed by a vote of 231 to 191. The Congressional Budget Office estimates H.R. 2419 will cost $286 billion over five years, and $614 billion over ten years. The benefits are concentrated in the hands of a small group of farmers. In addition, the trade-distorting programs in the bill will hinder the nation's ability to gain greater access to international markets. “Americans deserve a farm policy that changes with the times to meet their needs. Unfortunately, this Farm Bill clings to an outdated, wasteful subsidy system. We must examine existing programs and subsidies and phase out those that are no longer useful to eliminate waste and ineffectiveness. This legislation does not go nearly far enough to modernize our agricultural policies,” Smith said. “I am particularly concerned that the market-distorting subsidies in this bill will undermine our efforts to expand international trade and create jobs in Washington State. With one in three jobs in our State linked to trade, we can’t afford to take this step backwards.” Smith supported an alternative amendment offered by Reps. Ron Kind (D-Wisc.) and Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) that would have reformed the farmer safety net to benefit small farmers at lower cost while reallocating funds to nutrition, conservation, specialty crops such as apples and cherries from Washington State, and rural development. Although this amendment did not pass, Smith will continue to push for fiscally responsible farm policies that ensure a nutritious and affordable food supply for all Americans. The Senate has not yet passed its version of the legislation. Once it does, differences between the two chambers must be worked out before it can be sent to the President, who must sign the legislation before it becomes law. Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns indicated the President may veto the bill if certain reforms such as tighter payment limits and lower subsidies for some crops are not adopted.
7.27.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted for the conference report for H.R. 1, a bill to implement the 9/11 Commission recommendations. The original version of the bill, passed on January 9, 2007, was the first legislation to pass under the new House Democratic leadership. The final conference report for H.R. 1 passed the House today by a vote of 371 to 41. “This bill increases security at our sea ports and airports. It improves information sharing between federal and local governments, in addition to foreign countries, to protect our homeland. It establishes a body to make sure civil liberties are protected. I was pleased to help pass this legislation today,” Smith said. “When the House passed the original version of this bill, I was concerned about the 100 percent air cargo and seaborne container screening requirements. I was pleased to see that the conference report includes provisions to delay these requirements should it be judged that adequate technology is not available or that the inspections regime adversely affects the flow of trade,” Smith added. If enacted, the conference report for H.R. 1 includes provisions that would: Require that all U.S.-bound cargo containers are screened before being loaded onto a U.S.-bound ship no later than July 1, 2012. Allows the implementation to be delayed by two years at a time if scanning technology is not available or would significantly impact trade. Require that 50 percent of cargo carried on passenger aircraft be screened within 18 months of enactment and 100 percent of cargo screen within 3 years. Provide $250 million per year for enhanced screening of checked baggage at airports. Provide $5.3 billion over 5 years to help high-risk urban areas prevent and respond to terrorism. Provide $1.6 billion over five years for states to improve interoperability emergency communication. Create a travel authorization system to collect information about individuals who seek to enter the U.S. under the visa-waiver program. Establish the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board as an independent agency. The bill now goes to the President to be signed into law.
7.27.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) yesterday voted for H.R. 3093, the fiscal year 2008 Departments of Commerce and Justice, and Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The bill includes provisions that restore needed funds for violent crime prevention and community development. The legislation also addresses the abuse of national security letters by the FBI. “This bill restores important funds for local law enforcement to address the growing violent crime epidemic and to relieve the increasing pressure being put on our local law enforcement agencies. We also fund key initiatives to help small businesses compete in the global marketplace,” Smith said. “I am especially pleased to have been able to obtain $950,000 for the Washington State Meth Initiative to help fight methamphetamine use in our state,” Smith added. H.R. 3093 provides $3.2 billion for State and Local Law Enforcement and Crime Prevention Grants, 53 percent more than the President requested. These programs were cut by $1.9 billion from 2001 to 2006. In 2006, the FBI reported that violent crime increased in 2005 and 2006. These funds include restored investment in programs to support local law enforcement, hire new police officers, and strengthen services to victims of domestic violence. The bill also includes $831.2 million for the National Institute of Standards and Technology Research to promote U.S. innovation and competitiveness. These funds will support technology development, help smaller U.S. manufacturers compete in international markets, and help pay for the construction of research facilities. H.R. 3093 also included language prohibiting the use of national security letters in contravention of the law. A recent report by the FBI’s Inspector General identified FBI abuses of its authority to review customer records of suspected foreign agents. The letters were inappropriately used to avoid regular procedures for obtaining access to these records. Smith announced that the following projects that will benefit the Ninth District of Washington also received funds: $1.1 million for an upgraded shared Automated Finger Imaging System (AFIS) for Pierce County, WA Sheriff’s Office and the City of Tacoma. $950,000 for the Washington State Meth Initiative $250,000 for the Nisqually Tribe of Washington’s Youth Justice Center $250,000 for the Rainier Communications Commission for the acquisition of wireless routers to enable the pilot testing of a regional backup communications network for public safety and emergency response purposes, facilitating more effective emergency communications across Pierce County.
7.24.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) tonight voted for H.R. 3474, the Departments of Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008. The bill passed the House of Representatives tonight by a vote of 268 to 153. The bill provides more than $107 billion for transportation infrastructure investments which are critical to economic development and growth. The President has threatened to veto the legislation because House Democrats rejected several cuts to national infrastructure investments proposed by the Administration. Funding restored by Democrats included mass transit, Amtrak, and community development programs. “Maintaining America’s aging highway and transportation systems is a vital component of our economic development. The President’s cuts would impede the movement of goods and services which ultimately increases the cost of doing business in the United States. I am pleased House Democrats restored these needed funds and voted to keep our economy going strong,” Smith said. Also included in the bill were funds for projects in the Ninth District of Washington: $14.076 million for Pacific Highway South Bus Rapid Transit between Sound Transit's Light Rail Station at 154th Street (north of SeaTac Airport) and the Federal Way Transit Center (near SeaTac Mall). Once complete, travel time saved between the locations could be reduced between 12 and 15 minutes compared to current conditions. This project is one of only four projects nationwide for which the Federal Transit Administration recommended funding under the Very Small Starts program in its 2008 New Starts Report to Congress. $500,000 to provide additional on and off access from I-5 in Federal Way, WA at SR-161/S 356th Street, alleviating safety and congestion issues. $150,000 for the Bethel School District to provide a community center in unincorporated Pierce County that will support seniors, family and youth. The bill must now be passed by the Senate and signed by the President before it can become law.
7.20.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) yesterday voted for the fiscal year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill, H.R. 3043. The bill includes provisions that will expand health care access and college affordability. H.R. 3043 passed by a vote of 276 to 140. “Last night, House Democrats passed fiscally responsible legislation that will help improve access to health care for 2 million Americans. This bill will make college more affordable. It will help improve our schools. And, it will provide needed funds for medical and educational initiatives in the Ninth District of Washington. I was pleased to support this measure and I commend my colleagues for passing it. The President should sign this bill,” Smith said. H.R. 3043: Expands access to health care for more than 2 million uninsured Americans. Invests in life-saving medical research by providing a $750 million increase for the National Institutes of Health. Makes college more affordable by increasing the maximum Pell Grant by an additional $390. This is the second such increase enacted by the Democratic Congress this year, with the previous increase raising the maximum grant by $260. Helps raise the achievement levels of America’s students by providing $2 billion more than the funds allocated for 2007 and $1 billion more than the President’s request for No Child Left Behind programs. Also included in the bill were the following funds for projects in the Ninth Congressional District of Washington: $200,000 for the Thurston-Mason County Medical Society’s Project Access for the uninsured $150,000 for an institute for environmental sustainability in the workforce at Clover Park Technical College $100,000 for facilities and equipment at Northwest Kidney Centers $100,000 for the facilities and equipment at Seattle Cancer Care Alliance $50,000 for after-school programs administered by Communities in Schools of Tacoma The bill must now be approved by the Senate and signed by President Bush before it becomes law; unfortunately, the Bush Administration has issued a veto threat over the cost of the bill. However, the legislation’s overall cost after adjusting for inflation and population is $2.9 billion below similar legislation passed by the Republican Congress and signed into law by President Bush in 2004.
7.18.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement in response to yesterday’s release of the National Intelligence Estimate (NIE), which stated that al-Qaeda has a safe haven in Pakistan and regenerated top leadership: “The National Intelligence Estimate released yesterday is the latest in a string of troubling reports of a rebuilding al-Qaeda working to strike American targets. “Specifically, the NIE states that al-Qaeda has a safe haven in the Pakistani Federally Administered Tribal Areas and that its leadership structure has regenerated. The estimate also explains that the terrorist group is using our occupation of Iraq to recruit new members and finance global operations. “These are troubling developments, and they indicate a key flaw in the Administration’s anti-terror strategy. The Administration has not adequately focused specifically on al-Qaeda and their top leadership. Instead we’ve spread our efforts across a broad range of terrorist groups and the conflict in Iraq. As a result, we have given al-Qaeda a chance to regenerate its central leadership and gain capabilities not seen since before 9/11. Our first priority has to be to target al-Qaeda’s top leaders and their organization, and our resources must be allocated accordingly. “Unfortunately, we are not adequately focusing our assets on al-Qaeda and their command structure. Currently we have a very high percentage our military assets focused in Iraq. It is essential that we refocus on the Afghanistan / Pakistan border and other crucial battlegrounds if we are to effectively protect Americans from terrorist attacks. “Recent news reports indicate that the peace agreement between local tribal leaders in Northwest Pakistan and the Pakistani government may have broken down. This could be an opportunity for us to work with the Pakistanis to go after our common extremist enemies, but first we have to gain the trust of the Pakistani people. The Pakistanis in this region face crushing poverty, and if we work with them to build a better society, we can both gain their trust and reduce the incentive for local populations to join groups like al-Qaeda and the Taliban. “The report also includes warnings about al-Qaeda’s use of modern communications technology to organize and proselytize. Earlier this year, the House Armed Services terrorism subcommittee, which I chair, heard similar warnings from expert witnesses that the Internet has become a crucial battleground in this struggle, and that if we do not treat it as such, we will not defeat these terrorists. The U.S. must improve its effort to monitor and counter these groups’ use of online communications.”
7.16.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted for S. 966, the Passport Backlog Reduction Act of 2007. The bill addresses the serious backlog of passport and related travel document applications caused by the 2004 intelligence overhaul law which required more secure documents for travel between the U.S., Bermuda, Canada and Mexico. The measure was passed by voice vote. At the beginning of this year, the Department of Homeland Security began requiring U.S. travelers reentering into the U.S. by air to present secure identification, such as a passport. This change resulted in skyrocketing numbers of qualifying document applications. The legislation passed by the House of Representatives today allows Foreign Service retirees to retain retirement benefits when they return to temporary work for the purpose of easing the document application backlog. “The push to require high-security documents for international travel sooner than was feasible for a smooth implementation has seriously snarled our citizens’ ability to travel abroad. The measure we passed this evening aims to rectify a problem affecting the summer travel of countless Americans by temporarily bringing already trained workers back into the system,” Smith said. The measure passed under a suspension of the rules, a process which allows for the expedited consideration of legislation which must then be approved by a vote of two-thirds of the House. The Senate has already approved their version of this bill, which must be signed by the President before it becomes law.
7.12.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today made the following remarks in the U.S. House of Representatives in reference to H.R. 2956, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. The bill would require a responsible redeployment of U.S. troops beginning within 120 days of enactment and ending by April 1, 2008. The legislation also requires the President to publicly justify the post-redeployment missions for the U.S. military in Iraq and the minimum number of troops necessary to carry out those missions. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Listening to this debate, I think the biggest problem is that the proponents of the stay-the-course plan in Iraq continually, completely equate the battle in Iraq with the battle against al-Qaeda, with the terrorists that struck us, and the two are not the same. “In fact we heard from Ms. Ros-Lehtinen that Iraq is but one of the battlefields where we are fighting against al-Qaeda and that is absolutely true. And yet we have 80 percent of our assets in Iraq. Meanwhile report after report comes out that al-Qaeda is strengthening themselves in Afghanistan and Pakistan where we don’t have enough resources. “Our argument is not for retreat. Our argument is that there is a better way to fight al-Qaeda and those who threaten us than to put all of our assets in Iraq while not paying enough of attention to where al-Qaeda is really strengthening itself. “In Iraq, it is primarily a power struggle in which al-Qaeda is a player. It is not primarily about al-Qaeda’s threat against the U.S. In Afghanistan with the Taliban and al-Qaeda [it is] a very different story. Our troops, our assets, the lives and talents of the people of this country are tied down in Iraq fighting what is primarily a civil war instead of better fighting al-Qaeda. “In fact our presence in many ways has strengthened al-Qaeda. Syria would never be an ally of al-Qaeda but for our presence in Iraq. Al-Qaeda wants to topple their regime, and yet to defeat us in Iraq they have come up with an alliance of convenience. There is a better way to fight al-Qaeda. “We are here today to change course in Iraq because it is a better way to protect this country, and timing isn’t the issue. “Six months ago, when the President began the escalation in Iraq, these facts were basically the same as they are today. “In September these facts will be basically the same as they are today. “We cannot wait if we are going to have the best possible strategy to defeat al-Qaeda, the group that threatens us most, instead of getting bogged down in this civil war, in the tribal differences that are present in Iraq. “We want to win, not to quit. This is a better way to do it.”
7.10.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement on the President’s failed Iraq escalation, which was announced six months ago today: “Six months ago, President Bush announced a plan to increase troop levels in Iraq with assurances that we would hold the Iraqi government to a set of concrete benchmarks for progress. Today, press reports indicate that the administration’s upcoming report will say that Iraq’s government has failed to achieve a single benchmark. “We are spending $10 billion a month on a strategy that has failed to achieve its stated goals. Further, it has magnified the terrorist threat to our country, providing al-Qaeda fertile ground for recruitment, training, and financing. We cannot continue on the abysmal course the President has charted in Iraq. “Over the coming weeks, Congressional Democrats will continue to pressure holdout Republicans to end their misguided support of the President’s failed Iraq policies. I encourage my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to join Democrats in our efforts to chart a new direction in Iraq that includes the redeployment of our forces in the region.”
7.4.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement in response to President Bush’s decision to commute I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby’s sentence: “I am disappointed by President Bush’s decision to commute Mr. Libby’s sentence. Libby was, like other felons, convicted by a jury of his peers, and the laws against perjury should apply equally to everyone. Thousands of other convicted felons, just like Mr. Libby, have arguments that their convictions were unjust or should be overturned for some reason. We have an appeals process to deal with those claims. Mr. Libby should not get special treatment just because he has been loyal to President Bush.”
7.4.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) issued the following statement on Independence Day 2008: “On Independence Day, we are mindful of those who serve or served in our Armed Forces. We honor the sacrifices that they and their families make in defense of our country. I have had many opportunities at home and overseas to witness their devotion to duty, their professionalism, and their courage in the midst of the conflicts in which we have asked them to fight. “Here in Washington’s 9th Congressional District we are especially proud of and thankful for the service of our Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base service members. Everyone should take a moment today to be thankful that these brave men and women are willing and ready to stand between our liberty and the enemies that threaten them.”
6.30.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement in response to the attempted terrorist attack on Scotland’s busiest airport in Glasgow. Today's attack followed the discovery yesterday of two cars laden with explosives in London, and authorities in the United Kingdom believe the two incidents are linked. Smith chairs the terrorism subcommittee on the House Armed Services Committee. “These attempted attacks in the U.K. illustrate the challenge we face in the fight against terrorist networks: these groups are not just in Iraq or Afghanistan. We have to be ready to pursue them wherever they may take root and stop them before they strike. But most importantly, we have to actively confront the ideology that drives people to plan and execute these attacks against us and our allies.”
6.22.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) applauded passage of H.R. 2764, the fiscal year 2008 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill. Smith voted for the bill, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday by a vote of 241 to 178. “The House voted yesterday to live up to our moral obligations as the most powerful and prosperous nation on the planet. The funds in this bill will save lives, slow the spread of disease and help developing countries get on their feet. Further, these funds will aid our efforts to undercut drug traffickers and terrorists in Afghanistan,” Smith said. H.R. 2764 provides $34.2 billion in discretionary spending for fiscal year 2008. The bill makes key investments including: $210.5 million for critical humanitarian and peacekeeping programs in Darfur, 90 percent more than the President’s request. $5.1 billion for HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and care programs around the world, which is 33 percent more than fiscal year 2007 and 13 percent more than the President’s request. This includes $550 million for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria, which President Bush failed to request. $1.7 billion for development assistance, 15 percent more than fiscal year 2007 and 67 percent more than the President’s request. These funds include $750 million in grants to organizations that support basic education programs, an increase of $200 million from the FY 2007 House-passed bill. The bill also provides $300 million for safe water programs, including $100 million for a new initiative requiring the Administration to develop a strategy to help high-priority countries address their water issues. More than $1 billion for reconstruction and counter-narcotics efforts in Afghanistan. These funds include $235 million in counter-narcotics funding and $75 million for programs specifically related to helping women. $214 million for trade capacity building to help developing countries take advantage of international trade opportunities, $127 million more than the President requested. $50 million specifically for the prevention, control and treatment of extremely drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB). The first reported outbreak of XDR-TB killed 52 of 53 infected patients, with half dying within 16 days of their diagnosis. XDR-TB made U.S. headlines when an infected man from Georgia was able to reenter the country despite clear warnings to border entry points not to allow him to do so. H.R. 2764 must now be considered by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
6.12.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today applauded the veterans-related sections included in H.R. 2642, the fiscal year 2008 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. The bill passed by a vote of 409 - 2. “The conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan create new veterans every day. Our men and women are returning home with complex mental and physical wounds, and we must do more to help them. This bill provides the largest increase for Veterans Administration (VA) funding in history to make sure these honorable Americans are cared for when they return home.” Smith said. The passage of H.R. 2642 will, among other things, result in: The hiring of more qualified doctors and nurses to improve medical services to our veterans; Reduced waiting times for doctor appointments; and More to help veterans suffering from traumatic brain injury (TBI), Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), mental health care issues. H.R. 2642 includes: VA funding $6.7 billion above the fiscal year 2007 level. This increase surpasses the President’s request by $3.8 billion; Funds for more than 1,100 new claims processors to reduce the huge backlog of disability and other claims on behalf of veterans; Needed maintenance at VA health care faculties; $600 million more than the President requested for mental health, PTSD and Traumatic Brain Injury and makes five polytrauma centers and three Centers of Excellence for Mental Health and PTSD fully operational this year to care for those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, including those with TBI; Permission for the Department of Veterans Affairs to transfer up to $15 million for a joint program to improve access to care to ensure a seamless transition from the Defense Department to the VA, particularly for veterans suffering from TBI or PTSD; and Development and operational funds for a toll-free telephone and web-based hotline for veterans to report on deficiencies in VA medical facilities and care. The Senate must now consider similar legislation before the bill can be signed into law by the President.
5.24.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) released the following statement this evening after voting against the compromise version of the emergency war supplemental bill, which would fund the President’s military policies in Iraq through September: “This was an agonizingly difficult vote for me. I was forced to choose between two options when I supported neither. I support a phased withdrawal from Iraq over the course of the next year, leaving the much smaller number of troops necessary to train Iraqi forces and confront the threat posed by Al Qaeda in Iraq. I believe our occupation both makes it more difficult for Iraq to reach a political solution to their conflict and undermines our broader, global efforts to fight Al Qaeda, the ideology they espouse, and those who follow either or both. And it is painfully clear at this point that U.S. troops in any number cannot stop or even significantly reduce the violence in Iraq. We should be more focused on confronting Al Qaeda in Afghanistan, Pakistan, throughout Africa and all the other places where they are attempting to gain power. This is an effort that would mainly involve diplomacy, and a comprehensive effort to defeat this dangerous ideology by understanding local cultures and winning the battle of ideas. In certain situations and locations, it also involves small scale military actions. The broader efforts that I’m describing are in fact undermined by our presence in Iraq. We should not have nearly 200,000 U.S. troops bogged down in the middle of a civil war in Iraq, occupying a Muslim country and further inflaming the already tense relationship between the Muslim world and the West. I have voted for bills that, to varying degrees, supported this vital new direction in Iraq several times. The President vetoed one such bill, the Senate did not pass another, and a third did not get the votes to pass the House. I do not, however, believe that we should cut off funding for our troops while the President stubbornly insists on keeping them there. There is an enormous difference between the phased withdrawal described above, and a chaotic retreat driven by a lack of funding or a situation where our troops must continue to fight despite not having the resources they need. The big difference of opinion in this debate at this point is over when precisely our troops will begin to lack the resources they need if we in Congress have not passed this supplemental funding bill. Some have argued that the Pentagon has the legal power to borrow as much money as they need no matter what Congress does. Whether true or not I do not want to set the precedent that our military can go on fighting on borrowed money even if Congress stops appropriating money for whatever war is being fought. Even without this borrowing authority, most agree our military has adequate resources until mid-July without impacting military readiness. After that time, a lack of new funds could begin progressively to affect military readiness as bases in the U.S. would have to start cutting or delaying non-war related budget items – from equipment repairs to facilities upkeep – in order to fund operations in Iraq. So that is the choice this vote presented. Continue funding a horribly flawed policy or run the risk of leading the military to have to tighten its belt here at home. I ultimately decided to vote no on the legislation in order to keep the pressure on the President and his Republican supporters in Congress over the next several weeks. I believe we must do everything we can to change the course in Iraq, and Congress should keep pushing for that change as long as our troops won’t be harmed by the lack of funds. This vote is one more step in the ongoing debate regarding how best to redeploy our troops from Iraq – it is the latest, but not the final, say on this critically important issue. I fully expect this matter to come before the Congress again in the coming weeks and months. I will continue to work to ensure that our troops are not only protected but also able to exit Iraq quickly and safely.”
5.17.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted for H.R. 1585, the fiscal year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 397 to 27. Smith chairs the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, which wrote the portion of the bill providing our special operations forces the tools and support they need to better fight al-Qaeda. “The Defense Authorization passed today finally addresses one of the worst outcomes of the President’s failed Iraq policies: the degradation of our military readiness. Our bill begins to address the training and equipment shortfalls faced by our Armed Services by providing more than $1.25 billion beyond the President’s request for readiness needs,” Smith said. Smith continued: “Our bill will also take better care of our service members and reservists. This bill will increase their pay, improve health care and reduce bureaucratic obstacles for wounded troops, and provide more reintegration assistance to Guard and Reserve members returning to civilian life. These changes are essential in light of the increased burden we ask our military families to bear on our behalf.” “The Defense bill also brings more accountability to the Administration’s Iraq policy. Congress will not simply take the President’s word that ‘we’re making progress.’ When this measure becomes law, the President will be required to submit detailed reports to Congress on progress – or the lack thereof – so that we can assess next steps for changing the direction in Iraq,” Smith said. The 2008 National Defense Authorization Act includes provisions that: Authorize $13.6 billion for the Army and $8.4 billion for the Marine Corps to address equipment reset requirements, $1 billion for National Guard and Reserve equipment from their unfunded requirements list and $250 million to address training shortfalls throughout the services; Authorize two significant initiatives to improve readiness: the Defense Readiness Production Board and the Strategic Readiness Fund, a $1 billion fund for critical readiness requirements identified by the Board; Require detailed reports from commanders in Iraq on the situation on the ground and contingency plans should the current strategy be deemed unsustainable; Provide $4.1 billion to purchase MRAP (mine-resistant, ambush-protected) vehicles to protect our troops against the single greatest cause of U.S. troop fatalities in Iraq – improvised explosive devices; Expand and strengthen counter-proliferation programs including the National Nuclear Security Administration nonproliferation programs and the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program; Empower the National Guard with enhanced authorities to fulfill its expanded role in the nation’s defense; Raise the military pay rate for all ranks by 3.5 percent; Reject the President’s proposed fee increases for TRICARE; and Establish a national program to provide better support National Guard and Reserve service members and their families as they reintegrate into civilian life. On Fighting Terrorism: “Our special operations forces lead the fight against terrorist groups in more than a dozen countries, and one of their most important missions is to establish relationships with local populations and prevent al-Qaeda from gaining a foothold in the first place. This bill will finally provide needed emphasis on U.S. Special Operations Command’s (SOCOM) vital indirect action work,” Smith said. “Our bill supports the continued expansion of our special operations forces, encourages SOCOM and the Defense Department to better address unconventional threats such as terrorist networks, and improves the Department??s ability to harness technological innovation.” The terrorism subcommittee’s $23.3 billion portion of the bill: Fully funds the President’s request for SOCOM; Funds or partially funds an additional five SOCOM priorities left unfunded in the President’s budget, including resources for advanced body armor and night vision equipment; Gives proper weight to SOCOM’s indirect action work and prioritizes unconventional warfare as the top priority of SOCOM; Requires SOCOM to present a plan to meet their unconventional warfare requirements and an annual report to Congress; Authorizes additional funds for “irregular warfare support” research and development activities, with the aims of better understanding jihadi strategies, improving our understanding of various cultures where terrorists seek a foothold, and developing creative countermeasures to frustrate terrorist groups; Establishes a demonstration program to help the Defense Department more rapidly and aggressively seek out cutting edge commercial information technologies and put them to use for our military; and Fully funds DARPA and the Defense Department’s basic research accounts. Internet Links to High-Resolution Photos*: Smith speaks to reporters at a press conference announcing the passage of H.R. 1585: http://www.house.gov/adamsmith/photos/hires_skeltonpresser3.jpg Smith, along with U.S. Rep. Solomon Ortiz (D-Texas) and House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (D-Mo.), explains the terrorism provisions in H.R. 1585: http://www.house.gov/adamsmith/photos/hires_skeltonpresser4.jpg * All photos provided courtesy of the Office of U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.). More information on the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee can be found at http://www.house.gov/list/press/wa09_smith/morenews/chair.html The bill must be approved by the Senate before the President can sign it into law.
5.10.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement on the bipartisan trade policy agreement reached late yesterday between Congress and the Administration. The agreement paves the way forward for trade pacts including the Peru and Panama Free Trade Agreements. “I have supported trade because of the economic benefits, but I have been concerned that we have not done enough to protect workers’ rights and the environment. Chairman Rangel and others have done a good job hammering out a good template for trade that addresses both of these issues. All parties to the negotiations should be commended for their patience and good-faith efforts to craft good trade policies,” Smith said. Under the agreement, free trade agreements currently pending will be altered to include important Democratic priorities, including provisions that will: Protect core labor standards; Preserve the environment; Speed the delivery of generic drugs; Empower U.S. state and federal governments to use labor standards and acceptable work and wage conditions as criteria for the approval of procurement contracts; Protect U.S. investors’ rights within the United States; and Assist workers and communities who lose jobs due to trade and technology through education and other benefits.
5.10.2007	Earlier this week, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) voted to support the House Armed Services Committee’s markup of the fiscal year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act. Smith chairs the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, which wrote the portion of the bill providing our special operations forces the tools and support they need to better fight al-Qaeda. “The Defense Authorization offered by the Democrats today finally addresses one of worst outcomes of the President’s failed Iraq policies: the degradation of our military readiness. Our bill begins to address the training and equipment shortfalls faced by our Armed Services by providing more than $1.25 billion for readiness needs,” Smith said. Smith continued: “Our bill would also take better care of our service members and reservists. This bill will increase their pay, improve health care and reduce bureaucratic obstacles for wounded troops, and provide more reintegration assistance to Guard and Reserve members returning to civilian life. These changes are essential in light of the increased burden we ask our military families to bear on our behalf.” “The Defense bill also brings more accountability to the Administration’s Iraq policy. Congress will not simply take the President’s word that ‘we’re making progress.’ When this measure becomes law, the President will be required to submit detailed reports to Congress on progress – or the lack thereof – so that we can assess next steps for changing the direction in Iraq,” Smith said. The 2008 Defense Authorization bill includes provisions that: Authorize $13.6 billion for the Army and $8.4 billion for the Marine Corps to address equipment reset requirements, $1 billion for National Guard and Reserve equipment from their unfunded requirements list and $250 million to address training shortfalls throughout the services; Authorize two significant initiatives to improve readiness: the Defense Readiness Production Board and the Strategic Readiness Fund, a $1 billion fund for critical readiness requirements identified by the Board; Require detailed reports from commanders in Iraq on the situation on the ground and contingency plans should the current strategy be deemed unsustainable; Provide $4.1 billion to purchase MRAP (mine-resistant, ambush-protected) vehicles to protect our troops against the single greatest cause of U.S. troop fatalities in Iraq – improvised explosive devices; Expand and strengthen counter-proliferation programs including the National Nuclear Security Administration nonproliferation programs and the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program; Empower the National Guard with enhanced authorities to fulfill its expanded role in the nation’s defense; Raise the military pay rate for all ranks by 3.5 percent; Reject the President’s proposed fee increases for TRICARE; and Establish a national program to provide better support National Guard and Reserve service members and their families as they reintegrate into civilian life. On Smith’s Terrorism Subcommittee Markup “Our special operations forces lead the fight against terrorist groups in more than a dozen countries, and one of their most important missions is to establish relationships with local populations and prevent al-Qaeda from gaining a foothold in the first place. This bill will finally provide needed emphasis on SOCOM’s vital indirect action work,” Smith said. “Our bill supports the continued expansion of our special operations forces, encourages SOCOM and the Defense Department to better address unconventional threats such as terrorist networks, and improves the Department’s ability to harness technological innovation.” The terrorism subcommittee’s $23.3 billion portion of the bill: Fully funds the President’s request for the Special Operations Command (SOCOM); Funds or partially funds an additional five SOCOM priorities left unfunded in the President’s budget, including resources for advanced body armor and night vision equipment; Gives proper weight to SOCOM’s indirect action work and prioritizes unconventional warfare as the top priority of SOCOM; Requires SOCOM to present a plan to meet their unconventional warfare requirements and an annual report to Congress; Authorizes additional funds for “irregular warfare support” research and development activities, with the aims of better understanding jihadi strategies, improving our understanding of various cultures where terrorists seek a foothold, and developing creative countermeasures to frustrate terrorist groups; Establishes a demonstration program to help the Defense Department more rapidly and aggressively seek out cutting edge commercial information technologies and put them to use for our military; Fully funds DARPA and the Defense Department’s basic research accounts; and Funds investment in energy storage and renewable energy technologies. More information on the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee can be found at http://www.house.gov/list/press/wa09_smith/morenews/chair.html The bill must be approved by the full House of Representatives and the Senate before the President can sign it into law.
5.10.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today voted in favor of the revised Iraq Accountability Act, which passed the House of Representatives tonight by a vote of 221 to 205. “We need a new direction in Iraq. The President has placed roughly 160,000 of our troops in a highly vulnerable position – refereeing a civil war – while the various factions in Iraq have not made adequate progress toward reconciliation. The needed political reconciliation among these groups will not happen until we make it clear to the Iraqis that our occupation is coming to an end,” Smith said. Immediately prior to the vote in favor of the Iraq Accountability Act, Smith voted for a measure to redeploy our service members even earlier – 9 months from the date of the bill’s enactment. Both measures would allow for the redeployment of our troops to allow them to focus on missions vital to our national security such as counterterrorism operations. Smith explained that his support for both measures stemmed from a continued concern that the Bush Administration’s failed policies in Iraq undermine our pursuit of al-Qaeda: “We have every indication that al-Qaeda is resurgent in Pakistan, that Bin Laden finds himself stronger than ever, and that until we direct our full attention to stopping the spread of these terrorist networks, the threat they pose to the United States will continue to grow,” Smith said. “Our current involvement in Iraq undermines our pursuit of al-Qaeda while giving extremists a rallying point. We need a new direction in Iraq so that we can better fight the spread of the terrorists who threaten us,” Smith explained. The revised Iraq Accountability Act: Fully funds our Armed Services over the next two-three months while holding President Bush and the Iraqi government accountable. The bill fences off $52.8 billion of the $95.5 billion provided to the Defense Department until released by subsequent legislation. To obtain the additional funds the President must submit a report to Congress by July 13 regarding the success of the Iraqi government in meeting security and political benchmarks. Then, within 7 legislative days after receiving the report in July, both the House and Senate would vote on whether to release the remaining defense funds. Provides additional funds not requested by the President for additional military health care needs and for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles. Funds improved military readiness. Provides $1.8 billion to meet veterans’ unmet health care needs.
4.24.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today announced he will vote for the conference agreement on H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. The agreement includes language that would set a goal for the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq by March 2008. Smith chairs the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee. “President Bush should sign this bill. A veto would signal a total rejection of the will of the American people and would further hamper our efforts to fight the spread of al-Qaeda. We will not stay in Iraq indefinitely. We must plan to redeploy our troops in Iraq,” Smith said. The conference agreement would appropriate $124.2 billion for emergency spending, the bulk of which will fund military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The measure includes a requirement that the President certify Iraq has met benchmarks for military and political progress. Most importantly, the conference agreement sets a goal of redeploying most U.S. troops from Iraq by March 2008. President Bush repeatedly threatened to veto any measure that includes language requiring redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq. Numerous polls and reports indicate a broad majority of Americans support such a timeline. “This measure, regardless of whether the President vetoes it, is hugely important. It is part of a process to pressure Republicans to abandon their open-ended commitment to refereeing a civil crisis in Iraq – a commitment which saps resources from the broader fight against terrorists and gives extremists a rallying point,” Smith explained. “If the President vetoes this bill and Republicans stand with him to prevent Democrats from overriding him, they will demonstrate that they are completely out of step with the American people. But more importantly, delaying a new direction in Iraq will further hamper our effort to contain the spread of al-Qaeda’s violent, totalitarian ideology,” Smith said.
4.24.2007	U.S. Reps. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.) today introduced the Medicaid Access Project through Information Technology (MAP IT) to lower health care costs. The bill promotes the modernization of health record systems to prevent medical errors and to increase instant access to medical information for patients and doctors. Specifically, MAP IT will allow for the creation of a demonstration project to provide a more modern, technology-based system for managing chronic disease for Medicaid recipients. “Our out-of-date health record system drives up costs. Under the current paper-based system, doctors and patients lack instant access to medical information, which leads to medical errors and inefficiency. Our pilot project would use efficient, updated technology to improve care quality for Medicaid patients and to decrease costs to states and the federal government,” Smith said. The project will give chronic disease patients and caregivers access to their medical records and to information about their disease. Patients will be able to communicate with health educators in a variety of ways. Patients will also be provided access to their Personal Health Record, allowing them to record and track their health information. Physicians and other caregivers will have access to updated treatment and status information for chronic disease patients and a virtual case management tool. “We are all worried about the rising costs of health care and now is the time to focus our efforts on using innovative technology to help meet our health care needs,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Health information technology has the potential to revolutionize the way health care is delivered and received. This pilot project will help reduce costs within Medicaid, empower patients with the necessary tools to manage their disease, and improve quality of care by reducing errors.” Without changes to our health care system, analysts predict Medicaid will bankrupt every state in as little as twenty years. By providing online access for managing chronic disease, states can significantly reduce Medicaid costs. An August 2005 study by the Institute for Public Policy and Economic Analysis at Eastern Washington University found that every dollar spent on technology-enabled disease management program saves up to ten dollars in medical and non-medical expenditures. In addition to cost-savings, the use of health IT ensures overall health care delivery is safe and more comprehensive. According to the Institute of Medicine, at least 1.5 million Americas are sickened, injured or killed each year by errors in prescribing, dispensing or taking medications. By allowing providers to access real-time data, doctors can treat patients with the most recent advancements in medicine and according to the best practices in medicine. Under the bill proposed by Smith and McMorris Rodgers, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will select at least four proposals to perform the demonstration projects from those submitted by states. The demonstrations would last for two years followed by an evaluation to determine the resulting cost savings.
4.19.2007	Photo: Congressional art contest winner Sam Kang is congratulated by U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) at the Tacoma Art Museum. The museum has been gracious enough to host the 9th District Congressional Art Contest for the past 3 years. Photo credit: Kate Lynch, Word and Picture Communications Co. U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today congratulated Sam Kang on winning this year's 9th District Congressional Art Competition. His piece is a pencil drawing entitled “Camel”. Kang is an eleventh grader of the Kennedy International Program at John F. Kennedy Memorial High School in Burien, Washington. Each year, members of the U.S. House of Representatives hold art competitions in their congressional districts. The contests feature paintings, drawings, and prints. Each member brings a winning entry back to Washington, D.C. to be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. "Kang is a wonderfully gifted artist, and I hope he’ll make the trip to Washington, D.C. to see his work displayed in the Capitol. I’m privileged to have been able to host this contest for the students of my district. The ability of our young artists to have their works showcased by the Tacoma Art Museum at such an early age is a great honor,” Smith said. "Sam will be a great fine artist. He has the desire, the skill, the personality and the creativity to amaze people with his art. His handling of graphite pencil in his award-winning ‘Camel’ is very sophisticated. He has developed a very distinct crosshatching style which is truly fascinating," John F. Kennedy High School art instructor Julie Blakemore-Quesnell said. Kang will be invited to travel to Washington, D.C. to see his artwork hung in the Capitol at the opening exhibition in June. Three roundtrip airline tickets were donated for the winner and guests to travel to attend the exhibition. In the past, representatives of the arts community participating in the exhibition included actors Tom Cruise, Dean Cain, Billy Baldwin and actress Sarah Jessica Parker. Kang will also receive a renewable $5,000 scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. The second place winner, Shiyu Chen from Annie Wright School and third place winner Stephanie Medeiros of Yelm High School will have the option of having their artistic entries displayed in Smith's Congressional office in Tacoma. The other top competitors also received prizes. Honorable mentions were given to Marina Merchenko, of Thomas Jefferson High School of Federal Way, Amber Zawislak of Yelm High School, and Laura Wise, of Mt. Rainier Lutheran High School.
4.18.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) and U.S. Rep. Thelma Drake (R-Va.) today offered H. Res. 305 to honor the 20th anniversary of the founding of the U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM). The resolution passed under suspension of House rules by voice vote. Smith chairs the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee on the House Armed Services Committee. Below are Smith’s remarks: “Mr. Speaker, I’m proud to work with Representative Drake to mark the 20th anniversary of founding of the Special Operations Command. “Congress established SOCOM on April 16, 1987 in response to the failure of the Desert One mission to rescue American hostages in Iran. We learned two main lessons from Desert One. First, we needed a better joint command structure; our military was too divided and did not work well together, due to a lack of interoperable equipment and a lack of familiarity and joint training among the various branches. Second, we lacked forces trained for these kinds of missions. The establishment of SOCOM was meant to address these shortcomings. “SOCOM has been a fabulous success. We have roughly 53,000 special operations personnel operating in more than 50 countries around the world, taking direct action to counter terrorists and working with local populations to prevent terrorists from taking root. “I am especially proud of the three special operations force components housed in the 9th District of Washington: the Army 1st Special Forces Group (Airborne) and the Army 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment (SOAR) – 4th Batallion at Fort Lewis and the Air Force 22nd Special Tactics Squadron at McChord Air Force Base. I’ve also been able to visit several other components of our special operations forces across the country and around the world, and they are doing a fantastic job. “Going forward, we need more special operations forces to fight the spread of the totalitarian ideology pushed by al-Qaeda and related groups. Consistent with the 2006 Quadrennial Defense Review, we will seek to grow SOCOM forces by 15 percent. We will not sacrifice quality for quantity, but we must have the capability to train more special operations forces to face complex national security challenges. “And, we must ensure proper emphasis on indirect action. Often when people think of special operations, they think of direct action against terrorists. But much of SOCOM’s mission involves less dramatic but essential work. Special operations forces are currently working in well over a dozen countries to prevent al-Qaeda and other organizations from taking root. They train locals to defend themselves and help local populations improve their living situations so that they are less susceptible to terrorist recruitment. “Getting to know local populations, learning the languages, becoming helpful to them – these steps are vital to preventing insurgencies and terrorist groups from taking hold. We recently heard from a special operations veteran who told us that the most helpful counter-terrorism tool his force brought with them in North Africa was a dentist. The population needed this service so badly that our providing it led to them working with us to root out terrorists in the area. This kind of work to win the hearts and minds of local populations is essential if we are to defeat the spread of al-Qaeda’s message across the globe. That’s why we in Congress must ensure that SOCOM is resourced and structured properly to sufficiently emphasize and effectively carry out this critical indirect work. “I want to thank the members from both parties on the terrorism subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee for their work to make sure our special operations forces have the tools they need to protect our country. I want to especially thank Ranking Member Mac Thornberry and Representative Thelma Drake for their hard work on this important resolution.”
4.12.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement on the Pentagon’s decision to extend Army deployments from 12 months to 15 months. Smith is chairman of the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee on the House Armed Services Committee. "This is hard news for our Fort Lewis soldiers and families. They should know how proud we are of their service. My office stands ready to help them in any way and I hope they and their families will contact me if we can be of any assistance. "They should also know that Congress is doing everything we can to get them the tools, equipment and training they need so they can finish their extended tour safely and come home to their loved ones."
3.23.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement after voting for H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health, and Iraq Accountability Act. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 218 to 212. “This bill is an important first step to get the President to change course in Iraq. The American people have made it absolutely clear they want a new direction, but the President wants ‘no strings attached’ funds so he can pursue the same failed policies in Iraq. The time has come to acknowledge that we will not stay in Iraq indefinitely. This bill provides a responsible blueprint for the redeployment of our troops to better fight the war on terror. “Our bill will also put pressure on the Iraqi government to meet the benchmarks the President enumerated months ago. It gives our leaders in the field leverage they need to force Iraqi politicians to commit to a just accommodation among the warring factions in Iraq. “I support this legislation, and I strongly believe it will help lead to a better course of action by our nation in Iraq and in the broader war against Al Qaeda and their violent totalitarian ideology.”
3.12.2007	On Friday, March 9, U.S. Reps. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) and Ellen Tauscher (D-Calif.) fought to change the Bush Administration’s flawed Iraq policy and provide Congress with a plan to responsibly redeploy our troops. Smith and Tauscher introduced a bill that would terminate the authorization for the use of force in Iraq and allow for a new vote on a different mission for our Armed Forces. In addition, it would require the President provide a plan for redeployment of our troops in Iraq and to step up political and diplomatic pressure to end the Iraq crisis and meet key Iraq Study Group recommendations. The Smith-Tauscher bill would: Terminate the existing authority for the use of force and allow for a new vote on the mission in Iraq; Require a plan from the Defense Department to redeploy our troops for a mission that includes counter-terrorism, force protection, and training Iraqi troops; Require the President appoint a Coordinator for Iraq Stabilization to organize regional cooperation to stabilize Iraq; and Tie funding for Iraqi security and reconstruction beginning in 2008 to the President’s certifying that the Iraqi government has met specific benchmarks they have committed to. “The situation in Iraq has changed since we first authorized the use of force against Saddam Hussein. We must alter our Iraq mission to one acceptable to the American people, but in order to do that, we need military planners to begin planning the redeployment of our forces. Our bill would allow us to set a new mission, force the Defense Department to craft a plan to redeploy our troops, and require the President engage in vigorous diplomacy to help settle the Iraq crisis,” Smith said. The Smith-Tauscher bill has the support of key House Democrats, including: Artur Davis (D-Ala.) Joseph Crowley (D-N.Y.) Jane Harman (D-Calif.) Smith and Tauscher chair subcommittees on the House Armed Services Committee, which is responsible for authorizing funds for our military. Smith chairs the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities. Tauscher chairs the Strategic Forces Subcommittee. “Our bill fits well with the supplemental appropriations measure introduced by House Democrats. This bill, however, focuses on the underlying authorization for the war, rather than the appropriation of money for it. Both are good first steps. We have to keep pressure on the President to change his failed Iraq policy,” Smith said.
3.6.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement in response to President Bush’s assertion that “if we fail in Iraq, the enemy will follow us home.” The President offered this false dichotomy in a speech today to the American Legion. “The President wants us to believe that his Iraq policy is the only thing keeping terrorists in check. Nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, the President’s flawed Iraq policy is feeding a fresh wave of terrorism across the globe. Following our invasion of Iraq, the number of terrorist attacks worldwide per year has grown more than 600 percent. The President’s flawed Iraq policy drains military and intelligence focus from the central front in the war on terror – the Pakistan/Afghan border – and it inspires terrorism worldwide,” Smith said. According to a study by Peter Bergen and Paul Cruickshank published on March 1, 2007: “The rate of terrorist attacks around the world by jihadist groups and the rate of fatalities in those attacks increased dramatically after the invasion of Iraq. Globally there was a 607 percent rise in the average yearly incidence of attacks (28.3 attacks per year before and 199.8 after) and a 237 percent rise in the average fatality rate (from 501 to 1,689 deaths per year). A large part of this rise occurred in Iraq, which accounts for fully half of the global total of jihadist terrorist attacks in the post-Iraq War period. But even excluding Iraq, the average yearly number of jihadist terrorist attacks and resulting fatalities still rose sharply around the world by 265 percent and 58 percent respectively.”
3.6.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today issued the following statement regarding reports of possible casework deficiencies at Fort Lewis’ Madigan Army Medical Center: “I’m very concerned about recent reports of neglect at Walter Reed and possible casework deficiencies at Fort Lewis' Madigan Army Medical Center. My staff and I are looking into these reports. In the meantime, I look forward to Thursday’s House Armed Services Committee hearing on these issues, where I hope to get some answers on behalf of my constituents. “It is absolutely essential that returning service members get the best possible medical care.”
3.6.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) and House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) today requested Secretary Robert Gates share with Congress any Defense Department contingency plans for the failure of the President’s troop increase strategy in Iraq. Smith chairs the terrorism subcommittee on the House Armed Services Committee. The Washington Post reported on March 5, 2007 that the Administration has “no … backup strategy for Iraq.” Last month Defense Secretary Robert Gates said he “would be irresponsible if I did not have people looking at contingencies in the event this does not work…” The letter states: “… whatever one’s opinion on the [troop surge] plan, it is critical that Congress have a realistic understanding of what our troops may need through the remainder of the year. This must include knowledge of alternative options and contingency plans for our military.” Full text below. Smith believes: backup plans are necessary to support our Armed Forces in the event that the President’s troop increase in Iraq fails to produce desired results; lack of such plans would indicate a serious failure on the part of the Defense Department; and Congress must have a realistic understanding of what our troops may need through this year. Further, Smith believes we must change the mission in Iraq to one acceptable to the American people and that benefits our national security interests. Military planners with proper expertise must begin planning for redeployment. Smith hopes this letter will help pressure the civilian leadership of the Defense Department to order military commanders to do so. Full text of Smith and Skelton’s letter to Defense Secretary Gates: Dear Secretary Gates: As the new Secretary of Defense, you have been tasked with helping bring greater stability to what has become an increasingly turbulent Iraq. We acknowledge the enormity of that challenge and seek to assist you in every way possible. As such, we believe it is important to identify the alternatives to the President’s current plan for Iraq. In your testimony before the House Armed Services Committee in February, you indicated that the Department was preparing military contingency plans in the event that the troop increase plan does not yield results in the next few months. We write to formally request that the Department of Defense share with the Committee the range of contingencies under consideration and discuss with us the possible options for dealing with them. As you may know, we disagree with the President’s decision to increase U.S. combat forces in Baghdad by over 21,000 troops. But whatever one’s opinion on the plan, it is critical that Congress have a realistic understanding of what our troops may need through the remainder of the year. This must include knowledge of alternative options and contingency plans for our military. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request and for your continued service to the country. Sincerely, Ike Skelton (D-MO) Chairman, House Armed Services Committee Adam Smith (D-WA) Chairman, House Armed Services Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities
3.2.2007	U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-WA) and U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) took steps this week to require the President of the United States to create a strategy to combat extreme poverty and to report to Congress on his progress. Smith reintroduced his Global Poverty Act, H.R. 1302, late yesterday in the U.S. House of Representatives. On Friday, Cantwell offered the bill as an amendment to the Senate version of the 9/11 bill, which the Senate is considering this week. “Poverty grips nearly half of the world’s population, and 1.1 billion people live in extreme poverty, meaning they scrape by on less than a dollar a day. This bill will take scattered, unfocused U.S. policies for addressing global poverty and help forge them into a comprehensive approach that meets our moral obligations,” Smith said. Smith first authored the original Global Poverty Act in 2005 and reintroduced H.R. 1302 as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. U.S. Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-AL) again joined Smith as the lead Republican sponsor of the legislation in the 110th Congress. Cantwell introduced similar legislation on Friday as an amendment to the Senate’s 9/11 bill. The 9/11 Commission report includes in its recommendations creating “a comprehensive strategy to counter terrorism should include economic policies that encourage development, more open societies, and opportunities for people to improve the lives of their families and enhance prospects for their children.” Cantwell is working to have the amendment pass as part of the Senate’s comprehensive bill. “Millions of men, women and children throughout the world live in severe poverty, suffering from malnutrition and starvation,” said Cantwell. “Unfortunately, this global poverty creates conditions that give rise to terrorist breeding grounds. If we’re going to implement the full recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, we must do it while addressing the national security risks extreme poverty creates and implement a real plan to combat poverty on a global scale.” The Global Poverty Act: Declares it official U.S. policy to promote the reduction of global poverty, the elimination of extreme global poverty, and the achievement of the U.N. Millennium Development Goal of cutting extreme global poverty in half by 2015; Requires the President to develop and implement a comprehensive strategy to carry out that policy; Includes guidelines for what the strategy should include--from aid, trade, and debt relief, to working with the international community, businesses and NGOs, to ensuring environmental sustainability; Requires that the President’s strategy include specific and measurable goals, efforts to be undertaken, benchmarks, and timetables; and Requires the President to report back to Congress annually on progress made in the implementation of the global poverty strategy. During the 109th Congress, several key nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) supported Smith’s bill, including Bread for the World, CARE, the Population Institute, Mercy Corps, RESULTS, and Save the Children. Several faith groups also endorsed the bill during the last Congress, including the Episcopalian Church USA, the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America, Micah Challenge USA, Lutheran World Relief and United Methodist Church’s General Board of Church and Society. Smith anticipates continued support among groups concerned with global poverty in the 110th Congress. Facts on Global Poverty: 2.7 billion people live on less than $2 per day. 1.1 billion people live in extreme poverty (less than $1 a day). More than 1 billion people lack access to clean drinking water. Smith’s bill addresses the first of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), reducing by half the proportion of people worldwide who live on less than $1 per day--extreme global poverty. More on the MDGs can be found at: http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/ Press Contacts: Derrick Crowe (Smith): (202) 225-6902 cell Elizabeth Ferranti (Cantwell): (202) 224-8277
3.1.2007	U.S. Reps. Adam Smith (D-WA), John Lewis (D-GA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD) today introduced the High Performance Buildings Act, to encourage communities to build sustainable, energy-efficient buildings to lower energy costs and protect the environment. The bill encourages communities to include sustainable development in their strategic housing plans and to provide grants to non-profit groups to increase sustainable development in low-income neighborhoods. Further, the bill establishes an institute at the National Science Foundation to research indoor environmental quality and its effect on human health and productivity, as well as to encourage the development and deployment of innovative energy-saving technologies. “In the United States, nearly two-thirds of our electricity and more than a third of our total energy is consumed by buildings. Sustainable technology and architecture in housing can help us fight global warming, lower energy costs and improve family health at the same time,” Smith said. “We are all simply stewards of this little piece of real estate we call planet Earth,” said Lewis. “And it is the responsibility of the federal government to encourage citizens to be good stewards with the hope that we can leave this earth a little bit cleaner and a little bit greener for our children and generations yet unborn. Green building is a powerful way to help preserve our natural legacy, and it helps us transform the process of civilization into one that does not injure but sustains the environmental integrity of this nation.” “The United States uses the most energy of any nation in the world, and buildings are the second largest consumer of energy in our country,” said Blumenauer. “We know that low income families are particularly vulnerable to rising energy costs. This legislation aims to help by driving down energy costs for families and small businesses, while also serving the environment." “This legislation will help bring down energy costs and make affordable housing even more energy efficient,” Gilchrest said. “It’s a great first step that brings together sustainable growth and environmental stewardship. We need to encourage and reward innovative technologies that reduce costs and impacts on the planet.” Thirteen other Members of Congress lent their support as original cosponsors of the High Performance Buildings Act: Lois Capps (D-CA) Russ Carnahan (D-MO) Norm Dicks (D-WA) Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) Alcee Hastings (D-FL) Jay Inslee (D-WA) Ed Markey (D-MA) George Miller (D-CA) Frank Pallone (D-NJ) C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) José Serrano (D-NY) Ellen Tauscher (D-CA) Several organizations endorsed the bill as it was introduced, including: American Public Health Association Enterprise Community Partners Global Green Local Initiatives Support Corporation National Center for Healthy Housing National Housing Conference Press Contacts Derrick Crowe (Smith): (202) 225-6902 Brenda Jones (Lewis): (202) 226-4673 Erin Allweiss (Blumenauer): (202) 225-4811 Catherine Bassett (Gilchrest): (410) 749-3184
3.1.2007	U.S. Reps. Adam Smith (D-WA), John Lewis (D-GA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD) today introduced the High Performance Buildings Act, to encourage communities to build sustainable, energy-efficient buildings to lower energy costs and protect the environment. The bill encourages communities to include sustainable development in their strategic housing plans and to provide grants to non-profit groups to increase sustainable development in low-income neighborhoods. Further, the bill establishes an institute at the National Science Foundation to research indoor environmental quality and its effect on human health and productivity, as well as to encourage the development and deployment of innovative energy-saving technologies. “In the United States, nearly two-thirds of our electricity and more than a third of our total energy is consumed by buildings. Sustainable technology and architecture in housing can help us fight global warming, lower energy costs and improve family health at the same time,” Smith said. “We are all simply stewards of this little piece of real estate we call planet Earth,” said Lewis. “And it is the responsibility of the federal government to encourage citizens to be good stewards with the hope that we can leave this earth a little bit cleaner and a little bit greener for our children and generations yet unborn. Green building is a powerful way to help preserve our natural legacy, and it helps us transform the process of civilization into one that does not injure but sustains the environmental integrity of this nation.” “The United States uses the most energy of any nation in the world, and buildings are the second largest consumer of energy in our country,” said Blumenauer. “We know that low income families are particularly vulnerable to rising energy costs. This legislation aims to help by driving down energy costs for families and small businesses, while also serving the environment." “This legislation will help bring down energy costs and make affordable housing even more energy efficient,” Gilchrest said. “It’s a great first step that brings together sustainable growth and environmental stewardship. We need to encourage and reward innovative technologies that reduce costs and impacts on the planet.” Thirteen other Members of Congress lent their support as original cosponsors of the High Performance Buildings Act: Lois Capps (D-CA) Russ Carnahan (D-MO) Norm Dicks (D-WA) Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) Alcee Hastings (D-FL) Jay Inslee (D-WA) Ed Markey (D-MA) George Miller (D-CA) Frank Pallone (D-NJ) C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) José Serrano (D-NY) Ellen Tauscher (D-CA) Several organizations endorsed the bill as it was introduced, including: American Public Health Association Enterprise Community Partners Global Green Local Initiatives Support Corporation National Center for Healthy Housing National Housing Conference Press Contacts Derrick Crowe (Smith): (202) 225-6902 Brenda Jones (Lewis): (202) 226-4673 Erin Allweiss (Blumenauer): (202) 225-4811 Catherine Bassett (Gilchrest): (410) 749-3184
2.27.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) endorsed a plan to reduce abortion rates in the United States by becoming an original cosponsor of HR 1074, the Reducing the Need for Abortions and Supporting Parents Act. The bill is designed to help prevent unintended pregnancies and to support pregnant women, thereby reducing the need for abortions. H.R. 1074 was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives on February 16, 2007. “While we must protect a women’s right to choose, we also need to take necessary steps to make sure that women have access to critical services so they make that choice less often,” Smith said. H.R. 1074 includes provisions to: Mandate family planning services and supplies under State Medicaid programs Require states set the eligibility level for family planning at least to the level used to determine eligibility for pregnancy-related services Increase funding of Title X, the family planning program that provides a broad range of effective and acceptable family planning methods and related preventive health services Provide grants to states as incentives for reducing teen pregnancy as well as unique demonstration grants to reduce teen pregnancy Reauthorize after-school programs to reduce teen pregnancy Cover pregnant women under SCHIP Eliminate pregnancy as a pre-existing condition for health insurance providers Make the adoption tax credit permanent and increase the credit from $10,000 to $15,000 Increase funding of our Women Infants and Children (WIC) program Provide $540 million additional resources for the discretionary portion of the portion of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Require counseling in federally-funded homes for pregnant women and parenting women Identify and treat pregnant women and new mothers who are victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault or stalking Smith hopes to have the opportunity to vote for H.R. 1074 in the full House of Representatives in the near future.
2.16.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) voted today in favor of a House resolution opposing President Bush’s plan to deploy more than 20,000 additional U.S. combat troops to Iraq. The resolution, which also pledged the House’s continued support for the troops in Iraq, passed by a bipartisan vote of 246 to 182. Smith spoke in favor of the resolution on the House floor yesterday. The following are his remarks as prepared for delivery: “It has been nearly four years since the war in Iraq began—four-and-a-half since President Bush and his team in the White House started the effort to launch our nation on the path to this war. We learned a lot during that time frame, but two things stand out. First, the war effort has failed to achieve the outcome the President hoped for, instead creating problems he clearly felt would not come to pass. Even he admitted that he is dissatisfied with the way the war has gone. Second, at every step along the way, beginning with the way the President got us into the war, right up to the President’s latest plan to once again increase the number of U.S. troops in Baghdad, President Bush and his administration made mistake after mistake—failing to an almost incomprehensible level to learn from past errors or to demonstrate even a modest level of competence in prosecuting this war. Countless books from all points on the political spectrum lay out in painful detail all the mistakes this administration made in Iraq. "It is way past time for this Congress to stand up and say enough. We disapprove of what President Bush is doing in Iraq. "But our friends on the other side of the aisle claim that such a statement in meaningless. This is an astounding assertion. The United States House of Representatives—the elected voice of the people of our nation—stating clearly and on the record how they feel about the single most important policy issue of our time is meaningless? This opinion, expressed by the minority party, perhaps explains the utter lack of oversight and accountability that they employed when they were in charge—standing by and acting as mere cheerleaders for the President’s actions in Iraq as he made mistake after mistake. The other side of the aisle at least has a consistent record of believing that the opinion of Congress, a body our Constitution set up as a coequal branch of government with the Executive, is meaningless. "As much as I disagree with this conclusion as to the proper role of Congress in expressing its opinion on the Iraq War, I do understand this initial reluctance to pressure President Bush to change course. In a time of war we all want to stand behind our Commander–in-Chief as a first option, and the powers of the presidency make it difficult for Congress to, in a clear-cut straightforward manner, direct the President in the conduct of war. But the President’s record of mistakes in Iraq makes it clear we can no longer cling to this first option, and, difficulties notwithstanding, the cost of continuing down the same path the President has been pursuing in Iraq has reached the point where Congress must at least try to force a change in direction. "This effort should logically begin with a clear statement from the House that we disapprove of the way the President is conducting the war in Iraq. That is what this resolution does. With this vote members can no longer hide behind, “on the one hand, but then again on the other” statements. We can all mutter about things we don’t like in Iraq, but an official on the record vote is required to make that disapproval clear. Do you support the way President Bush is conducting the war in Iraq? Yes or no. "And make no mistake about it the President’s plan to increase the number of U.S troops in Baghdad represents no change in policy. It is stay the course, more of the same. In the last year we made large increases in the number of our troops in Baghdad twice already. Both times violence went up in the city, and as we have begun the current increase in troops that violence has once again increased. The lesson should be clear at this point--United States military might will not stop or even reduce the violence in that city. "Listening to the arguments against this resolution helps to understand why our President insists on making some of the same mistakes over and over again in Iraq. We are told that our fight in Iraq is a clear-cut battle against the same type of Al Qaeda-backed extremists who attacked our nation on 9/11 and that we are defending a worthy Iraqi government against these evil forces. If this were true, I would support whatever increase in troops was necessary to defeat that evil force. "But it is not even close to true—it is instead a dangerous attempt to paint a black and white picture on a situation that is far, far more complex. Baghdad is caught in a sectarian civil war. Both Shia and Sunni militias are battling each other as well as United States forces and the Iraqi government. It is a complex web of frequently changing alliances and interests that makes it impossible for our troops to separate good guys from bad guys. This is why our troops cannot stop or even reduce the violence. And the Maliki government we are being asked to support spends as much time acting like they are supporting the Shia side of the civil war as they do acting like they want to bring Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds together to form a stable Iraq. "Al Qaeda is in Iraq and we should continue to target them, but that effort will require a far, far smaller U.S. military presence than we have there today. Currently we are expending an enormous amount of resources in Iraq, most of which is going towards putting our forces in the middle of a chaotic civil war where our efforts do not advance and may even retard our fight against Al Qaeda. That massive military commitment reduces our ability to pursue Al Qaeda in the dozens of other nations where they have influence—most glaringly in Afghanistan and Pakistan. "This larger, more important fight is not solely or even primarily military. Diplomacy and other efforts to move disaffected Muslim populations away from joining Al Qaeda are a huge part of our battle, and we need to enhance those efforts. But we can’t, because we’re hamstrung both by a lack resources - financial and strategic – that are tied down in Iraq, and because our open-ended occupation of Iraq continues to undermine America’s standing in the world. "Instead of sending more troops to Baghdad the United States policy in Iraq should be to instruct our military leaders there to put together plans to as quickly and responsibly as possible reduce the number of U.S. troops in Iraq. We need our troops to focus on Al Qaeda and its supporters, not to be bogged down in a sectarian civil war that is only tangentially related to the larger fight against Al Qaeda. "The first, critical step in this process of changing our policy in Iraq is this resolution. Congress must make its disapproval of the President’s policy in Iraq clear and on the record.”
2.8.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today announced guidelines for his Ninth District Congressional Art Contest. Students in grades nine through 12 who reside in the Washington’s Ninth Congressional District may submit entries between March 1 and March 23. Entries should be sent to Smith’s district office at 3600 Port of Tacoma Rd, Suite 106, Tacoma, WA 98424. Artwork should be supplied with a pre-cut mat; frames are not necessary. Pieces must be no larger than 30 x 30 inches when framed. All art must be able to be framed to the 30 x 30 inches size limitation to be considered. The winning entry will be framed by a sponsor for display in a ten-month exhibit in the U.S. Capitol Building. In addition, a major airline sponsor will provide the winners and two guests round trip airfare to travel to Washington D.C. to attend the national reception in June. If students have no art teacher or are home schooled, a parent or guardian must sign the originality certification to ensure that the art entry is an original work not copied from, nor does it include, any other person’s copyrighted work. The top 40 entries will be displayed at Tacoma Art Museum from April 6 through April 22. Adam Smith’s Congressional Art Contest reception will be held Saturday, April 14 at 1:00 p.m. at the Tacoma Art Museum Classroom. Tacoma Art Museum is located at 1701 Pacific Avenue, Tacoma, Washington 98402 Guidelines and registration forms are posted www.house.gov/adamsmith and distributed to high schools. Those interested in more information should email tina.johnson@mail.house.gov.
2.8.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) yesterday voted for H.R. 365, the Methamphetamine Remediation Act, a bill to help communities clean up methamphetamine labs and the toxic mess they leave behind. The bill requires the Environmental Protection Agency develop health-based guidelines to help state and local authorities clean up former meth lab sites. The bill passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 426 to 2. “Methamphetamine use is declining in Washington State, but our communities still have to deal with the toxic residue from meth labs,” Smith said. “Unfortunately, meth labs are found often in residential settings, so it’s vital that the EPA develop guidelines for proper cleanup to protect Washington families.” In addition to establishing health-based meth lab cleanup guidelines, the bill would also: Direct the National Institute of Standards and Technology to consult with EPA in developing technologies to detect meth labs, emphasizing in field test kits for law enforcement. Require the National Academy of Sciences to study the long-term health impacts of meth exposure on first-responders and on children taken from meth lab sites. According to a 2006 National Drug Threat Survey of state and local law enforcement agencies across the nation, meth was named most often as the greatest drug threat in communities. The National Drug Intelligence Center said in 2005 that “the production, transportation, distribution, and abuse of methamphetamine” comprise the primary drug threat to the Pacific Region. The U.S. Senate must now consider H.R. 365 before it can be signed into law by the President.
2.6.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today issued the following statement regarding President Bush’s budget request for fiscal year 2008: “The President’s budget request again hides the true cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. While the budget contains war costs for the coming year, it discontinues funding in 2009. The President has said ending the war in Iraq is a decision he’ll leave to another President, and he is increasing troop levels in Baghdad. It is clear he believes his strategy will keep us in Iraq well beyond 2009. President Bush is not being honest with the numbers. “President Bush wants to slash funds for Medicare, Medicaid, education, and environmental protection to pay for tax breaks for multi-millionaires. This budget throws even more help to those who don’t need it and cuts the safety net from under those who need help most. “Congress has a lot of work to do to fix the problems in the President’s budget, and we’re ready to go to work. Democrats and members of the NewDem Coalition in particular will respond to this request with a progressive, pro-growth alternative to benefit all Americans and win the fight against terrorists without squandering more taxpayer dollars on failed strategies.”
1.31.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today voted for House Joint Resolution 20, a continuing resolution to provide funds for the federal government for fiscal year 2007. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 286 to 140. Smith issued the following statement: “Today the House had to make difficult choices to clean up the mess Republicans made last year when they failed to pass nine of 11 appropriations bills to fund the United States government. While not perfect, this continuing resolution will allow us to move past the irresponsibility of the last Congress and actually function as a governing body with oversight responsibilities over the President’s impending budget proposal for next year. “Those in the minority party today complained of a closed process. I understand their concern, but much of it seems to come from a case of selective memory on the part of House Republicans. Over the last ten years, the House has considered 75 continuing resolutions and all of them were considered under a closed process with no amendments. Further, Republicans had an entire year to provide input into this budget when they were in control, but they instead walked away from their responsibility. “The resolution was written with input from Republicans in both houses of Congress. This process is the only way to give the Senate time to consider this legislation to prevent a government shutdown. “Today’s continuing resolution is an effort to make the best of a bad situation and perhaps the only feasible way to clean up the Republican mess. This measure has been stripped of earmarks and funds critically important priorities like Veterans Affairs, Defense Department housing, and research at the National Institutes of Health. Also, it freezes congressional pay until the American people get their minimum wage hike, and it will allow us to move on to the President’s budget and exercise some real oversight for the first time in years.”
1.17.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) today voted to make college more affordable by halving the interest rate on subsidized student loans for undergraduates over the next five years. When fully phased in, the bill cuts the interest rate from 6.8% to 3.4%. The measure cuts the interest rate in half in five steps: from 6.8% to 6.12% in 2007; 5.44% in 2008; 4.76% in 2009; 4.08% in 2010; and 3.4% in 2011. The House passed the bill this afternoon by a vote of 356 to 71. “In Washington State, there are 47,631 four-year college students with subsidized student loans who all would benefit from this bill. Once fully phased in, the bill would provide $4,671 in savings to our state’s average four-year college student starting school in 2011 with subsidized student loans over the life of their loans,” Smith said. “Puget Sound’s economy depends on having a highly-skilled and well-educated workforce. Making college more affordable is key to our remaining strong in the face of an increasingly competitive global economy. We must do everything possible to address rising costs so that no qualified student is prevented from going to college because of the price,” Smith added. “Cutting interest rates on student loans is only the first step Democrats will take to make college more affordable. Later this year, House Democrats will also introduce legislation aimed at increasing the maximum Pell Grant scholarship and take other important steps to reduce the financial barriers to a college education,” Smith said. The bill is fully paid for by making modest reductions in certain lender and guaranty agency subsidies in order to make the student loan program more efficient and effective for students and for American taxpayers. This bill is supported by dozens of organizations, including the American Council on Education, National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, American Association for State Colleges and Universities, American Association of Community Colleges, Alliance for Equity in Higher Education, Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities, College Board, College Parents of America, and the Institute for Higher Education Policy.
1.12.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today announced he was chosen by House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn (D-SC) to serve on the Whip Team for the 110th Congress. In this leadership role, Smith will help Clyburn gather support for the Democratic agenda. “House Democrats have already accomplished several pieces of our ‘100 Hours’ agenda, including broad ethics reforms and passage of bills to raise the minimum wage, implement several 9/11 Commission recommendations, and expand embryonic stem cell research. I’m excited about working with Majority Whip Clyburn’s whip team. I look forward to helping to pass the new majority’s agenda,” Smith said. “This is a great opportunity to make sure my constituents’ points of view are given even more consideration by the Democratic Caucus,” Smith added. The word “whip” is a British term derived from the fox-hunting position “whipper-in,” the rider who kept fox hounds gathered behind their mission. The whip’s job in Congress is to gather support for legislation when it comes to the floor for a vote. The Democratic Caucus relies on the whip team to deliver votes to pass its agenda. Smith’s selection for the Whip Team is the latest of several developments that will help him represent his constituents even more effectively in Congress. Earlier this week, Smith was named chairman of the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee. He also secured a post on the Air and Land Forces Subcommittee. Both subcommittees are part of the larger House Armed Services Committee.
1.11.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today issued the following statement on H.R. 3, a bill to expand federal funding for embryonic stem cell research. The bill passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 253 to 174. “More than 70 percent of Americans support stem cell research. House Democrats promised to expand funding for this potentially life-saving and life-changing science. I’m pleased to report that in the first 100 hours of the 110th Congress, we made good on our promise. “Local institutions like the Fred Hutchison Cancer Research Center and the University of Washington could benefit from passage of this bill, so I hope we can get it to the President’s desk quickly. President Bush should listen to the will of the people and sign it without delay.”
1.11.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today announced he will chair the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee. Smith also secured a seat on the Air and Land Forces Subcommittee when committee members chose their assignments today. Smith’s seniority allowed him early picks from among the available positions. “Our special ops teams need the best tools. Our forces need protection from improvised explosive devices and other attacks. They need better technology faster. We need a new, better way forward in the global war on terror. These are the challenges I look forward to addressing as chairman of the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee,” Smith said. Smith added: “My new position on the Air and Land Forces Subcommittee will enhance my ability to support the critical work of our soldiers and airmen at Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base.” The Air and Land Forces Subcommittee has jurisdiction over all Army and Air Force acquisition programs, and over National Guard and Army and Air Force Reserve equipment. Background information on the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities follows. House Armed Services Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities The subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes: Department of Defense (DoD) counter-terrorism programs and counter-proliferation initiatives. Counter-terrorism. Refers to instruments of national power to execute the Global War on Terror. Examples include assistance to allied indigenous forces in the fight against terrorist groups and classified authorities for the use of Special Operations Forces (SOF) in foreign nations. Counter-proliferation.* Involves finding and destroying WMD. Much of counter-proliferation involves Special Operations Command (SOCOM) and the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA). Special Operations Command (SOCOM) acquisition programs and policy. Includes procurement and research, development, and testing and evaluation (RDT&E) accounts and an advisory role for SOCOM personnel policies. Force Protection Policy. Covers measures and policies to protect deployed troops, including counter-IED protection measures and prevention of attacks against overseas bases. Defense Advance Research Projects Authority (DARPA). Responsible for the early-stage R&D and “radical innovation” required to develop new technology for use by the military. DARPA’s charter is aimed at preventing “technological surprise.” Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA). Combat-support agency of the DoD. Analyzes and provides contingency plans for threats to the U.S., both homeland and abroad. Includes destroying WMD and developing technologies to reduce the threat of WMD. DoD Information Technology. Covers information systems, shared infrastructure (communications, computers, etc.), information assurance (computer security), and related technical activities. Science and Technology (S&T) policy. Includes DoD R&D funding for basic research as well as the more applied R&D. DoD Homeland Defense. Covers DoD roles in homeland security, disaster response, etc. Governs activities, policies and technology-sharing activities within the office of DoD’s Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense and U.S. Northern Command (Colorado Springs, CO). Allows for jurisdictional claim to many National Guard and other DoD border-related activities. Chemical-Demilitarization program. Destroys the U.S. stockpile of chemical weapons, as required under the Chemical Weapons Convention, ratified by the U.S. in 1997. DoD Chemical and Biological defense program. Provides chemical and biological defense capabilities. Executed within DARPA, DTRA and the U.S. Army. Related intelligence support related to Special Operations Forces (SOF). Classified. Includes both policies and programs within the purview of SOCOM and also those larger and DoD-wide national programs within the jurisdiction of the Strategic Subcommittee (as they affect SOF). *Counter-terrorism programs are distinct from non-proliferation programs, such as the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR) program, which focus on diplomacy and assistance to secure post-Soviet WMD.
1.10.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today issued the following statement after voting to increase the federal minimum wage to $7.25 an hour over two years. The bill, H.R. 2, passed overwhelmingly in the House of Representatives. “Millions of American families have had to get by on $5.15 an hour for the past decade. While I’m pleased that Washington State remains a national leader on this issue, it was important for the rest of the country to support workers with a higher federal minimum wage. This is another example of Congress rolling up our sleeves and getting to work during the first 100 hours of the 110th Congress.”
1.10.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today stated his opposition to a troop surge in Iraq. Smith met with President Bush and senior administration officials yesterday to learn more about the President’s proposal. “After the meeting I considered the President’s argument and reviewed the available information, including the Iraq Study Group Report. In the end, even though I gave the President’s argument due consideration, I don’t find it persuasive. A troop surge is not the answer in Iraq,” Smith said. President Bush told Smith and several of his Democratic colleagues yesterday that he planned to send roughly 20,000 troops to Iraq to support what he described as an “Iraq-led” operation to secure Baghdad. “I'm concerned that the President continues to view this as a military problem, not a political problem. We need to see from the Administration a real commitment to a broader diplomatic and political effort if we are to have any sense of minimal stability in Iraq,” Smith said. “And,” Smith added, “we also have to keep in mind that the global war on terror is exactly that: global. How does our commitment in Iraq affect our ability to prosecute the wider war?” Smith also expressed his concern that legislative measures to cut off funds for troops could put troops in Iraq more at risk: “I don’t want to put the troops in a political fight between Congress and the President, and Congress should carefully consider the consequences of any attempts to block funds for a surge. We cannot put our forces in Iraq at greater risk. But a troop surge is not the answer in Iraq.”
1.10.2007	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) yesterday voted in favor of H.R. 1, legislation to implement many of the remaining 9/11 Commission recommendations. Smith was pleased that House Democrats acted so quickly during their new majority in Congress to make Americans safer. The bill passed by a vote of 299 to 128. “Improving explosive detection capabilities and ensuring our emergency responders can effectively communicate with each other in an emergency are just two ways this bill will make the American people safer,” Smith said. “This bill will go a long way toward protecting us from -- and better managing the consequences of -- a terrorist attack.” Smith added, “The overall bill is a positive measure that will increase security, but I am concerned about the 100 percent air cargo and seaborne container screening requirement. I look forward to working out the difficulties with this issue when the bill is sent to conference." Earlier this week, 9/11 Commission Vice Chair Lee Hamilton stated, "The bottom line is that if this bill, H.R. 1, is enacted, funded and implemented, then the American people will be safer. ... The bill carries out the recommendations that [the Commission] has made." The bill included several steps intended to improve homeland security, including: Distributing state homeland security funding based on risk; Creating a stand-alone grant program to provide first responders with the type of equipment that allows them to communicate with each other during emergencies; Phasing in a requirement of 100 percent inspection of the cargo carried on passenger aircraft over the next three years; Phasing in a requirement of 100 percent scanning of U.S.-bound shipping containers over the next five years; Quickly accelerating the installation of explosive detection systems for checked baggage at the nation’s airports; and Improving explosive detection systems at passenger checkpoints at the nation’s airports. The bill also includes provisions to better prevent terrorists from acquiring WMD, such as: Strengthening the Cooperative Threat Reduction (“Nunn-Lugar”) program that focuses on securing loose nuclear materials in the former Soviet Union; Providing increased tools for the Proliferation Security Initiative, through which the U.S. and participating countries interdict WMD; and Establishing a U.S. Coordinator for the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism at the White House, who would serve as a presidential advisor on proliferation. Finally, the bill also includes provisions to reduce the appeal of extremism, including: Providing for the establishment of a Middle East Foundation, to promote economic opportunities, education reform, human rights and democratic processes in the countries of the Middle East; and Promoting quality educational opportunities for youth in Arab and other predominantly Muslim countries, including expanding U.S. scholarship and exchange programs.
12.8.2006	Today U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) and his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 6406, which will extend trade preferences for developing nations and to establish permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) with Vietnam. The bill passed by a vote of 212 to 184. The measure extended the Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA) preference program for six months, the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) for two years, and a critical provision of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) for five years, in addition to establishing PNTR with Vietnam. As a co-chair of the New Democrat Coalition, Smith supports trade preferences to help grow more robust economies and reduce poverty in underdeveloped nations. These countries in turn provide larger, more stable markets for U.S.-made goods. He was joined in his support for this legislation by groups including the ONE Campaign, Oxfam America, and Women’s Edge. This measure also includes a provision to allow limits on imports from nations whose exports to the United States grow beyond certain levels or who develop beyond the need for preferential market access. “Impoverished countries need more than our sympathy; they need access to markets for their goods. By extending these trade preferences, the United States shows that we are good neighbors in the global community and that we are partners in their fight to break out of the poverty trap. America gains international credibility, increased stability in regions key to our security, and growing markets for our goods and services through these trade preference programs,” Smith said. Smith’s support of these provisions is part of his larger effort to address global poverty. He led a New Democrat Coalition effort to rally support among his congressional colleagues for this measure last week (see attached letter). He is also the sponsor of the Global Poverty Act, H.R. 3605, in the House of Representatives and is an advocate for increased trade with developing nations to help them break out of the poverty trap. By normalizing trade with Vietnam, the bill provides market access for American goods and services. And, by approving Vietnam for World Trade Organization (WTO) membership, the United States gains a system for the resolution of trade disputes with a country that is our fastest growing export market in Asia. Smith also hopes that this final step in normalizing relations with Vietnam will lead to greater economic and political liberalization. “Vietnam is one of South Asia’s economic engines. It is also a key export market for Washington State, which had $32.5 million in total exports to Vietnam in 2005. The U.S. should not miss the chance to invest and trade in this growing market. I am pleased this legislation permanently establishes normal trade relations with our newest WTO member. The resulting transparency and dispute resolution process means that trade will be fairer and more likely to benefit American workers and companies,” Smith said.
12.8.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today issued the following statement after joining his colleagues to pass H.R. 6111, a bill that extended certain tax deductions and included a temporary fix to physician payments under Medicare. The bill passed by a vote of 367-45: I voted for this bill because of many of the good things it included. However, I was very disappointed several key provisions were left out of the final package. Specifically, I was glad to see that we were able to extend tax deductions for state sales taxes, college tuition, and out-of-pocket teacher expenses. These provisions help many working families stay afloat as they face economic challenges. Unfortunately, these important tax deductions were paired with several troubling provisions. The bill ignored the need for a timber tax deduction, something I worked hard to see included and that I plan to work for next year. Increased ocean drilling was also needlessly included; we are not going to drill our way to energy independence, and Congress would be better served to back more funds for alternative energy research. While I am pleased that this bill will stop a 5.1 percent cut to Medicare physicians payments next year, Congress chose a sloppy solution that will undermine our ability to deal with this situation over the long-term. Freezing the payment rates for physicians is merely a short-term fix. Americans deserve better than this kind of lazy legislation; unless Congress seriously addresses this problem next year, we will once again face the same problem. A long-term fix is critical to maintaining continuous service for Medicare recipients.
12.8.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) issued the following statement in response to the passage of S. 4046, a bill to extend the authority of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR): “The Special Inspector General is essential to the oversight of Iraq spending. The inspector general’s work has already saved American taxpayers an estimated $405 million so far, and there is no reason it should be arbitrarily terminated next year. An expanded SIGIR mandate is key to increased oversight of the Administration’s Iraq policies as Congress and the President seek a swift and satisfactory conclusion to our commitment in Iraq.”
12.6.2006	Today the bipartisan Iraq Study Group (ISG) released The Iraq Study Group Report: A Way Forward – A New Approach. The ISG called for increased diplomatic outreach in the Middle East, for Iraqis to take responsibility for the security of their country, and the responsible redeployment of our troops from Iraq. These recommendations validate positions that U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) has held for some time. “The Iraq Study Group’s report supports many things I have said previously: that 'stay the course' is not an option, that the Iraqis must take responsibility for their country, and that regional diplomacy and a political solution are our only real options in Iraq,” Smith said. “I hope the President listens to the bipartisan, highly qualified members of the Iraq Study Group and move past his refusal to listen to informed, credible voices in Congress.” Smith is encouraged that the ISG specifically validated a key position of his regarding the proper use of U.S. troops going forward. “I have advocated for months that our troops should be redeployed over a fairly rapid period of time and shift from combat duty to training and support for the Iraqi military. The ISG confirms this, and I hope the President will take this opportunity to implement a real course correction in Iraq.” Smith also expressed his eagerness to examine the ISG’s recommendations in the Armed Services Committee in the 110th Congress under incoming-Chairman Ike Skelton (MO-04). Smith is a key Democratic voice in Congress: Smith is the only Democrat serving concurrently on the House Armed Services and the House International Relations Committees. This dual assignment provides him a unique perspective on the military and diplomatic issues in Iraq and around the world. Smith is also the co-chair of the New Democrat Coalition, which is expected to grow to 60+ members in the 110th Congress. New Democrats have built a reputation as the "go-to" group in Congress on the critical issues of economic growth, national security, personal responsibility, and technology development. The Iraq Study Group’s recommendations are available at http://www.usip.org/isg/iraq_study_group_report/report/1206/iraq_study_group_report.pdf
12.6.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) will join colleagues in meetings with both Speaker-designee Nancy Pelosi and President Bush this week to discuss the New Democrat Coalition’s agenda in the 110th Congress, as well as the needs of his constituents. “The New Democrat Coalition worked closely with Speaker-designee Pelosi to shape the Democratic Agenda while we were the minority party in Congress, and this week we will discuss how to implement, among other things, our Innovation Agenda now that we are in the majority,” Smith said. “We look forward to joining with our colleagues in the Democratic Caucus to support the Speaker-designee’s ‘100 Hours’ plan. And, we expect to work with our colleagues to enact a progressive agenda that will create broad-based economic prosperity, enhanced national security and more opportunity for all Americans. Regarding the upcoming meeting with President Bush, Smith said: “We hope the invitation to meet with President Bush signals his willingness to set a more bipartisan tone in his congressional relations. In the past, the Republican approach to bipartisanship has been to huddle among themselves, let Democrats know what they decided, and then demand our support. Increased dialogue with Congress could help to bring a more balanced, thoughtful approach to our nation’s policies.” “I look forward to the chance to discuss specific policies with the President, including the Innovation Agenda backed by the NDC, Speaker-designee Pelosi, and the wider Democratic Caucus. I also plan to convey my concerns about the continued deterioration of the situation in Iraq.” Smith is a key Democratic voice in Congress: Smith is the only Democrat serving concurrently on the House Armed Services and the House International Relations Committees. This dual assignment provides him a unique perspective on the military and diplomatic issues in Iraq and around the world. Smith is also the co-chair of the New Democrat Coalition, which is expected to grow to 60+ members in the 110th Congress. New Democrats have built a reputation as the "go-to" group in Congress on the critical issues of economic growth, national security, personal responsibility, and technology development. Information on the Innovation Agenda can be found at: http://www.housedemocrats.gov/news/librarydetail.cfm?library_content_id=557
11.13.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) issued the following statement in response to the introduction of a bill by House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Ike Skelton (MO-04) to extend the authority of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGR): “Recent stories of missing weapons in Iraq highlight the need for oversight of war spending. The Special Inspector General is key to any such oversight, and it is important that he have the authority he needs until the job is done. As it stands, the SIGR could lose his oversight authority long before the last taxpayer dollar is spent in Iraq. “I am an original cosponsor of a bill introduced today by Rep. Skelton that would extend the SIGR’s authority until most Iraq war spending is complete. In addition, it would bring an additional $1.7 billion under the SIGR’s authority – money to be spent for the training and equipping of Iraqi troops. “Americans spoke loudly and clearly against staying the course in Iraq last week. Making sure we know where our money goes is essential if we are to get the situation in Iraq under control. This bill is a good step in a new direction in Iraq.”
11.8.2006	Today Donald Rumsfeld resigned his post as Secretary of Defense. Rumsfeld’s ouster comes on the heels of a staggering repudiation of the President’s Iraq policy by the American people on November 7, 2006. “The President is absolutely correct to accept Secretary Rumsfeld’s resignation,” U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) said. “It is unfortunate that it took a stunning loss at the polls, more than 2,800 American lives, tens of thousands of Iraqi lives, billions of taxpayer dollars and Abu Ghraib to convince the President to do so. Rumseld’s resignation is an opportunity for a new direction in Iraq, and the President must seize it.” According to a November 4 editorial in the Army Times, Air Force Times, Navy Times and Marine Corps Times under the headline “Time for Rumsfeld to go”: "Rumsfeld has lost credibility with the uniformed leadership, with the troops, with Congress and with the public at large. His strategy has failed, and his ability to lead is compromised. And although the blame for our failures in Iraq rests with the secretary, it will be the troops who bear its brunt.” Smith first called for Rumsfeld’s resignation following the Abu Ghraib scandal in 2004. He has also called for a new direction in Iraq beginning with a phased redeployment of our troops from the country. Smith is also a key Democratic voice on the war in Iraq. Smith is the only Democrat serving concurrently on the House Armed Services and the House International Relations Committees. This dual assignment provides him a unique perspective on the military and diplomatic issues in Iraq and around the world. He’s also the co-chair of the New Democrat Coalition, a large, moderate group of Democrats who fight for a strong national defense. This dual assignment provides him a unique perspective on the military and diplomatic issues in Iraq and around the world.
10.19.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) announced today a November 1, 2006 deadline for applications for nominations from his office to a U.S. military academy. “It is an honor for me to be able to nominate outstanding young men and women each year to the U.S. military academies,” said Smith. “The academies provide an excellent education and an exceptional opportunity to serve our country.” Smith may make nominations to four military academies: the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, New York the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, New York; and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecticut does not require a nomination; however, qualified applicants can request a letter of recommendation from Smith’s office. Who may apply: To apply for an appointment, a candidate must live in Washington’s Ninth Congressional District be between 17 and 23 years old and be unmarried. Applicants whose parents are temporarily stationed at a military base but maintain legal residence in another state should apply to the congressional office from that district. How to apply: Applicants should contact their Member of Congress and both Senators and apply to each office. For further information, visit Smith’s website at www.house.gov/adamsmith or contact Rebecca Snyder in Smith’s office at (253) 896-3775 or toll-free (888) 764-8409.
9.30.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today submitted the following statement on H.R. 4954, Security and Accountability for Every (SAFE) Port Act conference report. Smith was an original cosponsor of the bill, which passed the House early this morning by a vote of 409 to 2: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support the conference report on H.R. 4954, the SAFE Port Act. This bipartisan legislation makes critical improvements to strengthen our domestic and international security efforts and provides the resources necessary to detect tampered cargo before it enters our ports. Passage of the SAFE Port Act today is vital to our national security. “For Washington state, the SAFE Port Act will bring greater regional coordination, new security grants, increased Customs personnel for Puget Sound and development of radiation detection equipment that is both modern and appropriate for the Port of Tacoma’s increased rail capacity. “The SAFE Port Act also takes important steps to plan for and immediately recover from any incidents on our docks. With the increased role of western ports like the Port of Tacoma and the Port of Seattle in our global economy, we must ensure the free flow of commerce. “Passage of the SAFE Port Act will help protect our communities, our critical infrastructure and our homeland. The SAFE Port Act will move America in the right direction.”
9.29.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today voted for the $34.8 billion Homeland Security Department appropriations conference report for fiscal year 2007. “Port and cargo security, first responders, border control – these are all key components of our national security,” Smith said. “This bill, while not perfect, includes key funds for these essential priorities.” Among the items funded are: $2.8 billion for border patrol, adding 1,500 new Border Patrol agents. However, this increase is 500 agents below what Congress authorized in the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. $1.2 billion for border fences, vehicle barriers, technology and infrastructure. $4.3 billion for port, container and cargo security. $1.2 billion for high-risk area grants for state and local first responders, including $770 million for Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) grants, $175 million for rail security, and $74 million for other infrastructure protection. $375 million for state and local terrorism prevention grants. The bill would also overhaul the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and requires the FEMA Director have extensive emergency response and crisis management experience. It would also prevent FEMA funds from being diverted to other agencies and requires improved coordination between federal, state, and local emergency response organizations. “Our bungled response to Hurricane Katrina revealed the stunning level of ineptitude that had taken root at FEMA,” Smith said. “I hope this bill will help ensure this Administration does not repeat its past mistake of hiring someone with political connections instead of real-world qualifications.” The bill passed the House by a vote of 412 to 6. The bill must now be passed by the Senate before being signed into law by the President.
9.29.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today voted for the $462.9 billion National Defense Authorization conference report for fiscal year 2007. Included in the bill are $70 billion for Iraq and Afghanistan operations, $20 billion more than the President requested. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee and a conferee on the bill, Smith was pleased a number of his top priorities were included in the final legislation. “I, along with other Democratic Armed Services Committee members, pushed for the adequate funds to rebuild our forces in light of the extended wear-and-tear of the Iraq war,” Smith said. “I am pleased the bill includes these key funds and provisions, but more must be done.” On Iraq: Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction. The bill requires fiscal year 2007 Iraq spending be reviewed by the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR). Although Smith preferred a non-expiring mandate for the SIGIR, he was pleased the bill provided the SIGIR oversight through fiscal year 2007. “The Iraq reconstruction effort is fraught with waste, fraud, and abuse, and the Special Inspector General has been our only tool for uncovering and addressing the problems,” Smith said. “It was critical to expand the Inspector’s mandate in this bill so we can do more to rein in this gross mismanagement of taxpayer money.” No Permanent Military Bases in Iraq. For the first time, this legislation prohibits spending for military bases for the permanent stationing of U.S. Armed Forces in Iraq, or to exercise economic control of Iraq’s oil resources. “This provision sends a critical message to the Iraqis: we are not occupiers, and the Iraqis must take control of their security,” Smith said. IED Jammers. The legislation requires the Defense Department to provide by the end of fiscal year 2007 Improvised Explosive Device (IED) jammers for all United States military wheeled vehicles in Iraq and Afghanistan outside secure military bases. “IEDs are a chief hazard to our troops in the field,” Smith said. “Neutralizing them should be a top priority.” Also included in the bill are provisions for: Army and Marine Corp Readiness. The legislation provides $23.7 billion to replace, repair, and maintain military equipment. The bill also requires the Army properly budget for upkeep of equipment used in the hunt for terrorists. TRICARE for Guard and Reserve. The bill grants full, affordable access to TRICARE for all National Guard members and Reservists, regardless of activation or employment status. This provision is a key aspect of an earlier bill Smith introduced, H.R. 4468, a quality-of-life bill for Guard members and Reservists. TRICARE and prescription drug access. In addition, the bill places a one-year moratorium on any TRICARE cost-share increases or retail prescription drug co-pay increases. Servicemembers Group Life Insurance. Full premiums for Servicemembers Group Life Insurance are paid for servicemembers in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. The legislation provides $23.7 billion to replace, repair, and maintain military equipment. The bill also requires the Army properly budget for upkeep of equipment used in the hunt for terrorists. The bill passed the House by a vote of 398 to 23. The Senate must approve the legislation before it can be signed into law by the President.
9.28.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today issued the following statement on H.R. 5825, a bill that would egregiously expand executive surveillance power, which passed the House of Representatives tonight: “We face a real threat from violent Islamic extremists. To fight them effectively, we must not only hunt them aggressively at home and abroad, but also preserve our ability to motivate other countries to fight with us. At the same time, we must stand firm in the defense of our nation’s ideals. “This bill would accomplish none of these critically important goals. Instead, the President and the Republican Leadership attempted to put Democrats on the horns of an election year dilemma: either egregiously expand the executive branch’s authority outside bounds set by the Constitution, or be accused of voting against the hunt for terrorists. “We do not know to what extent the President’s current surveillance system breaks from current law, but all indications point to a blatant circumvention of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. This bill would not only codify that violation; it would vastly expand the President’s surveillance power beyond any check or balance. It would allow the President to spy on Americans without a warrant for an unlimited period of time. “Given the President’s track record of misused and overreaching executive authority, it is hard to understand why we should now be expected to give him even more latitude to use surveillance techniques that may very well be struck down by the Supreme Court. Such an additional failure on the part of the Administration and this Republican Congress would further hamper our efforts to stop terrorism.” “The President had the basic tools he needed within the framework of the FISA but chose to ignore them. This bill is not some common-sense move to track terrorists. It is not a needed update to FISA. It is huge expansion of executive power that should concern all Americans.”
9.27.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today issued the following statement on the Republican-backed “compromise” military commissions act, H.R. 6616: “I oppose the legislation creating military commissions because it would sacrifice our moral leadership in the world, delay our fight to prosecute and punish terrorists, and risk our troops. “This measure would give this President and any future President the power to reinterpret laws and agreements which bar mistreatment of prisoners whenever and however he feels it convenient. It would allow the President to weaken the Geneva Conventions and undermine our moral leadership in the world while further risking the safety of our servicemembers. “This move by the Administration and Congress will confuse our policies surrounding prisoner treatment. Our policies should be unambiguous: the United States does not condone torture. This proposal runs counter to fundamental American values. “Five years after 9/11, we still have not convicted a single terrorist. We absolutely must be able to bring our terrorist enemies to justice through a system that is tough, fair, and effective. This bill will likely fail Supreme Court scrutiny just as the Administration’s previous system failed, and for the same reasons. This latest failure would mean we spend more time debating proper treatment of terror suspects instead of making sure they face swift, tough consequences. And make no mistake: al-Qaeda will not wait around for us to get serious about bringing them to justice. “This bill is another example of this President and this Republican Congress failing to win the fight against terror. The policies of President Bush and the Republican Congress are making us less safe. It is time for a new direction.”
9.26.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith today announced more than $10 million in funds for projects in Washington’s Puget Sound region. The funds were included in H.R. 5631, the Defense Department appropriations conference report for fiscal year 2007. “I am pleased to have been able to work with my colleagues to secure these key funds for Puget Sound area defense projects,” Smith said. “These projects will, among other things, fight cancer, improve aircraft safety, and fight drug trafficking.” Smith announced funding for the following projects in H.R. 5631: $2 million for targeted radiation cancer therapy at Madigan Army Hospital. This funding will be used to provide innovative prostate cancer treatment therapy for military personnel and veterans. Calypso Medical Technologies, a Seattle biomedical company, will carry out this program using their cutting-edge targeted radiation tumor tracking technology. $1 million for high-tech aircraft inspections. These funds will facilitate the development of advanced systems to perform more efficient and effective airframe maintenance inspections on the Air Force’s C-5 aircraft. Quest Integrated, Inc. of Kent, WA, will carry out this program with its Induction Thermography System (ITS) technology. $350,000 for WA National Guard Counter-Drug Linguist Program. This funding will allow the WA National Guard to hire additional soldiers to use their specialized military skills as linguists to translate and analyze evidence of criminal drug trafficking. A 2002 GAO report concluded that the US does not possess adequate linguist assets. This critical program, operated out of Ft. Lewis, specifically targets foreign narco-terrorists, narco-traffickers and transnational criminal organizations. $3.3 million for advanced military food preservation technology. Smith worked with fellow Washington delegation members to secure funds for this demonstration program for advanced food preservation technologies to enhance combat ration quality. These technologies include high-pressure processing developed by Avure Technologies in Kent, WA and Washington State University’s microwave processing technology. $1.7 million for small boat lifts for the US Navy. These funds will help the Navy procure additional advanced hydraulic boat lifts that increase the lifespan and reduce maintenance costs for small boats in the Navy. The boatlifts, a product of Sunstream Corporation in Kent, WA, are used on naval bases around the country. $1.7 million for laser defenses against man-portable surface-to-air missiles (MANPADS). This critical funding would enable the Air Force to conduct final tests and accelerated fielding of a laser technology to combat advanced MANPADS. Aculight in Bothel, WA developed this technology. The House passed the bill tonight by a vote of 394 to 22. The Senate must now approve the conference report before the President can sign it into law.
9.26.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today joined his colleagues to pass legislation addressing the massive humanitarian crisis in Sudan: H.R. 3127, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2006, passed last night in the House of Representatives. H. Res. 992, which urged the President to appoint a Presidential Special Envoy for Sudan, passed tonight by a vote of 414 to 3. H. Res. 723, which called on the President to take immediate steps to help improve the security situation in Darfur, Sudan, with a specific emphasis on civilian protection, passed tonight by a vote of 412 to 7. , the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2006, passed last night in the House of Representatives. Smith was instrumental in passing these measures. As a member of the House International Relations Committee, he cosponsored all three pieces of legislation and voted to pass them in committee and on the House floor. “The United States must continue leading the international effort to end the atrocities in Darfur,” Smith said. “More must be done soon to stop the violence, but these measures are good steps in the right direction. Taken together, they will increase pressure on the Sudanese government to accept an expanded U.N. peacekeeping force.” Today’s outcome builds on Smith’s previous successful fight to pass the House version of the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act in April. The bill builds on the Sudan Peace Act of 2004 by strengthening sanctions on those responsible for the atrocities in the Darfur region of Sudan. It also authorizes more funds for peacekeeping and humanitarian efforts. The measure adopted by the House last night was the final conference version, which must now be signed by the President before it becomes law. By contrast, H. Res. 992 and H. Res. 773 are House resolutions, which do not require consideration by a conference committee or signature by the President.
9.26.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith applauded the passage of H.R. 5835, a bill to create a high-level position in the Veterans Affairs (VA) Department to protect veterans data. The bill was drafted in response to the May theft of a VA laptop that held personally identifiable data on more than 26 million veterans. Smith cosponsored the legislation, which passed the House of Representatives today by voice vote. “Veterans must be able to trust the VA to secure the information gathered during an appointment,” Smith said. “I was disturbed by the VA’s response during the May incident that exposed tens of millions of veterans to potential identity theft. This bill is a timely move to shore up the VA’s security against similar breaches.” H.R. 5835 includes provisions that would: Create an Office of the Undersecretary for Information Services inside the VA and instating three deputy undersecretaries to answer to the Undersecretary; Require the VA provide credit and fraud protection in the event of another data theft; and Require a study on whether it is feasible to use personal identification numbers instead of Social Security numbers in veterans’ records to protect patients’ identities. The bill must now be considered by the Senate. A conference version of the legislation must then be approved by both houses of Congress before it can be sent to the President for his signature.
9.20.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) issued the following statement on H.R. 4484, the Republican Voter ID bill, which the House of Representatives will vote on today: “Congress should remove barriers between citizens and the polls, not erect new ones,” Smith said. “This legislation will needlessly prevent many married women, minorities, Katrina victims, low-income people, rural residents and elderly citizens from voting. These people are less likely to have the kind of identification this bill would require and would therefore be prevented from casting a ballot. “We cannot disenfranchise people under the guise of making sure they are eligible to vote. If this bill becomes law, many otherwise eligible voters will be denied their most basic constitutional right.”
9.19.2006	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today voted in favor of House Concurrent Resolution 210, which expresses Congress’s support for eliminating suffering and death due to cancer by 2015. Smith is a co-sponsor of the resolution. The legislation passed in the House of Representatives tonight by a vote of 403 - 0. “As a member of the House Cancer Caucus, I was glad to see my colleagues support the goal of ending suffering and death due to cancer by 2015,” Smith said. “I will keep working with my colleagues in Congress to help provide the needed funds and make that goal a reality.” Cancer now kills more Americans under the age of 85 than any other disease, including heart disease. More than one million people are diagnosed with cancer each year. Congress has yet to pass the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2007 that would fund continued cancer research through the National Institutes of Health and the National Cancer Institute. The House of Representatives is not expected to do so before adjourning until November so that Members may return to their districts. Smith is pleased he will have a chance to meet tomorrow with Washington State residents, including constituents from the 9th Congressional District, as part of the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network’s Celebration on the Hill 2006. These Celebration Ambassadors will call on Members of Congress to make a “Congressional Cancer Promise.” The Promise outlines steps Congress can take to help end cancer suffering and related deaths. Visiting Celebration Ambassadors from Washington State include: Tina Bodine (Lacey) Kristi Coppin-Arnold (Sumner) Kimberly Crawford (Federal Way) William Hagedorn (Puyallup) Cindi Mueller (Milton) Linda Russell (Puyallup) “I commend my constituents for their dedication to ending a disease that affects so many families,” Smith said. “I look forward to continuing to fight alongside them to end suffering and death from cancer by 2015.”
9.19.2006	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today voted in favor of House Concurrent Resolution 622, which recognizes and honors the service of Filipino World War II veterans for their defense of democratic ideals and their contributions to the Allied victory in the Pacific. Smith is a co-sponsor of the resolution. The measure passed in the House of Representatives tonight by a vote of 402 - 0. “More than 120,000 Filipinos fought to defend the United States in the Pacific during World War II, and they deserve the recognition given them by the House of Representatives tonight,” Smith said. “They also deserve full access to veterans’ health care and other benefits, and I am fighting to make sure they get their due.” Smith is a cosponsor of H.R. 4574, the Filipino Vets Equity Act. The bill would extend Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) benefits to the 13,000 remaining veterans residing in the Philippines. U.S.-resident Filipino veterans are already covered by VA benefits. H.R. 4574 was referred to House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health on January 3, 2006. Smith and the bill’s other cosponsors are fighting to bring it to a vote in the full House of Representatives before the 109th Congress adjourns at the end of this year.
9.11.2006	U.S. Representative Adam Smith (WA-09) today released the following statement on the fifth anniversary of the September 11th, 2001 terrorist attacks: “Today we again pause to remember a dark moment burned into the memory of our generation. We remember those who died and the loved ones they left behind. We remember the victims of war, terrorism, and other violence. We rededicate ourselves to the belief in human freedom and support for those who fight for it.” “This five-year anniversary of the September 11th terror attacks reminds us to remain vigilant to stop future attacks. While some progress has been made on homeland security, we clearly have more work to do. The Taliban have resurfaced in Afghanistan. Our military is stretched dangerously thin. Only 6 percent of containers entering U.S. ports are screened. First responders still do not have the equipment needed to communicate with each other in an emergency. We can and must do more to ensure attacks like those of September 11th, 2001 never happen again. “Our thoughts are with those who lost loved ones and with those on the front lines of the war on terror. Their sacrifices demand we refocus on bringing those responsible for the attacks to justice.”
9.1.2006	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today issued the following statement in recognition of Labor Day, which is this Monday, September 4. “Labor Day is a time to remember the long, hard-fought struggle for workers' rights to organize, get fair wages and receive training to compete in the global economy. “That fight continues today. “The federal minimum wage has been stuck at $5.15 per hour since 1997. We in Washington State set a higher minimum wage: $7.63 per hour. Democrats want to increase the federal minimum wage to help bring the rest of the nation up to Washington State's level. This important step will help address the growing gap between rich and poor in our nation. “Unfortunately, when the House of Representatives last considered a minimum wage increase, the Majority would only consider a bill for wage-earners after attaching a massive tax cut package for the heirs of the wealthiest fraction of one percent of Americans, a move that would deepen our already massive national debt. In addition, the bill would have forced Washington State tip-earners to take a pay cut. Americans are not fools; we know an exercise in political cynicism when we see it. “But raising the minimum wage alone is not enough. Workers also need continuing education and training to compete in the global economy. Congress should provide adequate funds for trade adjustment assistance (TAA), and we should expand TAA to service-sector workers. These much-needed funds for continued job-related education will help our workers meet the changing demands of global trade. “We have made some progress to improve the TAA program. Regrettably, Administration policies leave behind many workers who qualify for TAA benefits. This failure to support TAA will only get worse as the Majority continues to push fiscally irresponsible spending and tax cuts that severely hamper our ability to invest in our workers. “It is time for a new direction. While House Leadership and the President fail to stand behind our working families, we must come together to ensure that all Americans can share the American Dream. Labor Day reminds us we must keep fighting to expand opportunity and work to restore hope and broad-based prosperity for our nation.”
8.31.2006	U.S. Reps. Adam Smith (WA-09) and Mike Honda (CA-15) today submitted a letter to Thomas F. Gimble, Acting Inspector General for the Department of Defense, requesting a quick completion of the investigation into the Army’s treatment of Captain James Yee. Yee was arrested in 2003 on espionage charges and held in solitary confinement for 76 days, only to be released and honorably discharged from service. Smith and Honda, along with Reps. Ike Skelton (MO-04) and Vic Snyder (AR-02), requested in June 2004 that the Department of Defense investigate the Army’s treatment of Yee. The department began an investigation in December 2004. The Defense Department has still not completed its inquiry despite repeated requests by Members of Congress for an expeditious resolution. “Our servicemembers deserve to be treated fairly by the Department of Defense. Captain Yee’s arrest, incarceration, and release raise serious questions as to whether the department follows its own rules when troops are accused of a crime,” Smith said. “The Department of Defense needs to conclude its inquiry into this matter as quickly as possible. This investigation has already taken too long.” Below is a copy of the letter that Smith and Honda sent to Acting Inspector General Gimble. August 31, 2006 Thomas F. Gimble Acting Inspector General Department of Defense 400 Army Navy Drive Arlington, VA 22202-4704 Dear Mr. Gimble: We write to urge you to complete, as expeditiously as possible, your office’s evaluation of the Army’s handling of the criminal investigation of Army Chaplain, Captain James Yee. As you know, in September 2003 Captain Yee was arrested on suspicion of espionage and other treasonous conduct, later charged with separate crimes, held in solitary confinement for 76 days, and ultimately released, with all criminal charges dropped. Captain Yee was later honorably discharged from the Army in January 2005. Due to the unusual facts surrounding Captain Yee’s case, in June 2004 we requested that your office investigate the Army’s handling of the case to determine whether Captain Yee was treated appropriately and in accordance with applicable military regulations, policies and procedures. In December 2004, your office initiated such an evaluation. We write to inquire as to the status of the evaluation and to urge your office to complete it in a timely manner. A recent written update from your office indicated that the evaluation is still ongoing, and gave no target completion date. In response to earlier telephone inquiries from our offices, your staff had indicated that the evaluation would be completed during the spring of 2006. Most recently, your staff indicated that there has been a delay in the evaluation and that the new tentative target completion date is mid-October 2006. We hope that you will be able to complete this evaluation expeditiously and meet this October 2006 target completion date. The completion of a fair and thorough investigation is critical not only to bring closure to Captain Yee’s case, but to ensure the integrity of our military justice system. Thank you for your continued work on this matter. We look forward to the results of your evaluation. Sincerely, Adam Smith Member of Congress Mike Honda Member of Congress
8.26.2006	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today issued the following statement on the upcoming one-year anniversary of Hurricane Katrina devastating the Gulf Coast: “One year after Hurricane Katrina slammed the Gulf Coast, New Orleans and the surrounding region remain in shambles, and more must be done to help storm survivors rebuild their shattered lives. “From the beginning, the federal response to the storm has been inadequate to meet the needs of affected Americans. As the flood waters receded, Congress and the President pledged to help Gulf Coast residents rebuild their communities. But as Congress turned to the ‘nuts and bolts’ of rebuilding the coast, compassionate rhetoric gave way to partisan opportunism and cronyism. “Relief funds were understandably rushed to the floor of Congress. But when the funds were doled out, the Administration handed out lucrative no-bid reconstruction contracts that may have inflated the cost to taxpayers. Then, to ‘offset the cost of reconstruction,’ Congress cut $50 billion from other key programs including Medicaid and food stamps. “Weeks later, the House of Representatives cut taxes for the heirs of the wealthiest fraction of one percent of Americans. “It is contradictory and irresponsible to cut programs that are lifelines for Katrina survivors, citing a budget crisis, and then provide massive tax breaks to those who need it least with no regard for the cost. “On the ground in New Orleans, the return to normalcy has slowed to a crawl. The city’s water system still leaks massive amounts of water, utilities have not been restored in many neighborhoods, and sinkholes caused by broken pipes are destroying many of the remaining roads. “But one year after Katrina, just over half of the money allocated for reconstruction has been spent. Eighty percent of small business owners affected by Katrina with approved Small Business Administration loans still wait for the money. Roughly 7,500 families still wait for trailers promised by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and many who received them now find any number of keys can open their locked doors. “Incredibly, when Congress appropriated billions of dollars for disaster relief, Congress and the Administration failed to establish procedures to track the money. FEMA reports to Congress on their relief spending, but several other federal agencies have slices of relief funds to distribute, and they do not report their expenditures. In many cases, these agencies do not even track whether the money has actually been spent. “If Congress were serious about fiscal responsibility, they would appoint a special inspector general to oversee Katrina spending. I cosponsored a bill, House Resolution 3737, to do just that. Months later, House Leadership has yet to bring this common-sense measure up for a vote. “In addition to failing to oversee tax dollars, Congress and the Administration have failed to live up to many of the President’s promises to survivors. Both the President’s proposed Worker Recovery Accounts and the Urban Homesteading Act, billed as needed help to get evacuees working and in their homes, have stalled in Congress and have not moved since January. “All this led us to where we are today in New Orleans: fraud and continued delays getting relief money where it is needed, infrastructure and housing still in disarray, and a growing health and mental health crisis burgeoning among the survivors. Cost estimates for reconstruction continue to balloon, painting a dark picture of our nation’s fiscal future. “The track record for this Administration and Congress before, during, and after Hurricane Katrina shows they do not understand effective government. Fiscal responsibility and effective planning are nowhere to be found. The problem is systemic: we see it in our Katrina response, in our Iraq troubles, and in our lack of fiscal discipline. “Americans want more than just tax cuts from their government. Liberals, moderates, and conservatives can all agree that we want our government to spend our tax dollars wisely and to provide effective disaster response. Cutting taxes and increasing spending during times of crisis is neither responsible nor conservative; it’s reckless and dangerous. “The American people know what good governance looks like. Unfortunately, as a result of the bungled response to Hurricane Katrina, they surely know what corruption and incompetence look like: decimated neighborhoods untouched by rebuilding efforts while billions of dollars in reconstruction money float around federal accounts without accountability or oversight. Katrina’s aftermath is a symbol for the wrong direction in which our country is headed. “We deserve effective, efficient government that spends money wisely in line with our values and priorities. But a year later, Congress and the Bush Administration have not corrected mistakes made before, during and after Katrina. It is time for a new direction. Americans deserve more than just a ‘heck of a job’ and it is time for Congress to give it to them.”
7.28.2006	U.S. Reps. Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) and Norm Dicks (D-Belfair) introduced legislation this week to authorize $38 million for a new nursing care home at the VA’s American Lake facility in Lakewood, Washington. The new home would replace the current facility, which the VA has cited for seismic and other safety risks. "The American Lake home is unsafe and the veterans there are at risk," said Rep. Smith. “These brave veterans have served our nation proudly and our now some of the most frail and vulnerable among us. We owe it to them to fix this problem.” The legislation aims to end a Congressional delay in approving funding for the facility. While the House and the Senate Appropriations Committee have approved bills appropriating funds for the project, neither chamber has authorized the funding—a requirement for major construction projects. The FY07 budget submitted by the President recognized that the American Lake project is a top priority, and included a request that Congress provide the $38 million for next year. Rep. Dicks noted that, "The decision made by the VA to seek replacement funding for the American Lake facility recognizes not only the immediate safety issues involved but also the urgent need for nursing care services to a substantial population of veterans in the greater Pierce County area. Congress now needs to act on this authorization bill to match the urgency of the Administration's efforts." Rep. Smith added, “We need to get this funding approved immediately, and this bill would remove the last remaining obstacle,” said Smith. “We’ll keep working with Senators Murray and Cantwell and other supporters to get this done.”
7.27.2006	Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today offered a bipartisan amendment to H.R. 4157, the Health Information Technology Promotion Act of 2005. The amendment allows for the creation of a demonstration project that will provide a more efficient and effective system for managing disease by using health information technology on disease management for the Medicaid population. The amendment was agreed to by voice vote and was included in the final bill that passed by a vote of 270-148. The bill will now be sent to conference. "Under the current paper-based healthcare system, patients and their doctors lack instant access to medical information,” said Adam Smith. “This lack of connectivity and shared knowledge leads to medical errors, increased costs, and inefficiency. This demonstration project would leverage information technology as a tool to increase the efficiency of the healthcare system, improve the quality of care for Medicaid patients and it will decrease costs to states and the federal government, which are facing record deficits.” The McMorris-Smith amendment directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct 2-year pilot projects in selected states to demonstrate the beneficial impact of health IT on chronic disease case management for the Medicaid population. It allows for the creation of a virtual case management tool that provides patients and providers access to a real-time electronic medical records. This amendment was based off a bill that Reps. McMorris and Smith introduced last fall, H.R. 4331, the Medicaid Access Project through Information Technology (MAP IT). "Health IT has the potential to reduce costs with Medicaid, empower patients with the necessary tools to manage their disease, and improve quality of care by reducing errors,” said Cathy McMorris. “The United States lags behind other industrialized countries regarding investment in health IT, and it is time that we begin using 21st century technology for 21st century health care. Washington state is already a nationwide leader in health IT and could benefit by applying to be a candidate in this demonstration program.” Without changes to our health care system, analysts predict that Medicaid will bankrupt every state in as little as twenty years. By providing online access for managing chronic disease, states will be able to significantly reduce costs within Medicaid. An August 2005 study by the Institute for Public Policy and Economic Analysis at Eastern Washington University found that for ever dollar spent on technology-enabled disease management program, it provided up to ten dollars in medical savings and even more in terms of non-medical cost savings. In addition to cost-savings, the use of Health IT ensures that overall health care delivery is safe and more comprehensive. According to the Institute of Medicine, at least 1.5 million Americas are sickened, injured or killed each year by errors in prescribing, dispensing or taking medications. By allowing providers to access real time data, doctors can treat patients with the most recent advancements in medicine and according to the best practices in medicine. This amendment is endorsed by American Medical Association, American Hospital Association, Federation of American Hospitals, Healthcare Information Management Systems Society, American Health Information Management Association, Information Technology Industry Council, Northwest Physicians Network, and Othello Community Hospital. It is also supported by the entire Washington state delegation.
6.16.2006	Today, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith expressed disappointment with a resolution considered in the House regarding Iraq and the war on terrorism. The non-binding resolution expressed the House of Representatives’ support for American troops and commitment to achieving success in Iraq and the war on terrorism. While Smith ultimately voted in favor of the resolution, he decried the inadequacy of the measure and the Congress’ failure to address the ongoing challenges in Iraq. “This resolution does nothing to address the real challenges in Iraq or to hold the administration accountable for their mistakes,” said Smith. “Yet another resolution expressing support for our troops and commitment to success is fine, but does not help us get any closer to actually achieving that success so that we can bring our troops home. We should be talking about how to accelerate the transition to Iraqi sovereignty, including reducing our troop levels in a responsible way and working with allies and regional players to bolster the new Iraqi government.” Smith continued, “This administration has made, and continues to make, many costly mistakes in Iraq, and this Congress has failed to ask the tough questions that will help us change course and move more quickly to turn Iraq over to the Iraqis. I want to make clear that my vote in favor of this resolution is not an endorsement of this administration’s conduct in Iraq.” During House debate on the resolution, Smith expressed his disappointment in a speech on the House floor. The full text of Smith’s floor speech follows: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in disappointment – though I must say, not in surprise – about the exercise the House is engaged in today. This is not a true debate about our policy in Iraq. A real debate on Iraq would allow us to consider alternative proposals and vote on meaningful amendments that could help us improve the very difficult situation there. Instead we have before us an un-amendable, rhetorical document about the war on terrorism that barely focuses on Iraq itself, and certainly doesn’t deal with the real challenges we face there. This process is an offense to our democracy. What is even more troubling, Mr. Speaker, is that this kind of undemocratic approach is precisely what led to the Bush administration’s many costly mistakes in Iraq. Americans have seen how the administration’s stubborn single-mindedness and refusal to consider alternative views and dissenting opinions have cost us dearly in Iraq. The facts are all-to-well-known: When General Shinseki said that far more troops would be needed to secure the peace in Iraq, he was ignored and soon retired – and the result was that the troops we did send struggled unnecessarily to prevent and control a massive insurgency. When advisors warned the administration not to de-Baathify and disband the Iraqi military and security forces, they were ignored. As Prime Minister Tony Blair has publicly admitted, this was a grave mistake that effectively pushed thousands of military-trained, disempowered Sunnis into the streets, fueling the post-war insurgency. And the administration’s refusal to heed dissenting views on Iraq continues to this day. Now that the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction has brought to light massive amounts of waste, fraud, and abuse in the reconstruction contracting, I understand that the administration and the Republicans in Congress are trying to prematurely end his mandate. This is a clear pattern, Mr. Speaker, and the consequences of this arrogant, undemocratic approach are real. It has cost us dearly in American lives and resources, undermined our efforts to build peace and stability in Iraq, and delayed our departure from the country. Mr. Speaker, I supported the use-of-force authorization in October 2002 in order to give the President the leverage to hold Saddam Hussein accountable for his threatening behavior and refusal to submit to weapons inspections. And that is what makes it all the more frustrating that the President misused that authority by rushing to war and committing so many grave and costly mistakes in Iraq. So no, Mr. Speaker, this is not a real debate. A real debate would allow us to consider the important questions in Iraq: Can we afford to make an open-ended commitment to staying in Iraq? Has our troop presence there reached the point where it is inhibiting a successful transition to full Iraqi sovereignty? Can our strained military and ballooning national deficit handle it? How can we accelerate the transition to Iraqi sovereignty and responsibility for their own country? How best can we engage in more robust diplomacy with our allies and key regional players who can help bolster the new Iraqi government and contribute to its reconstruction? How can we improve Congressional oversight so that we can identify and rectify the enormous mistakes the administration has made in Iraq? These are the questions we should be debating, Mr. Speaker, because they directly affect our ability to achieve success in Iraq. We owe it to our brave men and women in uniform and to the American people to ask these questions. But instead, we have a resolution before us today that is basically irrelevant when it comes to the real issues in Iraq. It says, essentially, that we support fighting terrorism and that we are committed to achieving success in Iraq. I agree with that, but that doesn’t say anything about how we get there. That is the important question. Mr. Speaker, today Congress is continuing to utterly abdicate its oversight responsibility. Since the outbreak of war, this Congress has done little more than endorse the administration’s policy in Iraq, instead of asking the tough questions and scrutinizing that policy, as the Constitution requires us to do. Mr. Speaker, I hope, despite this Congress’ refusal to conduct oversight, that we can be honest today as we look ahead in Iraq. We all want to see an Iraq that is stable, secure, and free. Our troops are doing an outstanding job, and they deserve our full support and respect. But the fact is that success or failure in Iraq increasingly depends on the decisions of Iraqi leaders, and they must understand that. In order to achieve success in Iraq we must accelerate the transition to Iraqi sovereignty. I believe that significantly reducing our military footprint is critical for making that happen. While we cannot simply abandon Iraq at this point, drawing down our forces levels in a responsible way in the coming months will force the Iraqis to take greater responsibility for their own security and reduce their dependence on U.S. forces. It will also send an important message to the Iraqi people that Americans are not there to occupy the country, but rather seek to begin leaving as Iraqis take control of their own country. Finally, Mr. Speaker, as we move forward in Iraq, both the future and the past matter. We must make the best of a difficult situation by working diligently to help Iraqis take full responsibility for running their country so that our overburdened troops can come home. And we must do so in a manner that does not give the violent Islamic terrorists in the world any greater strength. Yet we must also be willing to acknowledge and learn from our mistakes so that we can chart a new path forward. That requires holding the Bush administration and this rubber-stamp Congress accountable for their failures.”
6.13.2006	Congressman Adam Smith voted against legislation today to provide $94.5 billion in emergency supplemental funds for Iraq, Afghanistan, and Gulf Coast rebuilding. “I fully support our troops and I believe we must assist the hurricane victims on the Gulf Coast, but Congress cannot keep rubber-stamping these spending bills while the Bush administration and the Republican-controlled Congress utterly fail in their oversight of the spending,” said Smith. Smith has been vigilant on the issue of Iraq contracting accountability and has cosponsored legislation to establish a bipartisan congressional committee to investigate war contracting modeled after the successful WWII Truman Committee. “I am also disappointed that Congressional leaders continue to fund our operations in Iraq through off-budget ‘emergency’ spending packages with little-to-no oversight. This is extremely dishonest and fiscally irresponsible. After more than three years and over $300 billion spent on the Iraq war, there is no reason why we shouldn’t be fully budgeting for and scrutinizing this funding.” Smith was further dismayed with the fact that the Bush Administration and Congressional leaders are seeking to prematurely end the mission of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR) and prohibit him from overseeing future Iraq reconstruction money, including the funds in the bill Smith opposed today. The legislation provides $1.6 billion in new funding for Iraq reconstruction, but does so through accounts over which the SIGIR has no oversight authority. “The Special Inspector General has been the only reasonably effective way to investigate and expose any waste, fraud, and abuse in Iraq contracting. I could not sit silent while this bill effectively cuts off the IG’s oversight of new funds,” said Smith. Oversight is also critically important for the spending related to Hurricane Katrina relief. While there is clear need to provide assistance to the affected region, Smith has been troubled by cases of fraud, theft, and the mismanagement of many contracts. The supplemental bill does not go far enough to ensure that such mismanagement and inefficiency has been adequately addressed. “I stand with our troops who are serving so bravely overseas, fighting to protect our nation. And I am committed to advocating on behalf of Katrina-related recovery. We need to address these priorities in a responsible manner. Unfortunately, Congress has failed to conduct rigorous oversight, leading to too much wasteful and inefficient spending. Such wasteful spending will only make it more difficult to fund our nation’s future needs. As a result, I believe the responsible vote today was ‘no’.”
6.9.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Adam Smith was pleased to vote for H.R. 5522, the Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill for FY 2007. While not perfect, the bill increases funding to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB) and malaria, and to assist developing countries through Millennium Challenge Account (MCA). It also provides critical funds for humanitarian relief in Sudan and more focused assistance for trade capacity building. “Fighting poverty and disease in the world is not only a moral imperative, it’s in our interests as a nation,” said Smith. “This bill takes positive steps to improve America’s leadership in that fight, but we must do more." Added Smith, “I’m pleased that the bill includes $3.43 billion to combat AIDS, TB, and malaria, an increase of $750 million over the current level. The scourge of AIDS and other infectious diseases are destabilizing continents and condemning generations to death, and this is a needed step to provide more help.” “I was pleased to see that funding for the MCA was increased over the current level, but I was disappointed that the House budget allocation for the Foreign Operations subcommittee was reduced so that providing more funding for the MCA and other anti-poverty programs was not possible,” added Smith. The bill provides $2 billion for the MCA, $248 million more than the current level but $1 billion lower than the President’s request. The MCA provides assistance to developing countries that meet minimum standards of good governance, economic and political freedom, and investing in their people. “I was also disappointed that the House rejected an amendment to increase funding for targeted poverty-reduction efforts such as safe water, health, and basic education programs.” The amendment would have increased funding for the Development Assistance Account $250 million. The bill also provides $450 million for humanitarian relief in Sudan, where the suffering continues in the Darfur region despite a fragile peace agreement. “This critical funding is just one component of what must be a greater U.S. commitment to stop the atrocities in Darfur,” said Smith. Smith also applauded the bill’s creation of a new $522 million account to consolidate existing assistance for trade capacity building. “This provision will better focus our efforts to help developing countries reap the benefits of international trade,” said Smith.
6.8.2006	Today, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith along with House Ways and Means Ranking Member Charles B. Rangel requested the Comptroller General of the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to evaluate and report to Congress on several aspects of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. Created in 1962, the TAA program helps workers who lost their jobs due to international competition learn new skills through worker retraining programs and respond to changing realities in the global environment. Once a worker or group of workers are certified by the Department of Labor to be eligible for TAA, the benefits would include (1) funding to use towards training programs or an advanced degree, (2) healthcare coverage tax credit, and (3) wage insurance. As the GAO request states, “however, as indicated in several recent GAO reports and data reported by the Department of Labor (DOL), the TAA program has failed to live up to its promise, largely as a result of limitations on worker eligibility, inadequate funding and outreach, and unnecessary and burdensome procedural requirements.” “Overall, we are asking the GAO to look at the effectiveness of the TAA program, including the steps taken by the Department of Labor and state workforce agencies to inform workers and employers about the TAA program,” said Smith. “We also want to look at what are the major reasons for denial of TAA petitions by the Department of Labor.” The request also addresses the lack of training currently available and asks the GAO if those funding levels require an increase. The Congressmen also seek information regarding how many workers are adversely affected by shortages in training funds and what level of funding would be necessary to adequately meet the training needs of all workers enrolled in TAA. Many states, including Washington, run out of training funding every year and as a result, many eligible workers are not able to access necessary skills and training programs. Also, many workers eligible for certain programs under TAA, including the wage insurance program and the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC), do not take advantage of these programs and the request asks the GAO to look into this discrepancy. In October of last year, Smith introduced the TAA Improvement Act (HR 4156) with over 100 Members of Congress supporting the bill and over 10 labor unions and organizations endorsing the bill. The request asks the GAO to look at some of the key points in this legislation including: What would be the expected increase in petitions and enrollment if TAA eligibility criteria were expanded to cover all service workers? What would be the expected enrollment if the DOL could certify TAA petitions on an industry-wide basis, i.e. certify as eligible for TAA all workers within a domestic industry subject to a trade remedy under U.S. antidumping, countervailing or safeguard laws, or all workers laid off from an industry otherwise certified as being adversely-impacted by trade? What would be the effect on enrollment in the HCTC if the credit was increased to cover 80% of the cost of health insurance premiums? “The TAA program is an important component of our commitment to continually improving the ability of our workers to upgrade their skills and compete in the global economy,” said Smith. “I hope that the GAO will look at the serious issues that affect TAA and I will continue to work with my colleagues to pass real TAA reform.”
6.6.2006	Today, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) voted for H.R. 5441, the Homeland Security Appropriations for FY 2007. The bill appropriates $33.1 billion, an increase of five percent from FY 2006, including $19.6 billion for border security and immigration enforcement and $4.2 billion for port and cargo security, a 12% increase over this year. “While not perfect, I was pleased that this legislation increases funding for vital aspects of homeland security: our first responders and our ports,” said Smith (D-WA). “The $4.2 billion allocated for our ports and cargo security is an increase of $448 million from FY 2006 levels. Our ports are a vital part of our economic infrastructure and it’s critical that we provide the necessary funds to ensure that they receive the equipment and manpower necessary to be safe and efficient. The Port of Tacoma, in my District, as well as the entire Puget Sound region will benefit from these increased funds. As the nation’s sixth largest port by container volume, the Port of Tacoma handled over 2.1 million containers last year and continues to be a major economic engine in the state. It’s critical that we protect this important national asset.” The bill mandates the development of a strategy to double the amount of cargo currently inspected, screen 100% of cargo through the Automated Targeting System and establish minimum security standards for cargo containers. The bill further requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to double the amount of cargo entering the U.S. screened for radiation. Earlier this month, Smith helped pass the SAFE Port Act, H.R. 4954, of which he was an original co-sponsor. That legislation will enhance our security, improve the efficiency of trade and provide necessary funding for the critical missions of our Coast Guard, Customs and Border Agents, and others involved in the maritime industry. H.R. 5441 also provides $3.2 billion for first responders, including grants to high threat areas, firefighters and emergency management. “This bill also includes important funds for those on the frontlines each and every day in homeland security: our first responders,” said Smith. “Since September 11th, and including the funds in this bill, $37.4 billion has been provided to first responders. We must ensure that we are providing the necessary funds so that our first responders have the equipment and training to do their vitally important jobs. As this bill goes to conference, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure increased funding for port security and that our first providers have the funds they need to continue their vigilance and the good work that they perform each and every day.”
5.26.2006	The following is a statement from U.S. Rep. Adam Smith about the upcoming Memorial Day weekend: “As Americans across the country gather with friends and family to celebrate Memorial Day this weekend, we must all take the time to remember those who have served and continue to serve in the Armed Forces. We must also honor the ultimate sacrifice that thousands of American servicemembers have made over the history of this nation for the freedoms that we enjoy each and every day. Our men and women in uniform are engaged in conflicts around the world and are away from their families. I have been fortunate to travel to Iraq and witness, firsthand, the dedication with which our troops have served. On Monday, I encourage every citizen to take a moment to honor those who have sacrificed their lives for our nation, to give thanks for the servicemembers currently overseas, to be thankful for the peace that we have within our country and to pray for a more peaceful tomorrow.”
5.25.2006	Today, Congressman Adam Smith voted against the latest attempt by the Republican majority to allow drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) in Alaska. The bill on the House floor today, H.R. 5429, repeals the prohibition against production or leasing of oil and gas resources in ANWR and is similar to recent efforts to open the Coastal Plain of ANWR for exploration and drilling. Smith said, “Our country needs to develop a long term sustainable energy policy. It is in our national interest to become more energy self-sufficient. However, drilling in ANWR will not provide us with enough oil to reduce our dependence on Middle East oil in a meaningful way. Estimates show that drilling in ANWR would only account for six months of our nation’s entire oil supply, and that assumes we are able to extract every last drop of oil. The percentage of our oil supply that comes from domestic sources would increase by just a very small amount. Also, we could not even begin to use that oil for at least ten years. The bottom line is that we are dependent on oil, and this bill does nothing to reduce that dependence. Instead of drilling in ANWR, we must reduce our reliance on fossil fuels by developing real alternatives.” “I am committed to crafting an energy plan that focuses on the long term needs of our country,” said Smith. “A balanced, forward-thinking plan takes into account our dependency on fossil fuels, but also harnesses the technologies of the future, to make our current energy use far more efficient, and to develop new, cleaner sources of energy.” Smith also notes, “We have made great strides in the past 100 years in developing numerous technologies that have vastly improved our standard of living. Those accomplishments demonstrate our capability to take on any challenge by developing new innovations. We should work towards making the United States a net exporter of energy rather than a net importer within our children’s lifetime. With new energy sources such as solar panels, fuel cells, and geothermal under development, our country could one day serve as the largest energy provider to the world. We would fulfill not only our own energy needs, but have other countries rely on us to fulfill theirs, a complete reversal from the present situation we find ourselves in.” “The bill that was before the House today did not have the vision to lessen our dependence on oil,” said Smith. “I voted against this bill because we should make the commitment to developing alternative energy sources, not drilling in pristine nature reserves.”
5.25.2006	Today, Senator Maria Cantwell along with U.S. Rep. Adam Smith sent a letter to the Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao applauding the Department's decision to "allow, for the first time, workers who produce 'intangible products,' like software, to benefit from TAA [Trade Adjustment Assistance]," that "represents an important and long-overdue change in the Department's policy." However, the letter notes that the decision to extend TAA eligibility to workers who produce software "was made only after several years of litigation and represents just a small step towards ensuring that the TAA program meets the needs of today's diverse workforce." "This is fundamentally about fairness," said Cantwell. "In today's global market where so much of our economic growth is in the IT sector, we need to make sure that IT workers have access to the same retraining opportunities when they are displaced as other workers currently do. Every American worker deserves access to additional training and education so they can update their skills and continue to contribute to the growth of our economy." The letter also notes that legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Baucus and sponsored by Cantwell (S. 1309) and introduced in the House by Smith and Rangel (H.R. 4156) to extend TAA benefits to all service sector workers adversely impacted by foreign competition, "including information technology (IT) workers, engineers, customer services and call center employees." "Extending TAA benefits to all service workers must be a priority," said Smith. "Hard-working Americans will be better able to compete in the global marketplace if we make a real investment in education and retraining opportunities." The letter also urges support for efforts to broaden the eligibility criteria for TAA to include all service workers. "It is time for the U.S. Government to recognize that the global economy is changing," said Marcus Courtney, President of the Washington Alliance of Technology Workers, a local chapter of the Communications Workers of America. "Today service sector workers, like their manufacturing counterparts, need TAA assistance to retrain themselves to meet the changing demands of the labor market. Congress should use the new decision by the Department of Labor as the guide post that TAA program does need to include more workers and pass TAA reform legislation this year"
5.18.2006	Today, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) voted against the Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year (FY) 2007, House Concurrent Resolution 376. Smith made the following statement concerning his vote. “Each and every year that they have controlled Congress, the Republican majority has passed a budget that brings massive deficits and huge amounts of long-term debt. In January of 2001, a 10-year surplus of $5.6 trillion was projected. Five years later, in 2006, we have a projected deficit of $423 billion and an overall national debt of $8.3 trillion that continues to rise. Passage of today’s bill increases our debt limit by another $653 billion. This is a failure of leadership by the Republican majority and it is fiscally unsustainable. To have a fiscally responsible budget it must focus on three main areas of reform: tax reform, health spending and entitlement reform. In the area of taxes, the Republican majority budget reduces revenues by $228 billion over the next five years, with the majority of those benefits going to those Americans who make in excess of $200,000 per year. It is clear that we can not continue to spend at the current rate while reducing tax revenues through cuts which do not benefit the majority of Americans. Congress must re-look at our overall tax system, including tax cuts, in an effort to simplify our tax code and produce more revenue. Secondly, healthcare spending is out of control. We must look at the root causes of this dramatic increase in healthcare spending – such as rising prescription drug costs, inefficiencies in the healthcare system, and over util ization. Overall healthcare spending has risen faster than the rate of inflation with no end in sight and as a result, healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are increasing spending faster than almost any other part of the federal budget. By getting health care inflation under control, we can help balance the federal budget. Addressing our rising health care costs will help address the third issue in need of reform: entitlement spending. The Republican budget also fails to provide a reform agenda to meet the rising costs of our entitlement programs. Tackling health care inflation is a must to get the budget in order and we must also take a serious look at the costs associated with reforming Social Security. What the Republican budget does instead is to make severe cuts in a lot of small programs such as Community Oriented Policing Service (COPS) grants, Pell Grants and Community Development Block Grants. Cuts to these small programs cannot solely fix our growing national debt; this would only nibble at the edges of the problem while its impact would be drastic to our states and localities. Finally, the Republican budget fails to reinstate Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) rules. The PAYGO rules that were in place in the 1990s require any new mandatory spending or revenue legislation to be fully offset. PAYGO rules have proven effective in the past in eliminating budget deficits and a fiscally responsible budget must include these rules. This budget continues the fiscal irresponsibility continually demonstrated by the Republican majority. If we don’t show true leadership in our budgets, we will pass on these enormous debts to future generations of Americans. I voted against this bill because of its fiscal recklessness and its inability to address the needed reforms to get the American budget back on the path of fiscal responsibility.”
5.11.2006	“I am pleased that I supported H.R. 5122, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 Department of Defense (DoD) Authorization Bill, which passed out of the U.S. House of Representatives and onto the U.S. Senate with broad bipartisan support,” said U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Tacoma). “Our servicemen and women, and their families, sacrifice each and every day for the freedoms that we enjoy. This critical legislation fulfills the commitment we owe them, particularly in this time of war. Also included was $50 billion in so-called bridge funds to cover the first portion of war costs for the coming fiscal year. The war in Iraq has been ongoing for over three years and we have a good sense of the costs associated with operations there and in Afghanistan. It only makes sense to authorize this spending. While not perfect, this bill addresses many of the concerns that have been raised over the past few weeks while this bill has been debated both in the House Armed Services Committee, on which I serve, and on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Some of the highlights include additional funding for better equipped vehicles for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and for improvised explosive device (IED) protection.” Smith goes on to state, “last week, I announced several provisions and Puget Sound-based programs that I felt were important when this bill was passed out of the House Armed Services committee last week. A list of these provisions is located at on my Web site at: http://www.house.gov20060504pr.html.” The bill that passed tonight includes the provisions below: TRICARE for all Guard and Reservists The bill grants full, affordable access to TRICARE for all Guard and Reservists, regardless of activation or employment status.” This provision is a key aspect of an earlier bill that Smith introduced, H.R. 4468, which is a quality-of-life bill for Guard and Reservists. No TRICARE Fee Increases for Retirees The bill also rejected the Department of Defense’s (DoD) plan to increase TRICARE premiums and enrollment fees for retirees. The provision bars any fee increases in FY07 and creates a task force to study the potential impacts and savings generated by DoD’s plan. End Strength The bill provides for an overall end strength increase of 30,000 troops for the Army and 5,000 Marines for the Marine Corps. Additionally, the bill authorizes the Army National Guard at its full end strength of 350,000. Also, $300 million was added for National Guard equipment, ensuring that the Guard will be able to recruit, train and equip their forces at robust levels. Pay Increase Also included in the bill is a 2.7% pay raise for all service members, as well as targeted pay raises for warrant officers and senior and mid-grade noncommissioned officers. Impact Aid The bill authorizes $50 million for Impact Aid to assist schools that are located near military installations. In addition, $15 million is specifically intended for schools that receive additional students because of force structure changes due to the recent round of Base Realignments and Closures (BRAC). The bill authorizes additional funding for force protection needs in support of on-going Operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, including up-armored Humvees, Humvee IED protection kits and gunner protection kits, improved IED jammers and state-of-the-art body armor. Body Armor As mentioned above, the bill includes $930 million for continued production of enhanced body armor and body armor components. Additional funds continue rapid procurement of enhanced ballistic inserts, for greater troop protection. Vehicles The bill supports our frontline troops by increasing the strength of their vehicles to handle the dangerous situations that our servicemen and women face every day, engaged in locations around the world. Up-armor Humvees: An increase of $635.5 million addresses U.S. central Command’s requirements for more vehicles. Up-armor Humvee IED Fragmentation Kits and Gunner Protection Kits: An increase of $364 million buys kits that add protection to doors, door frames, fuel tanks, and underbody areas and provides added protection for turrets, such as “transparent armor” gun shields Armored Security Vehicle (ASV): An increase of $83 million for the ASV, which provides ballistic, overhead and landmine convoy protection. Jammers The bill also requires 100% of U.S. Military wheeled vehicles in harms way to have IED Jammers. In effect, the bill would require the Secretary of Defense to equip 100% of U.S. military wheeled vehicles operated in Iraq and Afghanistan outside of military compounds with effective IED jammers by the end of FY07. While jammers do not provide 100% protection against all threats, they have proven extremely effective saving lives and preventing injury to countless members of our armed forces.
4.19.2006	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement today about President Hu Jintao’s visit to Seattle and the United States: “I was pleased that President Hu visited Washington State as part of his state visit,” said Smith. “China and the Northwest are significant trading partners and this relationship holds many benefits for Washington State’s businesses and workers alike. Pursuing a mutually beneficial partnership with China is an important aspect of our efforts to further broad-based economic development. There are many areas in which the United States and China have a clear and shared interest. By working together to address nuclear issues with North Korea and Iran and by working on critically important environmental matters, I believe we can pave the way for a more peaceful and stable world. While I am pleased with the ongoing and deep relationship with China, I also understand that there are matters that present challenges. For example, I believe that China must make real progress toward complying with international trade obligations, including intellectual property rights, and currency valuations. I’m also concerned about China’s record on human rights. I’m optimistic that our two nations will continue to build upon the successes of our relationship and work towards mutually beneficial solutions to the issues that we face.”
4.4.2006	“I am pleased that I helped pass H.R. 5122, the Fiscal Year 2007 Department of Defense (DoD) Authorization bill, out of the House Armed Services Committee with broad bipartisan support,” said U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA). “While not perfect, this bill includes a number of provisions to support the members of our Armed Forces and our Veterans and also includes much-needed improvements in TRICARE, troop strength and pay increases. There are also a number of important Puget Sound-based programs that were included in the bill. The Puget Sound region continues to play an important role in the defense of our country. Also included was $50 billion in so-called bridge funds to cover the first portion of war costs for the coming fiscal year. The war in Iraq has been ongoing for over three years and we have a good sense of the costs associated with operations there and in Afghanistan. It only makes sense for our committee to authorize this spending. I will work with my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to ensure that the best authorization bill possible is enacted into law. This bill is too important for the servicemen and women, who sacrifice every single day for this country, to fall down to partisan politics.” Highlights of the important provisions included in the bill: TRICARE for all Guard and Reservists The bill grants full, affordable access to TRICARE for all Guard and Reservists, regardless of activation or employment status. This provision is part of an earlier bill that Smith introduced, H.R. 4468, which is a quality-of-life bill for Guard and Reservists. No TRICARE Fee Increases for Retirees The Committee rejected the DoD’s plan to increase TRICARE premiums and enrollment fees for retirees. The provision bars any fee increases in FY07 and creates a task force to study the potential impacts and savings generated by the DoD’s plan. End Strength The bill provides for an overall end strength increase of 30,000 troops for the Army and 5,000 Marines for the Marine Corps. Additionally, the bill authorizes the Army National Guard at its full end strength of 350,000. Also, $300 million was added for National Guard equipment, ensuring that the Guard will be able to recruit, train and equip their forces at robust levels. Pay Increase Also included in the bill is a 2.7% pay raise for all service members, as well as targeted pay raises for warrant officers and senior and mid-grade noncommissioned officers. Impact Aid The bill authorizes $50 million for Impact Aid to assist schools that are located near military installations. In addition, $15 million is specifically intended for schools that receive additional students because of force structure changes due to the recent round of Base Realignments and Closures (BRAC). IN THE PUGET SOUND REGION: Clear-Zone Funds for McChord A provision in the bill recommends $50.0 million for the Readiness and Environmental Protection Initiative (REPI), an increase of $30.0 million. The REPI will support an array of efforts, including acquisition of land and easements, for preventing undesirable development around military test and training ranges, while ensuring sound environmental stewardship. Five bases were named as possible receipients of these funds and three were located in Washington State: McChord Air Force Base, Fairchild Air Force Base and Naval Air Station Whidbey. Washington Air National Guard The bill includes $800,000 to finish planning and design for the construction of a new training and operations facility for the 262nd Information Warfare Aggressor Squadron (262 IWAS) at McChord Air Force Base. The new facility would allow for a higher quality, secure work and training space for the 262 IWAS, whose work involves replicating potential adversary Information Warfare capabilities. $1.65 million for Tacoma Trauma Trust -- Madigan Army Medical Center Trauma Assistance Program Smith was pleased to help authorize funding for this critical military-civilian emergency health care partnership facilitated by the Tacoma Trauma Trust (TTT), a unique military-civilian partnership (MultiCare Health System, Franciscan Health System and Madigan Army Medical Center). TTT shares in the delivery of critical Level II trauma care to South King, Pierce, Kitsap and Thurston counties and southwest Washington as well as much needed trauma training for medical personnel. $1.13 billion to fully fund President Bush’s request for the Multi-Mission Maritime Aircraft (MMA) This critical program would use specially equipped Boeing 737s, manufactured in Boeing’s Renton plant, in order to conduct defense and homeland security-related missions. The MMA will replace the aging fleet of Navy P-3C aircraft with a technologically superior mission system that will allow it to perform anti-submarine warfare missions, homeland security surveillance and other important functions. $3.0 million for “MRE High Pressure Processing Technology Demonstration” This program funds a technology demonstration program for high-pressure processing of military food rations. This technology, developed by Avure Technologies in Kent, WA, would assist the Army in its pursuit of advanced food preservation technologies to expand the variety and quality of combat rations for our soldiers. $1.0 million for “Advanced Boat Lifts for Navy Small Boats Program” These funds will help the Navy procure additional advanced hydraulic boat lifts that increase the lifespan and reduce maintenance costs for small boats in the Navy. The boatlifts, a product of Sunstream Corporation in Kent, WA, are currently being utilized in Naval bases around the country. $5.7 million for “Mid-Infrared Semiconductor Laser Technology for Aircraft Protection” This critical funding would enable the Air Force to conduct final tests and accelerated fielding of a laser technology to combat the most advanced man-portable surface-to-air missiles (MANPADS). The technology has been developed by Aculight in Bothel, WA. IMPORTANT TECHNOLOGY PROVISION: “I am pleased that this bill also included my provision for the National Defense University (NDU) Technology Pilot program,” said Smith. “Having worked for many years to improve our military and the Pentagon through the use of technology, I am proud to work with the experts at NDU who are continuing to leverage our technological innovations to maintain the most advanced military in the world." $1.0 million for National Defense University Technology Pilot Program - $1.0 million The purpose of this project is to conduct research and analysis to determine how the United States can maintain its competitive edge against other military adversaries at a time when commercial information technology (IT) is readily available on the global market. Through a series of workshops, conferences, research papers and publications, the NDU has developed new strategies to deal with this issue.
4.4.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-WA) gave the keynote address at the Distributed Diagnosis in Home Healthcare Conference (D2H2) held in Arlington, Virginia to discuss the importance of Health Information Technology (Health IT). The University of Washington is one of the main organizers for this national conference on health information technology. The purpose of the conference is to bring stakeholders together to discuss ways to improve the quality of care and patient wellness and outcomes by transforming the delivery of healthcare from a central, hospital-based system to one that is more patient-centered, distributed, and home-based for both the developed and developing countries. One of Smith’s top priorities is to provide access to quality, affordable health care. Smith believes that under the current paper-based healthcare system, patients and their doctors lack instant access to medical information. This lack of connectivity and shared knowledge leads to medical errors, increased costs, and inefficiency. At the conference, Smith noted, “recent advancements in health information technology and the use of electronic medical records allows for innovative collaboration where patients, doctors and health educators can be brought together online to discuss patients health care needs. The use of information technology can be used as a tool to increase the efficiency of the healthcare system, improve the quality of care for patients, and decrease costs to the federal government, which is facing record deficits.” Smith believes that Congress can play a significant role in helping the healthcare industry adopt electronic health records and utilize other health IT technologies. As Smith has noted in the past, one of the biggest barriers for physicians to use health IT is cost. Today, Smith said, “the federal government can help by providing funding, whether through grants for pilot projects, tax credits, or loans. The federal government can also help facilitate the growth of local, statewide, and regional health information networks so that providers in a particular community are able to communicate and share health data so that patients have seamless, continuous care among various providers. In addition, the federal government can help establish standards so that interoperability can be achieved. Lastly, Congress should enact strict privacy and security measures so that the integrity of patients’ health information is not compromised.” To this end, Smith, along with Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (R-WA) have introduced a bill H.R. 4331, the Medicaid Access Project Through Information Technology Bill (MAP IT). This legislation would authorize the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS) to conduct two-year pilot projects in selected states to demonstrate the beneficial impact of health IT on chronic-disease case management for the Medicaid population. The project, as proposed in the legislation, would give chronic-disease patients and caregivers access to their own medical records and enable them to track their own health information through personal health records. The project will also give patients access to a single source of information on chronic disease and include several channels of communication with health educators. In return, physicians and caregivers will have access to complete, current treatment and health-status information for chronic-disease patients, using a Web-based virtual-management tool. An effective health IT chronic-disease-management program, such as this one, could result in a more than 3-percent reduction in overall Medicaid program costs while improving the access and quality of care. “It’s appropriate that the University of Washington is a leader in organizing this conference,” said Smith after making his remarks today. “Washington State is a national leader on health IT. Madigan Army Hospital on Ft. Lewis, WA is one of only two sites in the United States where medical information is shared between the Department of Defense and the Veterans Administration. Already, the Northwest Physicians Network (NPN), based in Tacoma, and Inland Northwest Health Services (INHS), based in Spokane, are national models for the integration of health IT. The NPN is developing a network of health-care providers in the South Puget Sound area to share medical information over a Web-based system. INHS has a network of more than 35 sites in two states, and its use of electronic medical records and telemedicine allows for the delivery of long-distance diagnosis and quality health care to rural areas. Also, Group Health Cooperative in Seattle, WA is a national leader in terms of their implementation of personal health records for their patients, where patients are able to view their record and lab results online, make appointments online, and communicate with their doctor online.”
4.4.2006	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) submitted a statement for the Congressional Record with his support for H.R. 4954, the SAFE Port Act. The bill is a comprehensive, bi-partisan bill that will address one of the most significant challenges identified by the 9/11 Commission: an attack at our ports. As Smith said in his statement for the Floor, the legislation will “enhance our security, improve the efficiency of trade and provide necessary funding for the critical missions of our Coast Guard, Customs and Border Agents, and others involved in the maritime industry.” In his statement, Smith acknowledges the importance of the ports in Washington State, particularly the Port of Tacoma. He notes that “it is the nation’s sixth largest port by cargo container volume, it handled over 2.1 million containers last year and continues to be a major economic engine in the South Sound region.” Smith goes on to state that “the SAFE Port Act takes many critically important steps to prevent another terrorist attack on U.S. soil. This bill strengthens our domestic and international security efforts by making improvements to high-risk cargo targeting and tracking systems. The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to deploy nuclear and radiological detection systems to our major ports by the end of next year. Ports will also have the much needed resources they need through the Port Security Grant Program to improve facility security.” He also notes that “screening containers prior to its arrival at our U.S. ports is critical and I am pleased to see that the Department of Homeland Security is working to evaluate new radiological and other detection devices for use at foreign seaports. I believe these new technologies will arm our security officers with improved information and allow us to better protect our critical infrastructure. The bill also includes improvements to our international screening programs: the Container Security Initiative (CSI) and the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT).” The complete text of his statement is available on his Web site at http://www.house.gov/apps/list/hearing/wa09_smith/morenews/20060504fs.html The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 421 – 2.
3.7.2006	U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) was pleased that today the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amended version of HR 32, the Stop Counterfeiting in Manufactured Goods Act. The bill now goes to the White House where it is expected that President George W. Bush will sign it into legislation. The Stop Counterfeiting in Manufactured Goods Act would: 1. Expand the scope of trademark violations to include sale of counterfeit labels (patches, medallions, etc.) and; 2. Increase penalties for trademark violations so that not only the counterfeit products themselves would be seized and destroyed, as required by current law, but that assets gained from or used in the production and/or sale of counterfeit goods would also be seized and destroyed. “This bill is a step in the right direction,” said Smith. “Federal law enforcement officials estimate that sales of counterfeit goods now total approximately $500 billion a year. That’s a staggering figure that hurts commerce in the United States. This bill would not only help American businesses by cracking down on counterfeiters, but would also strengthen our hand in negotiating trade agreements with other countries where counterfeiting of U.S. products is a major problem. Having these stronger laws on the books in the U.S. will allow the U.S. Trade Representative to negotiate stronger trademark protections with our future trade partners.”
3.6.2006	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Wash) today introduced the Invest in America Act, saying it would bring billions in new investment to America and help spur our economy. Smith was joined by 15 original cosponsors: Reps. Cal Dooley (D-Calif.), Mike McIntyre (D-N.C.), Jim Turner (D-Texas), Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Silvestre Reyes (D-Texas), Jim Cooper (D-Tenn.), Chris John (D-La.), Ellen Tauscher (D-Calif.), Ed Case (D-Hawaii), Carolyn McCarthy (D-N.Y.), Stephanie Tubbs Jones (D-Ohio), Ron Kind (D-Wisc.), David Scott (D-Ga.) and Brian Baird (D-Wash.). The bill would encourage companies with foreign subsidiaries to return their foreign profits to the United States by offering a temporary reduction in the tax rate on foreign profits. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates passage of the bill would result in an additional $135 billion in investment in America. “The Invest in America Act meets the criteria for a sensible economy stimulus measure,” Smith said. “It encourages investment and job creation right away and is fiscally responsible, unlike the Republican proposals that fail to give the economy the jump-start it needs and instead will only increase the deficit and grow the national debt.” Republican Congressman Phil English has introduced a measure similar to Smith’s, and Smith will be working with him, and other interested Republicans, to see the proposal included in any final stimulus package that Congress passes.
1.31.2006	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) issued the following statement in response to President George Bush's State of the Union address this evening: "Tonight, the President failed to outline a bold, positive agenda for our nation. Instead, the speech was much of the same old rhetoric that has been the hallmark of his past State of the Union addresses. As gas prices are again on the rise, the President needs to focus on alternative fuels instead of towards greater dependence on polluting imported fossil fuels. Since Bush took office in 2000, the amount of foreign oil consumed in the United States has gone up to sixty-six percent from fifty-eight percent. Americans now spend $200,000 a minute on foreign oil and more than $25 billion annually goes to Persian Gulf states for oil imports. The Bush Administration's Energy Bill, passed last year, preserves the status quo and contains billions in subsidies for fossil fuels like oil, coal and gas; subsidies that do not make sense if we are serious about switching to alternative energy sources and lessening our dependence on foreign oil. As a nation, we must be prepared to invest in forward-thinking and emerging technologies, renewable energy, and energy efficiency and conservation. In tonight's speech, Bush failed to address one of the critical problems are nation faces: an irresponsible and out-of-control fiscal policy. Bush insists on making his tax cuts permanent, yet these cuts are targeted to help the wealthiest in our country, they do almost nothing to benefit the average American, and they worsen the nation's poor fiscal health. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the cost of making the tax cuts permanent is $3.4 trillion through fiscal year 2015. At a time when we have annual budget deficits approaching $500 billion and a national debt that exceeds $8 trillion, we cannot afford these tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. He also showed no plan for reining in government spending and he appears content to simply continue his fiscally irresponsible policies. President Bush also failed to provide America tonight with a vision to adequately address the growing health care crisis that faces the nation. Health care inflation is rising at a rate of approximately 15 percent a year, and yet he gave us no plan for controlling health care costs. In order to ensure the competitiveness of our businesses and the vibrancy of our economy, we must control the cost of health care. He discussed relatively minor policy changes that will have a limited impact on what is clearly a large-scale problem. In doing so, he's demonstrated that he has neither the will nor the creativity to deal with the central and urgent challenges faced by million of American families. We need to do better and the Bush Administration needs to lay out a health policy that controls costs and also helps all Americans get the health insurance that they deserve. Tonight's speech discussed energy independence, our economy and our health care system, yet the proposals that the President discussed tonight do not address the fundamental issues that Americans face. In the State of the Union, Bush had the opportunity to layout a serious and thoughtful vision for the future: a future for Americans that includes investments in the latest technologies to decrease our dependence on foreign oil, a future that includes a significantly reduced national debt and a health care system that doesn't leave 45 million Americans uninsured. President Bush did not do this. Rather, he laid out policies that maintain the status quo regarding our dependence on foreign oil, no plan to curb our spending and no effective plan to help the millions of uninsured Americans. We need real solutions to these important and difficult problems and the President failed to provide the American people with policies that will address these issues."
1.11.2006	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) today issued the following statement on H.R. 3, a bill to expand federal funding for embryonic stem cell research. The bill passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 253 to 174. “More than 70 percent of Americans support stem cell research. House Democrats promised to expand funding for this potentially life-saving and life-changing science. I’m pleased to report that in the first 100 hours of the 110th Congress, we made good on our promise. “Local institutions like the Fred Hutchison Cancer Research Center and the University of Washington could benefit from passage of this bill, so I hope we can get it to the President’s desk quickly. President Bush should listen to the will of the people and sign it without delay.”
12.19.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement concerning his vote against the Budget Reconciliation: “Last month, I voted against the House version of the budget reconciliation bill. At that time, I pledged to work with my colleagues to craft legislation that will balance our budget, while also maintaining access to health care and education for all Americans. The conference report before the House remains deeply flawed and fails to meet the goals that I laid out in November. This bill cuts an estimated $39.7 billion over five years from vital services like Medicaid, food stamps, and the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) programs which directly help disadvantaged Americans. This legislation also adds new fees and higher interest rates for student loans, harming those who are seeking to gain an education. These students are the next generation of innovators and it is through their achievements that our nation will remain competitive in the global marketplace. This is unacceptable. While I strongly believe in fiscal discipline, we should not balance the budget on the backs of those Americans that need help the most. This simply is not consistent with the priorities and values of the American people. The majority’s claims that this measure will help balance the budget are hypocritical at best. This is reckless policymaking from a party that once claimed to believe in fiscal responsibility, and it comes at a time when the national debt exceeds $8 trillion and the annual cost of interest on the debt has increased to over $300 billion a year.”
12.19.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement tonight concerning his vote against the Fiscal Year 2006 Defense Appropriations Bill: “Our servicemen and women are serving overseas and, as such, it’s critically important that their government provides them all the support they need: logistically, financially and by letting them know we honor their sacrifice,” said Smith. “I have consistently supported Defense Appropriations bills because, each year, this measure provides the funding to ensure our military has the best tools and equipment possible. As an elected official, I take seriously my responsibility to make sure our troops have all the resources they need. But tonight, the Republican majority, through a backroom deal, brought forward a defense bill that includes an unrelated and controversial provision to allow drilling in one of the last pristine natural reserves in our country: the Artic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). The contentious matter of whether or not to begin drilling in Alaska has no place in a bill that funds the Department of Defense. The needs of our troops serving in combat should never be subject to such cynical politics. I am disappointed that the majority is willing to play games with this important legislation and, for this reason, I could not support this deeply flawed bill. I voted against this bill in hopes that it would be sent back to conference committee where controversial provisions would be stripped out and then a clean bill could be sent to the floor expeditiously. I would then vote for that clean bill. Each year, funds for the Department of Defense must be both authorized and appropriated in separate pieces of legislation. While I voted against the appropriations measure, I was proud to support this year’s FY06 Defense Authorization bill, which also passed the House. I will continue my efforts on the House Armed Services Committee to advocate for the best interests of those serving our nation.”
12.19.2005	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) was pleased to vote for the fiscal year 2006 Defense Authorization Act Conference Report. The bill authorizes a total of $441.5 billion for programs in the bill which include all the activities of the Department of Defense (DoD) and the nuclear weapons activities of the Department of Energy, among others. The bill also includes an additional $50 billion authorization for a “bridge fund” to fund the ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan for six months, until a further formal supplemental request for these costs can be considered next year. The language against prisoner abuse by Senator John McCain (R-AZ) was included in the legislation. The language prohibits all U.S. personnel, including agents of the Central Intelligence Agency and other civilians, from engaging in torture, or cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment of foreign detainees by the government. “As a conferee that helped shape the conference report, I was pleased with the McCain language in the report that sends a clear signal to the rest of the world that the United States is unequivocally stating that torture and mistreatment do not work and that they are not representative of American ideals or values. This is a critically important provision in the legislation.” The Conference Report also adopts a Sense of the Congress that says 2006 should be a period of significant transition to full Iraqi sovereignty, with Iraqi security forces taking the lead for the security of a free and sovereign Iraq, thereby creating the conditions for a phased redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq. It also creates quarterly reporting requirements until all combat brigades have been redeployed from Iraq. Provisions for our servicemen and women were also included in the report. Some of these provisions include a 3.1% pay raise for all uniformed service members and for the first time ever, all reservists who agree to continue service in the Selected Reserves will have an opportunity, depending on their status, to buy into a government subsidized TRICARE Standard health care program for themselves and their families. Finally, the conference report increases the bonuses for enlistment and reenlistment and raises the eligible enlistment age to 42. “This bill is a positive step forward in providing for the needs of our brave servicemen and women serving at home and around the world,” said Smith. “They are the ones who are willing to make the ultimate sacrifice and ensuring that we take of them, as well as their families, is the least we can do.”
12.17.2005	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) was pleased that H.R. 3402, which reauthorizes the Department of Justice (DOJ) programs for fiscal years 2006-2009, passed the House of Representatives. The bill would authorize approximately $24.4 billion for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and $3.4 billion for the U.S. Marshals Service, which is charged with protecting federal courthouses and our domestic airliners, among other duties. Another $3.9 billion is authorized for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. I am proud to announce that the DOJ bill includes an important provision that creates the Crystal Judson Domestic Violence Protocol Program. This program would provide funding to law enforcement agencies, nonprofit nongovernmental victim services providers and State, tribal, and local governments for the development and implementation of training for local victim domestic violence service providers. This program would also fund victim service personnel, to be known as “Crystal Judson Victim Advocates,” which provide support services and advocacy for victims of domestic violence committed by law enforcement personnel. “I am extremely pleased that this bill creates and authorizes the Crystal Judson Domestic Violence Protocol Program,” said Smith. “Domestic violence knows no boundaries and it’s important that victims receive the help and support they need. We can all learn from the tragic and unnecessary death of Crystal Judson that anyone who commits acts of domestic violence must be held accountable and that, as a nation, we must do better to prevent violence and protect our citizens.”
12.16.2005	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) voted against H.R. 4437, the Border Protection, Antiterrorism & Illegal Immigration Control Act. The bill claims to increase security at the international border and at ports of entry into the United States. It changes immigration law by making illegal presence in the country a criminal offense, increasing penalties for immigration-related offenses and allowing new grounds for the deportation of immigrants who commit certain crimes. “I believe in a sound and reasonable immigration policy that strengthens our homeland security,” said Smith. “We need real immigration reform that decreases the number of illegal immigrants entering this country, punishes businesses that hire illegal immigrants and will provide greater security for our borders. This bill fails to meet that standard. Also, the immigration reform bill before the House today is fiscally irresponsible and puts a further strain on our overburdened first responders. The bill would dramatically increase the burden on our legal system by automatically detaining all illegal immigrants and holding them indefinitely. The cost of building new facilities and the needed legal infrastructure surrounding the number of detainees is astronomical.” Smith goes on to note, “Of even further concern to me is that an amendment was attached to the bill that expands the existing authority for state and local law enforcement personnel to apprehend, detain, remove and transport illegal immigrants in the routine course of their duties. I’m concerned that this added burden will take away from their needed duties to fight crime and keep our streets safe. They have critically important duties to attend to like protecting our communities and fighting meth and should not also be forced to assume the federal government’s responsibility for catching illegal immigrants.”
12.16.2005	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and John Lewis (D-GA), along with 18 co-sponsors, introduced the High Performance Buildings (HPB) Act of 2005. The legislation is aimed at helping millions of families living in affordable housing units. The bill encourages communities to include sustainable development in their strategic housing plans and provides grants to non-profit organizations that increase sustainable development capacity in low-income communities. It also establishes an institute at the National Science Foundation to research indoor environmental quality and its effect on health and productivity, as well as to encourage the development and deployment of innovative energy-saving techniques. "I have long been a proponent of incorporating new technologies and innovative ideas to improve the daily lives of Americans,” said Smith. “This bill provides the incentives to study the impact of sustainable development models and how these techniques can improve the quality of life for millions of American families. This bill also has the added benefit of creating more energy efficient construction which will reduce our nation’s energy dependence by encouraging innovation in building technologies." "One of the ways to make a community more livable is to incorporate principles of sustainability into real life practice,” said Blumenauer. “Buildings are the second largest consumer of energy in the country. The sooner we implement changes to make buildings more energy inefficient, the sooner we will see the dividends of our investment." Residential and commercial buildings account for nearly two-thirds of our nation’s electricity consumption and more than one-third of our total energy use. Sustainable architecture addresses this challenge through creating buildings that use significantly more energy-efficient materials and designs. "As the largest consumer of energy in the world, “ said Rep. Lewis, “the United States must find viable ways to conserve the resources of this little piece of real estate we call Earth. We are not here to stay. We are simply stewards of the land, the water, and the air and all their precious bounty. As a nation and as a people, we have to find ways to live in harmony with nature, to use her resources wisely, and in ways that help preserve and conserve natural resources for generations yet unborn. This bill is one important step toward demonstrating the practical benefits of energy conservation to American citizens. Residents of sustainable housing will save money on their energy bills, and at the same time they will help extend the longevity of valuable natural commodities for the benefit of all Americans and generations yet to come."
12.15.2005	Today, U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) voted for H.R. 2830, the Pension Protection Act of 2005. HR 2830 is a comprehensive pension reform bill that would apply to both single- and multi-employer pension plans. The bill would increase the funding requirements for defined pension benefit plans, shorten the period of time over which funding shortfalls must be eliminated, require sponsors to disclose more information about pension funding, restrict benefit payments and benefit accruals in underfunded plans, and increase the premiums that plan sponsors pay to the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC). “I supported this legislation because we need to ensure that American workers pensions are protected,” said Smith. “Americans have worked too hard, for too long, to lose their pensions overnight. Voting for this legislation takes a step in the right direction.” In general, plans would be required to fund 100% of their “funding target” which under current law is referred to as the plan’s “current liability.” The plan would have to repay any funding shortfalls over seven years. Under current law, a plan’s unfunded liability can be repaid over periods of up to 30 years. Additionally, this bill would raise the base annual PBGC premium from $19 to $30 per participant per year. For those plans that are 60% or less funded, benefits would be frozen and no new benefits could be earned until the company reached a funding level of at least 80%. It is Smith’s hope that the bill will help ensure greater transparency and accountability in the PCBG, inclusion of shutdown benefits for older wokers, and the overall tightening of rules so that companies will meet their financial obligations to their employees and retirees. “Although I voted for today’s legislation, it is my hope that in the Conference Committee process, many of the concerns that I have will be addressed,” Smith continued. Smith expressed concern that these reforms could encourage employers to terminate their pension plans and in turn, the PBGC will pick up the tab for these pensions. He noted the cases of the airline and steel industries, where pension plans that are taken over by the PBGC were bad for taxpayers as well as workers. He further stated that because the PBGC will only guarantee a capped amount per person, employees may end up receiving less money than what they were originally promised. Smith also regrets that the bill lacks language to ensure fairness between pensions for workers and executives. “I believe that the objective of pension reform should be to strengthen retirement security for workers and retirees, while also addressing the economic pressures facing businesses today,” said Smith. “It is also my hope that the airline industry specific language in the Senate version of this bill will be included in the final Conference Report. I will continue to work with my colleagues to create policy that helps retirees keep the pensions that they have earned and allows businesses to flourish in the dynamic U.S. economy.”
12.14.2005	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) voted against H.R. 3010, the conference report for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act for FY06. “This conference report is the latest example that the Republican majority in Congress is out of touch with the values and needs with the majority of Americans,” said Smith. “As a matter of fact, the Republicans will have spent more on tax cuts this year than they will on all education and labor programs. This is unacceptable.” The No Child Left Behind (NCLB) program, an important tool in rehabilitating America’s troubled public schools, is cut by more than $700 million. Funding for Title I, which is the core of NCLB’s efforts to improve reading and math skills for disadvantaged children, received the smallest increase for Title I in 8 years, which means 3.1 million low-income children will be negatively affected by this cut. Also, Pell Grants, which help many lower-income students attend college, remain at $4,050 for the 4th straight year, despite the 35% increase in college costs since 2001. “States and local school districts are also hurt by this bill,” said Smith. “The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) Part B state grants received the smallest increase in a decade – this is a step backward in the effort to fully fund IDEA.” Smith also said, “As a supporter of innovation and technology to help educate Americans, I was disappointed to see that the Education Technology Program was cut by $221 million or 45%,” said Smith. “When the United States is struggling to maintain its technological edge in the face of ever greater global competition, these policy decisions not only hurt American families and businesses, but also our long-term economic strength.” With record prices for electricity and gas, Americans are going to need help heating their homes this winter and yet the Republican majority failed to increase funding for LIHEAP home heating assistance, which helps keep the heat on for low-income seniors and children. “I will continue to work with my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, on a positive agenda that moves America forward and that helps all Americans, through commonsense, fiscally sound spending legislation. I will work to develop policy that educates more people and that provides assistance to those that need it the most,” said Smith.
12.14.2005	Today, U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement on his vote against the Patriot Act Conference Report: “Four years ago, I joined with my colleagues in voting for the Patriot Act. The United States had just suffered a catastrophic event at the hands of terrorists and we were in an emergency situation. Almost unanimously, Congress passed the Patriot Act to ensure that our law enforcement officials had the tools they needed to combat terrorism. Over the past four years, we have been able to more fully review the Patriot Act and determine which parts need to be re-worked to preserve and fully protect, not erode, our rights and liberties. Let me be clear that I support reauthorizing the Patriot Act, but I cannot support the deeply flawed version of the conference report that was before the House today. Had a few changes been made to this bill – some of which are outlined below – I believe that a broad, bipartisan group of representatives could have supported this important bill. However, conferees chose to ignore important recommendations from Republican and Democratic Members alike and instead crafted a bill that undermines key civil liberties. I sincerely regret that the conferees did not make a more full and rigorous effort in this regard. The Patriot Act expanded the circumstances under which the federal government can obtain a warrant to search or otherwise gather information about people in this country. Specifically, the conference report continues to allow law enforcement officials to access information, such as library and bookstore records, from any business or individual holding them. This can be done as long as the officials assert, through a “statement of facts” that the records are “relevant” to an investigation. But there is no standard of relevancy included in the bill. Also, the conference report continues to allow federal authorities to use “national security letters” to request customer records from communications companies and financial institutions for an investigation, whether or not the investigations pertain to a foreign power or agent. I believe that for many of the intrusive provisions in the original Patriot Act, including Sections 215 and 505, a federal agent should be required to show specific and demonstratable facts that the records or information being sought in foreign intelligence investigations are relevant to a suspected terrorist, spy or other foreign agent before he or she can obtain a court order for those records. This bill failed to meet this standard. Another area of concern for me is under Section 206 of the Patriot Act that involves roving wiretaps. I am a strong believer that wiretaps in terrorist investigations should be held to the same standard as in a criminal wiretap where under existing federal laws, the time for interception is limited to a specific period of time where it is reasonable to assume that the target of the probe has used the instrument under wiretap surveillance. This is an important step in limiting the interception of innocent persons’ communications. The majority party in the House also had the audacity to attach important methamphetamine legislation to the conference report. There is a vast methamphetamine epidemic raging in many states, including Washington, and attaching this legislation to the unrelated Patriot Act conference report politicizes the issue of our national security. This is politics at its worst. I support the methamphetamine legislation. I was a co-sponsor of this legislation and it was my hope that we could have passed this bi-partisan bill with a separate vote and a full debate. But I could not vote for the Patriot Act – and in doing so threaten the rights of many Americans – simply because the Republican leadership cynically added to it the methamphetamine bill. We must provide our law enforcement officials with the necessary tools they need to combat terrorism, and I believe we can do so while also protecting our important civil rights. Sadly, this goal was not met by the conference report of the Patriot Act. There is no guarantee that the Patriot Act, in its present form, will prevent abuses of our freedoms. For this reason, among others, I chose to vote against the Conference Report and the reauthorization of the Patriot Act.”
12.8.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) introduced the “Enhancing America’s Guard and Reserve” (EAGR) Act, H.R. 4468. This bill is a comprehensive package of benefits aimed at increasing the quality-of-life of members of America’s National Guard and Reserve and their families. The bill would provide universal access to military health care (TRICARE) for all drilling reservists, enhanced education benefits through the Montgomery G.I. Bill, retirement age reductions, tax breaks for employers who hire reservists, and other beneficial provisions. These enhanced benefits will go a long way toward improving retention and recruitment, as well as the morale and readiness of our Guard and Reserve members. “The members of our National Guard and Reserve and their families make sacrifices every day so that all Americans can enjoy the freedom and peace that we have,” said Smith. “With over 40 percent of U.S. personnel in Afghanistan and Iraq serving as National Guard and Reserve members, the role of reservists has changed, and they now play a central role in our military operations. They are doing an outstanding job at home and overseas, however, the stress and strain on our Guard and reservists and their families is evident. The least we can do to ensure that our Guard and Reserve members have the very best support and benefits available in return for their enormous sacrifice.” Below is a summary of the bill’s main provisions: TRICARE for Guard and Reserve The proposal extends access to military health care (TRICARE) to all Guard and Reserve members in drilling status. Currently, Guard and Reserves members can access TRICARE benefits for only for a limited time after they’ve been on a major deployment. Montgomery G.I. Bill Enhancements The bill would nearly double the current amount of educational assistance for Guard and Reservists under the Montgomery G.I. Bill for Selected Reserve (MGIB-SR) program. For example, reservists eligible for MGIB-SR and attending school full-time would see their benefits jump from the current $295 per month to $517 per month. The bill would also provided even greater increases in MGIB benefits to Guard and Reservists who are called to active duty for deployments of 90 days, 1 year, or 2 years. Finally, the bill ties each of these enhanced benefits to an existing index so that benefits would keep up with the rising cost of education. Retirement Age The EAGR Act would reduce the retirement age one year for every year of service past twenty years. Tax Breaks for Companies with Guard-Reserve Employees The EAGR Act would extend a tax credit on benefits that employers who make up any disparity their employees suffer as a result of activation. The bill also reimburses state and local governments who also provide a similar benefit to their Guard and Reservist employees. Federal Employees The EAGR Act would entitle a Federal employee who is a member of the Guard or Reserve to receive the difference in pay between military compensation and civilian compensation during periods of active duty exceeding 30 days. Space Available Flights Also included in the legislation is a provision to expand availability of space available flights for members of the Guard and Reserve. Authority to Compensate for Telecommuting Performed in Inactive Status Current law does not allow for members of the Guard and Reserve to be credited for work they do from home. My bill would authorize compensation for a Guard or Reserve member performing duty authorized by the appropriate military authority whether under direct military control of performing assigned duties from home on a computer. The bill would only allow telecommuting credit to account for no more than 2 days (16 hours) of their 8-day requirement per quarter.
12.2.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement today following his return from a recent trip to Iraq where he visited with troops, military leaders and Iraqi government officials: “Our troops deserve the highest praise for their hard work and dedication to their mission in Iraq. Over and over again, I encountered our servicemen and women and witnessed their dedication to their mission and to the Iraqi people. Despite the difficulties they face, they are working nobly and earnestly to help make Iraq a better and safer place. I join with all Americans in saluting our troops in Iraq. Progress is being made in Iraq. However, the Bush Administration’s failure of leadership has made the tasks of our servicemen and women more difficult than it had to be. Disbanding the Iraqi army, failing to adequately plan for winning the peace and our arrogant, unilateral approach to the reconstruction of Iraq were just a few of several large mistakes. Elections for a new democratically-elected Iraqi government will occur on December 15th. After those elections, we must move quickly to turn over more responsibility to that government. While I think it’s problematic to immediately withdraw our troops, I recognize that our presence in Iraq is also a unifying force that brings together ex-Saddam loyalists, disgruntled Sunnis, and foreign terrorists. Our troops have become the rallying point of the insurgency that they have been asked to contain. Reducing our troop levels and making it clear we will not have permanent military bases in Iraq will undercut the insurgents’ support by showing Iraqis that we are not there as occupiers. By reducing our troops in an orderly way after this election, it will give the government more legitimacy by showing that they are truly responsible for stabilizing their country. The strain on our troops is evident and our military is stretched too thin. We need to accelerate and enhance the training of Iraqi troops in order to make Iraqis responsible for their own security. As Iraqis stand up more competent security forces, we can drawdown our forces more quickly so that Iraqis have a clear signal that we are leaving, and so the Iraqi government becomes less dependent on U.S. protection. Regardless of why we went to war or what mistakes have been made thus far in Iraq, we must focus now on getting it right, as failure could mean a greater threat down the road. But we must also be realistic about our goals and move swiftly to achieve them so that we can bring our troops home as soon as possible.”
11.18.2005	Today, U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) voted for the Conference Report on the FY 2006, Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. This bill rectifies the shortfall in veterans’ health care and also included Smith’s request for a $1.42 million earmark for construction of the Homeland Security Multi-Functional Education Center at Camp Murray, near Tacoma, Washington. “Included in today’s bill was an additional $1.2 billion to remedy the shortfall in veterans’ health care for this year,” said Smith. “This funding is a result of Democrats working with veterans’ organizations throughout the year to put the pressure on the Republican leadership to make sure that veterans get the benefits they deserve. Smith also notes that, “more than 50,000 veterans are waiting in line for at least six months for veterans’ health care, and the number of new enrollees waiting for their first appointment has increased by over 500 percent in the last year. That problem will only get worse with the growing numbers of returning soldiers from Iraq and Afghanistan. It is long past time for veterans to get the health care funding that they deserve.” Also included in the bill was a $1.42 million earmark for construction of the Homeland Security Multi-Functional Education Center at Camp Murray. This funding would go toward the construction of a 6,190 square foot, single story multi-functional Homeland Security educational center. “The lack of proper facilities has a negative impact and individual readiness of our Guardsmen and women,” said Smith. “This directly improves the readiness of Army National Guard units as well as first responders in the supported area.” Training is currently being conducted in a WWII-era wooden building modified to administrative and educational spaces, without adequate sanitary facilities, HVAC, fire protection, or functional work space. The new facility will support the 205th Training Regiment of the Washington Army National Guard, which has the mission of training Guard units in the Pacific Northwest.
11.18.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement concerning the Budget Reconciliation: “Today, the Republican majority, once again, forced critically important legislation through the House with no bi-partisan support and by a vote of 217-215. In order to offset anticipated tax cuts of over $100 billion, the House Reconciliation bill cuts an estimated $50 billion over five years from vital services like Medicaid, food stamps, and the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) programs which directly help disadvantaged Americans. While I strongly believe in fiscal discipline, we should not balance the budget on the backs of those Americans that need help the most, while giving the most affluent in our country additional tax breaks. This simply is not consistent with the priorities and values of the American people. It is truly disturbing that the Republican leadership thinks it is a good idea to increase the federal debt and slash funds to important programs and initiatives crucial to the most vulnerable in our society. Astonishingly, when combined with the proposed new tax cuts, the Republican budget policies could increase the deficit by $100 billion. The majority’s claims that this measure will help balance the budget are hypocritical at best. This is reckless spending from a party that once claimed to believe in fiscal responsibility, and it comes at a time when the national debt exceeds $8 trillion and the annual cost of interest on the debt has increased to over $300 billion a year. I will continue to work with my colleagues, from both sides of the aisle, to craft legislation that seeks to balance our budget, while also maintaining access to health care and education for all Americans. Together, America can do better than a deficit reduction bill that fails to live up to the values of America’s working families.”
11.18.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement concerning the resolution to immediately withdraw all troops from Iraq: “Yesterday, Congressman John Murtha spoke out on our nation’s policy on Iraq. When it comes to defense policy, John Murtha is one of the most respected Members of Congress. He is a decorated Marine who served for 37 years and did three tours in Vietnam. Few in Congress have done more than John Murtha to improve our nation’s security, provide protection and equipment for our troops and make our military the strongest in the world. I have the greatest respect for his expertise and his commitment to our troops. The resolution that was before the House today was not John Murtha’s proposal. The Republican proposal we had to vote on was grossly irresponsible, as it called for the immediate withdrawal of all U.S. military forces from Iraq. Any withdrawal must be done in a thoughtful and deliberate manner which is not reflected in the resolution before the House. We need to develop a real and effective strategy for handing over to the Iraqis responsibility for running their nation. This resolution was a blatant political ploy that does a disservice not only to the House but to our troops serving in Iraq. In one week, I am making my second trip to Iraq. While there, I will meet with soldiers and military leaders on the ground. It is important for me to gain this firsthand information in order to determine the best way forward. Congress needs to have a serious debate on Iraq policy, including hearings and floor debates. Tonight’s resolution was a political stunt that did not contribute to the sorely needed dialogue on such an important issue.”
11.18.2005	Today, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) voted for the conference report on the Fiscal Year 2006 Transportation, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, and the District of Columbia. This bill provides funding for these federal agencies and the District of Columbia. “In a difficult budget year, I was pleased that I was able to secure funding for two high priority projects, the Foss Waterway Development Authority in Tacoma ($200,000) and a transit facility/parking garage near Highline Community College ($850,000),” said Smith. “The funds will be used to make these important assets in our community more accessible to the public.” The funding to the Foss Waterway Development Authority will be used to supplement a similar sized contribution by the City of Tacoma to restore an historic city wharf and construct a public esplanade. Once these funds are dedicated, an additional $15.4 million in private funding will be used to restore an adjacent historic building, part of which sits on the wharf, and that houses a non-profit maritime museum and education facility. The funds for the transit facility will be used to fund an initial study, planning and design of the Intermodal transit facility and parking garage for Southwest King County and Highline Community College. “This project is important to the community and will dramatically improve transit and vehicular access for Highline Community College students as well as commuters,” said Smith. “Located next to the college, the facility will be a transit hub and will hold approximately 600 parking spots. Transit accessibility is an important component of reducing stress on employees and students as well as providing enhanced transit and transportation options for the surrounding community.” Construction for the facility is scheduled to begin in 2006. The facility will provide essential access to transit service for local residents and offer transit transfer options for commuters, patients and students of Highline Hospital and Highline College. It will also offer park-and-ride options for commuters, connections and storage for bicycle commuters, and dedicated stalls for van pool/ car pool parking and community flex cars.
11.17.2005	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) voted against H.R. 3010, the conference report for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act for FY06. He made the following statement: “I was pleased that today Congress rejected this conference report, the latest example that the Republican majority in Congress is out of touch with the values of the American people. This legislation failed because it does not address the critical needs that exist today. We need to create policies that allow for greater innovation, expanded educational opportunity, improved public health and important medical research. This legislation clearly failed to meet that standard. It is my hope that when this bill is reconsidered in Conference Committee, Members from both sides of the aisle will work on a positive agenda that moves America forward. Too many citizens rely on important federal programs in this bill, like Safe and Drug Free Schools, Pell Grants, Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and job training programs – to name a few – for this legislation to be held up by the Majority’s extreme politics and ineffective governing. I will continue to work with my colleagues to develop policy that is not only fiscally sound but that represents the priorities of the American people.”
11.15.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today introduced the Medicaid Access Project through Information Technology (MAP IT). The bill will allow for the creation of a demonstration project that will provide a more efficient and effective system for managing chronic disease by using health information technology on disease management for the Medicaid population. “Under the current paper-based healthcare system, patients and their doctors lack instant access to medical information,” said U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09). “This lack of connectivity and shared knowledge leads to medical errors, increased costs, and inefficiency. This pilot project would leverage information technology as a tool to increase the efficiency of the healthcare system, improve the quality of care for Medicaid patients and it will decrease costs to states and the federal government, which are facing record deficits.” The demonstration project will give chronic disease patients and caregivers access to their own medical records and to a single source of information on chronic disease. The program will include several channels of communication with health educators, as well as a Personal Health Record, to allow patients to record and track their own health information. Information and access methods will be tailored to the patient’s needs. Physicians and other caregivers will have access to complete, current treatment and health status information for chronic disease patients, using the virtual case management tool. “One of my top priorities is to provide access to quality, affordable health care,” said U.S. Rep. Cathy McMorris (WA-05). “Recent advancements in health information technology and the use of electronic medical records allows for innovative collaboration where patients, doctors and health educators can be brought together online to discuss patients health care needs. By providing online access for managing chronic disease, we can improve health care for Medicaid recipients and provide states with an alternative to cutting services or raising taxes.” Combined federal and state spending on Medicaid over the next ten years is estimated to be $14.5 trillion. The federal government has proposed significant reductions in funding for Medicaid. This increases the financial burden on states, forcing them to either decrease Medicaid enrollment and services, or raise taxes. Expenses from the care of individuals with chronic conditions are a major part of state Medicaid budgets. Facilitating access to chronic disease management program through information technology would save states money on their overall Medicaid budget. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will select at least four proposals to perform the demonstration projects from those submitted by states. The demonstrations will be for two years with an evaluation afterwards to determine the amount of cost savings resulting from the project.
11.11.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement today in honoring Veteran’s Day: “Today, we honor the men and women who have served in the United States military from the days of the America Revolution to today, when our servicemen and women are engaged around the world. We have the best-trained, most dedicated military force in the world. Each day they demonstrate that they are the very best and brightest of our nation. I'm proud to represent so many servicemembers and their families. I honor the sacrifice that so many veterans have made for the freedoms we enjoy today. As the members of our military continue to stand in harm’s way to defend liberty and protect the innocent, I remain humbled by their service and commitment to our values. As we celebrate this Veteran’s Day, let us remember those in the past who defended America and her interests abroad and those who work today to protect our freedom and our democracy.”
11.10.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) is pleased to announce that he helped secure more than $4 million in federal funds from the Science, State, Justice, and Commerce Appropriations bill that recently passed the House of Representatives. Of note, Smith received $100,000 for the Valley Cities Regional Wireless Network and $750,000 for the Washington Association of Sheriffs and Police Chiefs (WASPC) for the DNA Stranger Rape Pilot Program. “The Valley cities of Auburn, Renton, Tukwila, Kent, Algona, Pacific, Puyallup, Sumner and Fife comprise one of the most dynamic regions in Washington State,” said Smith. “It’s exciting that these cities are coming together to create a wireless network that will allow local law enforcement access to better and quicker information while in the field, and increasing public safety for all of the communities in the Valley. I’m pleased that the money I was able to secure will help fund a feasibility study to determine how a regional wireless network could be installed, operated and maintained to benefit the region.” Smith also discussed the $750,000 that was received for the WASPC’S “DNA Stranger Rape Pilot Program.” “As a former prosecutor, I know that we must do all we can to prevent violent crime in our region and this program will help solve and prevent stranger rapes in our state by requiring DNA testing to be completed and compared to DNA databases within 30 days of a stranger rape occurring,” said Smith. “The funds I was able to secure will be used to help run the pilot program for two years. I hope that state and local governments decide this is an effective program and will then continue to fund it.” Other earmarks include the following: * $1.5 Million for the World Vision Youth Outreach Workers, World Vision US * $100,000 the Pierce County Youth Assessment Center, A Chance To Change * $250,000 for the Gang Intervention Program, Muckleshoot Indian Tribe * $2 million - WA State Meth Initiative
11.9.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement today concerning, H. Res. 505, Requesting the President of the United States and directing the Secretary of State to provide to the House of Representatives certain documents in their possession relating to the White House Iraq Group (WHIG): “Once again, the Republicans in control of the U.S. House of Representatives bowed to partisan politics and rejected a resolution that would have provided Congress with key information about whether the White House was truthful with the American people in making their case to go to war in Iraq. This resolution would compel the White House to turn over to Congress all documents related to the WHIG, providing Members with an opportunity to examine important aspects of prewar intelligence. It is essential that we examine this critically important matter. Congress has a Constitutional responsibility to conduct rigorous oversight of the Administration. We must ask tough questions of our Administration. Yet, instead of an open and honest debate, the Republicans cutoff proceedings, silencing the opportunity for Members from both sides of the aisle to have their voices heard on this issue. The Bush Administration’s case for war has been riddled with gaping holes, which has done lasting damage to our standing in the world and has undermined the confidence the American people have in their government. As Members of Congress, we have an obligation to examine all the facts leading up to the decision to go to war. Only then can we begin to rebuild the trust with the American people.”
11.2.2005	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) in an op-ed in today’s Seattle Post-Intelligencer called for an investigation into the pre-Iraq War intelligence and the information involving the White House Iraq Group (WHIG), which was comprised of key White House leaders including Lewis “Scooter” Libby, Karl Rove and Condoleezza Rice. Smith believes that, “Congress has a clear role to play [in the investigation], because [special prosecutor Patrick] Fitzgerald’s investigation seeks only to punish criminal action and does not deal with the much broader issue of whether the White House deliberately misled the American people. Congress, both in its responsibility to exercise oversight of federal government action and because we received much of the potentially incorrect information being put out by the Administration on Iraq, has the duty of ensuring open and honest communication between the White House and Congress.” Smith has co-sponsored a Congressional resolution of inquiry with U.S. Rep. Dennis Kucinich (D-OH), “calling for the White House to turn over to Congress all information involving the WHIG … They were tasked to make the case for going to war in Iraq in an effort to convince Congress and the American people to support that policy.” Smith goes onto note, “White House assertions that aluminum tubes purchased by Iraq had to be part of a nuclear weapons program, that Iraq had tried to purchase uranium from Niger and that we could not afford to let ‘the smoking gun be a mushroom cloud’ all appear to have come from the WHIG. We need to know how they got that information – which we now know to be false – and whether they deliberately misrepresented the facts.” Smith concludes that, “the holes that have appeared in the case [the Bush Administration made for going to war in Iraq] have done deep and lasting damage to our standing in the world and have undermined the confidence the American people have in their government. Congress can begin to repair this damage by getting to the bottom of the Administration’s actions during the build up to the Iraq war. Anything less does not fulfill our responsibility to the American people.” The complete text of the op-ed published in today’s Seattle Post-Intelligencer, is below: # # # Congress must investigate lies, leaks Wednesday, November 2, 2005 By ADAM SMITH GUEST COLUMNIST Did the Bush White House, in a deliberate and organized manner, misrepresent the truth to Congress, the American people and the world in making its case for the military invasion of Iraq? This is a critical question that demands a clear answer. To this point, Congress has abdicated its responsibility to investigate all the facts. That must change. Last week, Vice President Dick Cheney's chief of staff, Lewis "Scooter" Libby, was indicted in the ongoing investigation by special prosecutor Patrick Fitzgerald into the outing of CIA operative Valerie Plame. The alleged actions of Libby, and perhaps Bush senior adviser Karl Rove and others in the White House, to leak classified information in this case appear to have been aimed at discrediting, or threatening, Plame's husband, former Ambassador Joe Wilson. By CIA request, Wilson had gone to Niger to examine the Bush administration's charge that Saddam Hussein had tried to acquire uranium for a nuclear weapon. Convinced this was not true, Wilson had written an Op-Ed in The New York Times debunking the claim. Congress has a clear role to play in this issue, because Fitzgerald's investigation seeks only to punish criminal action and does not deal with the much broader issue of whether the White House deliberately misled the American people. Congress, both in its responsibility to exercise oversight of federal government action and because we received much of the potentially incorrect information being put out by the administration on Iraq, has the duty of ensuring open and honest communication between the White House and Congress. And yet this Congress has not looked into the matter at all. The same Congress that launched investigations into the suicide of Clinton aide Vince Foster and the hiring actions of the Clinton White House with regard to their travel office, among countless other investigations, has sat silent on the critical issue of whether the White House deliberately put out false information in an effort to push our nation into war. In an effort to get Congress to investigate this important issue, I have co-sponsored a resolution of inquiry calling for the White House to turn over to Congress all information involving the White House Iraq Group. The WHIG was comprised of key White House leaders including Libby, Rove and Condoleezza Rice. They were tasked to make the case for going to war in Iraq in an effort to convince Congress and the American public to support that policy. White House assertions that aluminum tubes purchased by Iraq had to be part of a nuclear weapons program, that Iraq had tried to purchase uranium from Niger and that we could not afford to let "the smoking gun be a mushroom cloud" all appear to have come from the WHIG. We need to know how they got that information -- which we now know to be false -- and whether they deliberately misrepresented the facts. The administration and its supporters often have dismissed the need for an investigation by arguing that everybody thought Saddam had WMD. They seem to mistakenly believe that this assertion makes it irrelevant whether the administration lied. A legitimate case existed for threatening force against Saddam if he did not allow international inspectors back into Iraq, perhaps even for the ultimate use of that force. Saddam had sought nuclear as well as chemical and biological weapons in the past. In fact, the world discovered after the first Gulf War that Iraq was much further along in the development of a nuclear weapon than we previously thought. Saddam had kicked international inspectors out in 1998, and had shown clear hostile intentions toward other nations in his region and to the United States. By late 2002, we did not know what WMD Iraq had or was trying to develop. Arguably, we could not afford not to know. The inspectors had to go back in and the only way to do that was to threaten military force. But this is not the case the administration made. The holes that have appeared in the case they made have done deep and lasting damage to our standing in the world and have undermined the confidence the American people have in their government. Congress can begin to repair this damage by getting to the bottom of the administration's actions during the build up to the Iraq war. Anything less does not fulfill our responsibility to the American people.
10.27.2005	Today, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) introduced the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Improvement Act with 75 original co-sponsors, including U.S. Rep. Charles Rangel (D-NY), the Ranking Member on the House Ways and Means Committee, which has oversight of American trade policy and U.S. Rep. Benjamin Cardin, Ranking Member on the Trade Subcommittee. The U.S. manufacturing sector has been hit hard with unemployment, and in recent years the service sector has experienced similar declines in employment as a result of the increasingly global and competitive marketplace. Currently, TAA provides income support, job training, job searching, relocation assistance and health care tax credits to workers who have lost their jobs due to trade. However, TAA is only available to workers in the manufacturing and agricultural sectors. The new legislation would extend trade TAA benefits to displaced service workers, such as software programmers, hi-tech workers as well as to entire industries if those industries are subject to a trade remedy under US laws that protect domestic industries. The legislation also amends eligibility requirements for TAA to cover those who lose jobs due to overseas production to any country, not just those countries with whom the U.S. has trade agreements. The bill simplifies the application process for wage insurance. In addition, the legislation strengthens the data collection and reporting requirements by making it mandatory for the Department of Labor to track and make public data on both service sector and manufacturing job trends and TAA usage. Finally, it dramatically increases the funding cap for job training programs and enhances health care subsidies for displaced workers. “Our nation’s prosperity and economic growth is dependent on our workers’ ability to continually upgrade their skills,” said Smith. “In the face of ever greater global competition, we need to ensure that American workers remain the best and most highly skilled workforce in the world. The TAA program is an important component of our commitment to workers. This bill recognizes the reality of our changing economy and provides critically important wage and health insurance to those seeking to regain employment.” Bill Center, the President of the Washington Council on International Trade said, “Worker dislocation is one of the major challenges facing the U.S. economy. Even though trade is but one small component of that problem, anything we can do to better facilitate the ability of our workforce to more smoothly and easily transition between jobs and careers should be applauded. We appreciate Representative Smith’s consistent strong leadership on this issue and look forward to the day these benefits will be available to all displaced workers.” Smith’s legislation has also received support from members of the labor community. Kristin Farr, Legislative Director for Society of Professional Engineer Employees in Aerospace (SPEEA) and also legislative director for International Federation of Professional Technical Engineers (IFPTE) 2001, said that, “while displaced manufacturing and agricultural workers have benefited from TAA for many years, America's growing population of service sector workers have been left out. Representative Smith's legislation is critical to promoting the competitiveness of our hard-working American workforce because it provides the necessary funding for retraining that displaced workers need. Current TAA legislation only applies to SPEEA members who worked in Boeing's Commercial Airplane division. Representative Smith’s legislation could extend TAA benefits to those laid off SPEEA members who worked on a Boeing defense program or an IT job within Boeing's Shared Services Group (SSG).” Marcus Courtney, President of the Washington Alliance of Technology Workers (WASHTECH), noted that, “like the manufacturing sector, those in the service sector are increasingly being affected due to job loss from world trade. This legislation will allow those affected greater access to health care, retraining and unemployment insurance benefits as they make the transition.” Smith will continue to work with his colleagues in a bipartisan fashion to ensure that American workers have access to the retraining and health care benefits they need. The changes included in this bill will help workers maintain comprehensive, affordable benefits for themselves and their families.
10.25.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement today on the death of Civil Rights Leader Rosa Parks: "Sometimes leaders are born out of the steely determination of a quiet individual. This was Rosa Parks. Nearly half a century ago, she refused to comply with a racist law and she lit the spark of the civil rights battle in the middle of the 20th Century in the United States. It was that battle that empowered millions of citizens and continues today as we work to fulfill America's promise of equality of all. She was a woman of dignity and a lifelong fighter of equal rights for all Americans. Today, we honor the memory of a woman who had the courage to, in one act of simply sitting down, stood up for equal rights for all Americans. Her legacy is one of equality for all and America is a better place because of Rosa Parks."
10.25.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA), an original cosponsor of H.R. 758, the Aerospace Revitalization Act, is pleased that this important legislation passed unanimously out of the U.S. House of Representatives today. The bill coordinates federal and private-sector aerospace workforce development efforts through the establishment of an interagency taskforce. It implements a key recommendation from the 2002 bipartisan Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry report to the President to counter what it termed “the nation’s apathy toward developing a scientifically and technologically trained workforce.” “The United States aerospace industry is a driver in the United States economic competitiveness, particularly in the Puget Sound region,” said Smith. “The catalyst for economic development is retention and new opportunities and, yet, almost 30 percent of the aerospace manufacturing workforce will become eligible for retirement in 2008. The panel will address this shortage and take existing federal resources to identify new aerospace workforce training and recruitment opportunities through scholarships, grants and loan programs as well as alliances with the private sector and state governments.” The legislation now moves to the Senate for consideration.
9.8.2005	Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my disappointment for the federal government’s delayed response to Hurricane Katrina. I am extremely concerned about the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) director Michael Brown and call for his resignation. Brown and his senior leadership team have demonstrated a stunning level of ineptitude that made the disaster of Katrina and the loss of life and property much worse than it had to be. This tragic event has made clear that the FEMA team is not up to the job of protecting Americans from either natural disasters or from any possible terrorist attack. Security is a paramount concern to me and Americans deserve a competent and able emergency management agency. Now that it is proven that this team is incapable, we can’t afford to wait to replace Director Brown. I also strongly disagree with the suggestion – made by many in the Administration and the majority – that Americans shouldn’t “point fingers” or play the “blame game” as the relief effort continues. Thousands of lives are at stake right now. We are also spending billions of public dollars on the recovery and those resources must be spent effectively and efficiently. We need an experienced team now to implement the government’s plan for repairing the southeast region, not after a lengthy review process. While I support that broader review, one thing is immediately clear: the director of FEMA is plainly not up to the important job at hand. Consider the following critically important facts. Despite days of warning, FEMA did virtually nothing to prepare for the impact of Katrina. Director Brown reportedly waited five hours after Katrina struck before he proposed to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Michael Chertoff that he send 1,000 Homeland Security workers into the region to support rescuers. Even then, his letter gave personnel two full days to arrive on the scene to begin offering assistance. It was five agonizing days before FEMA and DHS showed up in any significant numbers with adequate supplies to help the tens of thousands of people in New Orleans. Equally disturbing are the efforts of FEMA and others in the Administration to explain away these inexcusable actions. Claims have been made that local leaders in Louisiana did not ask for help and that the federal government could not have foreseen that the levees around New Orleans would be breeched in the event of a significant hurricane. The utter absurdity of these claims makes it even clearer that we need new leadership at FEMA if Americans are to have any confidence that the agency will wisely and effectively deal with the continuing crisis in the Gulf Coast, much less prepare for future natural disasters or terrorist attacks. First, locals did ask for help before the storm hit and FEMA assumed responsibility for dealing with the fallout from Katrina. Louisiana’s Governor Kathleen Blanco declared a state of emergency for Louisiana on August 26th and on August 27th, she requested federal support. On that same day, and acting on your authorization, Director Brown responded to Blanco's request for assistance and declared that FEMA would "mobilize equipment and resources necessary to protect public health and safety by assisting law enforcement with evacuations, establishing shelters, supporting emergency medical needs, meeting immediate lifesaving and life-sustaining human needs and protecting property, in addition to other emergency protective measures." Second, the coming disaster was clear. Max Mayfield, the Director of the National Hurricane Center has confirmed that both Director Brown and Secretary Chertoff listened to his agency’s briefing on Katrina’s likely impact. Maxfield made repeated warnings about the hurricane and was quoted by the New Orleans Times-Picayune as saying, "We were briefing them (FEMA and DHS) way before landfall. It’s not like this was a surprise. We had in the advisories that the levee could be topped." It is alarming that, given this knowledge, FEMA thought it was appropriate to sit back and wait instead of aggressively preparing for the disaster. Third, the vulnerability of the levees was well established. Last year, FEMA conducted a simulation involving the potential evacuation of New Orleans as a result of a Hurricane. For many years experts had been predicting that the levees could be breached by a hurricane and that the results would be disastrous, costing thousands of lives and billions of dollars. In 2001, the Army Corps of Engineers conducted a study and found that the levees in the region needed to be updated, raised, and the pumping systems modernized. In the event of a category 4 or 5 hurricane, like Hurricane Katrina, the levees would fail and the cities within the levees would be at risk of flooding. Perhaps most troubling, federal officials knew from news reports and from Mayor Ray Nagin’s comments that tens of thousands of New Orleans residents would not be able to respond to the call to evacuate. Despite this understanding, no action was taken to accommodate those who could not evacuate their city. I am deeply troubled by what this failure of leadership could portend for another disaster or attack. Some of FEMA’s top positions have been staffed with individuals who have ample political and campaign experience, but virtually no understanding of how to prepare for and respond to a disaster of any magnitude. We expect state and local responders to be well trained and qualified. The same must be true of FEMA’s leaders. There is no doubt that a new and better skilled leadership team at FEMA is required in order to best protect our nation. The tragic events caused by Hurricane Katrina have left hundreds of thousands of Americans with shattered homes and families and without food and water. I am committed to joining together to provide relief and to save as many lives as possible. I have seen the compassion of Americans as volunteers, donations and financial assistance has flowed into the southeast region. We must now do our part repair the damaged region and assist in rebuilding the lives of many of our citizens. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to help the people in this devastated region.
9.8.2005	Recognizing the fact that millions of Americans carry cell phones with them throughout the day, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) introduced a concurrent resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives expressing the sense of Congress that all Americans should program their cell phones and other portable electronic devices to show personal emergency contacts under the acronym ICE (In Case of Emergency) to enable emergency personnel to contact family and friends in the event of an emergency. “This is a non-partisan issue and is a simple step that Americans can take right now,” said Smith. “We never want something bad to happen, but if a situation arises where a person is incapacitated, someone on-scene can grab the person’s cell phone or Blackberry and get in touch with their emergency contacts. This is something that can take less than a minute to program, but when time is short, this easy step can save hours and provide peace of mind to individuals and their families.” Smith hopes that he will get bi-partisan support on his resolution and that the House passes it swiftly.
9.7.2005	e call to evacuate. Despite this understanding, no action was taken to accommodate those who could not evacuate their city.” The letter concludes that “the tragic events caused by Hurricane Katrina have left hundreds of thousands of Americans with shattered homes and families and without food and water. We are committed to joining together to provide relief and to save as many lives as possible. We have seen the compassion of Americans as volunteers, donations and financial assistance has flowed into the southeast region. We must now do our part to repair the damaged region and assist in rebuilding the lives of many of our citizens. An important first step in this effort is new leadership at FEMA. We strongly urge you to replace Director Michael Brown immediately.” The complete text of the letter follows: # # # Dear President Bush, We are writing today to urge you to replace Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) director Michael Brown. Brown and his senior leadership team have demonstrated a stunning level of ineptitude that made the disaster of Katrina and the loss of life and property much worse than it had to be. This tragic event has made clear that your team is not up to the job of protecting Americans from either natural disasters or from any possible terrorist attack. Security is a paramount concern to us and Americans deserve a competent and able emergency management agency. Now that it is proven that this team is incapable, we can’t afford to wait to replace Director Brown. We also strongly disagree with the suggestion – made by many in your Administration – that Americans shouldn’t “point fingers” or play the “blame game” as the relief effort continues. Thousands of lives are at stake right now. We are also spending billions of public dollars on the recovery and those resources must be spent effectively and efficiently. We need an experienced team now to implement the government’s plan for repairing the southeast region, not after a lengthy review process. While we support that broader review, one thing is immediately clear: the director of FEMA is plainly not up to the important job at hand. Consider the following critically important facts. Despite days of warning, FEMA did virtually nothing to prepare for the impact of Katrina. Director Brown reportedly waited five hours after Katrina struck before he proposed to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Michael Chertoff that he send 1,000 Homeland Security workers into the region to support rescuers. Even then, his letter gave personnel two full days to arrive on the scene to begin offering assistance. It was five agonizing days before FEMA and DHS showed up in any significant numbers with adequate supplies to help the tens of thousands of people in New Orleans. Equally disturbing are the efforts of FEMA and others in your Administration to explain away these inexcusable actions. Claims have been made that local leaders in Louisiana did not ask for help and that the federal government could not have foreseen that the levees around New Orleans would be breeched in the event of a significant hurricane. The utter absurdity of these claims makes it even clearer that we need new leadership at FEMA if Americans are to have any confidence that the agency will wisely and effectively deal with the continuing crisis in the Gulf Coast, much less prepare for future natural disasters or terrorist attacks. First, locals did ask for help before the storm hit and FEMA assumed responsibility for dealing with the fallout from Katrina. Louisiana’s Governor Kathleen Blanco declared a state of emergency for Louisiana on August 26th and on August 27th, she requested federal support. On that same day, and acting on your authorization, Director Brown responded to Blanco's request for assistance and declared that FEMA would "mobilize equipment and resources necessary to protect public health and safety by assisting law enforcement with evacuations, establishing shelters, supporting emergency medical needs, meeting immediate lifesaving and life-sustaining human needs and protecting property, in addition to other emergency protective measures." Second, the coming disaster was clear. Max Mayfield, the Director of the National Hurricane Center has confirmed that both Director Brown and Secretary Chertoff listened to his agency’s briefing on Katrina’s likely impact. Maxfield made repeated warnings about the hurricane and was quoted by the New Orleans Times-Picayune as saying, "We were briefing them (FEMA and DHS) way before landfall. It’s not like this was a surprise. We had in the advisories that the levee could be topped." It is alarming that, given this knowledge, FEMA thought it was appropriate to sit back and wait instead of aggressively preparing for the disaster. Third, the vulnerability of the levees was well established. Last year, FEMA conducted a simulation involving the potential evacuation of New Orleans as a result of a Hurricane. For many years experts had been predicting that the levees could be breached by a hurricane and that the results would be disastrous, costing thousands of lives and billions of dollars. In 2001, the Army Corps of Engineers conducted a study and found that the levees in the region needed to be updated, raised, and the pumping systems modernized. In the event of a category 4 or 5 hurricane, like Hurricane Katrina, the levees would fail and the cities within the levees would be at risk of flooding. Perhaps most troubling, federal officials knew from news reports and from Mayor Ray Nagin’s comments that tens of thousands of New Orleans residents would not be able to respond to the call to evacuate. Despite this understanding, no action was taken to accommodate those who could not evacuate their city. We are deeply troubled by what this failure of leadership could portend for another disaster or attack. Some of FEMA’s top positions have been staffed with individuals who have ample political and campaign experience, but virtually no understanding of how to prepare for and respond to a disaster of any magnitude. We expect state and local responders to be well trained and qualified. The same must be true of FEMA’s leaders. There is no doubt that a new and better skilled leadership team at FEMA is required in order to best protect our nation. The tragic events caused by Hurricane Katrina have left hundreds of thousands of Americans with shattered homes and families and without food and water. We are committed to joining together to provide relief and to save as many lives as possible. We have seen the compassion of Americans as volunteers, donations and financial assistance has flowed into the southeast region. We must now do our part to repair the damaged region and assist in rebuilding the lives of many of our citizens. An important first step in this effort is new leadership at FEMA. We strongly urge you to replace Director Michael Brown immediately. We look forward to your response. //SIGNED// //SIGNED// Adam Smith Ellen Tauscher Member of Congress Member of Congress
8.25.2005	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement today concerning the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission’s final votes on the proposed Joint Base Lewis-McChord: “The BRAC Commission tackled a difficult assignment in shaping the future of our military forces to ensure that they continue to be the world’s best and most effective fighting force. Throughout the entire BRAC process, I along with other Members of the Washington State delegation, have asked questions and raised concerns, particularly on the implementation of the proposed Joint Base Lewis-McChord and the proposed reduction in jobs affiliated with McChord Air Force Base (AFB). Having written two letters to the Commission, outlining these concerns, I was pleased to note that the Commission is taking an approach that allows affected military units to give input into how manpower levels should be derived as opposed to the original proposal from the Department of Defense that directed a prescribed number of jobs to be cut. On the much larger question of the current BRAC round and the proposed Joint Base Lewis-McChord, I applaud the Commission’s recognition of the important military assets we have in the Northwest. Our distinctive geography, unique military assets and dedicated servicemen and women, combine to position Northwest facilities as highly valuable for our nation’s security. I also applaud the Commission’s efforts to better leverage local assets and improve efficiency through joint basing, particularly the proposed Joint Base Lewis-McChord. Since this is a new concept, it is difficult to foresee the full implications of the proposal, but the concept has merit and I am encouraged that the Commission gave power to the local commanders to have direct input into how the realignment will be implemented. The Joint Base concept has the potential to bolster efficiency and joint operations, which are critical to a modern-day fighting force. I was also pleased to see that the Commission will propose an amendment that will allow for members of the Air Force to continue to receive medical treatment at McChord, while moving the bulk of military families and retirees to the much larger medical facility located next door at Fort Lewis. While questions still remain concerning the impact on jobs that this move will create, I believe that this is a step in the right direction and represents progress in addressing our concerns. I will continue to monitor the military situation both in the 9th District and throughout the country and I will work to ensure that our military and those who serve in it are given the best equipment and the right assets to continue to do the great and heroic work that they do each and every day.”
8.4.2005	Today, U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) gave a speech at the Tacoma Club focusing on meeting the challenges of global poverty. Smith, a Member of the House International Relations Committee, is passionate about global poverty issues and believes the United States has a moral obligation to improve the lives of the world’s poorest people. Smith also announced the introduction of his bipartisan bill, HR 3605, called the Global Poverty Act of 2005. Smith stated that the bill is an “important piece of legislation [that] requires the President to develop a comprehensive strategy to vastly reduce global poverty and eliminate extreme global poverty and report back to Congress on its progress. This plan should include foreign assistance, foreign and local private investment, technical assistance, public-private partnerships and debt relief. The bill declares that the reduction of global poverty and the elimination of extreme global poverty are a priority of U.S. foreign policy and that the U.S. should work with all the players involved in this fight, including developing and donor countries and multilateral institutions to coordinate policies to address global poverty.” In his speech, Smith said that “nearly half of the world’s population is struggling in poverty and one-sixth of the world’s population can’t meet even the most basic needs for survival. This is morally unacceptable.” Smith believes that “the United States needs a comprehensive strategy, one that currently does not exist, to help eliminate extreme global poverty.” He went on to state that “we need to leverage development aid, debt relief, technical assistance and public-private partnerships. We need to coordinate with world bodies, including the United Nations, to help impoverished countries devise plans that will work for them. The United States has a moral obligation and a strategic need to help eradicate global poverty.” Smith outlined four concrete steps that can be taken to deal with the problems associated with extreme global poverty: ensure that developing countries have a decent infrastructure, the ability to reduce the effects of debilitating diseases on their population, access to affordable credit to help build their small businesses that drive their economies and finally access to a free, universal education system. After outlining these four steps, Smith noted, “that the United States can have an enormous and positive impact on nations in need. However, the formula for success must include close coordination with the recipient nation as well as other donors and multilateral development organizations. The best aid programs are those that have substantial buy-in from the local policy makers and are met with a commensurate commitment to sound economic policies, social services, education, and a strengthening of political institutions.” In discussing a strategic plan to eliminate global poverty, Smith said, “the plan would incorporate current aid programs, like the Millennium Challenge Account, and would ensure consistency with our foreign policy goals.” Smith has been deeply focused on the issue of global poverty and in March, 2005 he participated in the Trade and Poverty Forum in Nagoya, Japan. The forum brought together leaders from the business, political and NGO communities to develop strategies for combating poverty. Smith understands that our nation must make a greater commitment to poverty alleviation and view these efforts as an investment that can foster global stability and security, build alliances throughout the world and reduce the sense of hopelessness for billions of people. He is committed to helping marshal the political and social will to address global poverty. The complete text of the speech can be found at http://www.house.gov/adamsmith/startPage/Globalpoverty.htm
7.28.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement today on the Energy Conference Report: “The Energy Conference Report, while containing some good policies that are the product of bipartisan compromise, does not do enough to shift U.S. energy policy away from old fossil fuels and subsidies, to clean and fuel efficient energy proposals and initiatives. This conference report is disappointing and in effect preserves the status quo. America continues to be too heavily dependant on foreign oil and this bill does too little to lessen our dependence. There are some provisions contained in the bill that are visionary and lead American energy policy in the right direction. For example, a provision by U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) promotes the production of biofuels, which will one day help lessen our dependence on fossil fuels and foreign oil. Her plan promotes the development of ethanol and biodiesel from a wider variety of crops, agricultural waste or even algae. Numerous studies have shown that alternative energy sources such as these can one day help provide the economic and environmental security that this country needs and deserves. Another noteworthy provision included in the bill was a two-year extension of the Renewable Energy Production Tax Credit (PTC) for qualified wind energy generation facilities. I wrote a letter to Chairman Bill Thomas asking that this important provision be included in the final report. Over the last decade, wind energy generation technology has grown enormously, allowing turbines to become more efficient and generate more power. A multiple-year extension will promote this technology and help end the boom and bust cycles that have put several wind energy pioneers out of business. Alternative energy sources such as biofuel and wind are important, but this bill does not take these initiatives or those like them far enough. In addition, this bill contains billions in subsidies for fossil fuels like oil, coal and gas; subsidies that do not make sense if we are serious about switching to alternative energy sources and lessening our dependence on foreign oil.We must be prepared to invest in forward-thinking and emerging technologies, renewable energy, and energy efficiency and conservation. This bill is also fiscally irresponsible, containing $11 billion in subsidies that are not off-set by reductions in other spending. With a projected federal deficit of over $400 billion, we cannot afford to continue to pass spending bills and tax cuts that are not offset. The Bush Administration’s backward-looking energy and environmental polices have left the United States ill-equipped to compete with other nations in the booming global market for environmentally clean technologies. We can, and should, do better. By making investments in emerging technologies and renewable energy resources, the United States has the potential to be a net exporter of renewable energy, not an importer of foreign oil. The time is now for the United States to adopt a real energy policy: a policy that will invest in new technologies, new energy resources and that will increase our national security by decreasing our dependence on foreign oil. It is time for us to adopt an energy policy that not only makes the United States a net-exporter of renewable energy but that protects our environment as well. This bill does not go far enough, and it is for these reasons that I voted against the Energy Conference Report.”
7.28.2005	U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement today concerning his disappointment in the passage of the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement: “I am disappointed that the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Dominican-Republic Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), “said U.S. Rep. Adam Smith, (D-WA). “I am an advocate of free trade, but CAFTA is a fundamentally flawed trade agreement that does not balance the needs of American workers and companies, nor the needs of the nations with which we trade. It is clear that America needs to have a discussion and build a real consensus, one that does not currently exists, around the issues of trade, globalization and international competitiveness. To build this consensus at home, America needs a modern, clear-eyed approach to the challenges of globalization. Competition has grown more fierce, more markets and consumers have become available, technology is changing the game, our workers are not prospering and we don’t really know how to factor in very real environmental concerns. To build a consensus abroad, we must understand that workers’ rights and effective labor and environmental enforcement mechanisms are crucial to ensuring that developing nations fully and effectively participate in the global economy. Our current debate over CAFTA barely touched on these new realities. My hope is that we can begin to talk not just about narrow trade agreements, but about what strategies we must adopt as a nation to ensure we meet the new 21st century challenges of globalization head on, allowing our companies to prosper, our world to grow closer together, our environment protected and our workers to succeed. By doing so, we can move our nation and our trading partners forward in a way that makes real and sustainable progress toward opening markets, growing our economy and lifting developing states out of poverty. This consensus must be grounded in balancing the interests and needs of American workers with those of private companies. Time and again, the Bush Administration has chosen economic policies that undermine our ability to invest in education and skills training that are desperately needed in this country. Domestically, we must aggressively implement policies that help Americans succeed in the increasingly competitive global economy. We must invest in providing skills training and lifelong learning opportunities so that American workers have the opportunity to upgrade their skills or get new jobs. We must invest in K-12 education, particularly in math and science, to ensure that we continue to lead the world in innovation. We must invest in research and development and partner with universities, businesses and entrepreneurs in developing new technologies and encouraging innovation that will drive our economy and create the jobs of the future. The American workforce and companies must be prepared to take on the challenges and reap the rewards of globalization. Internationally, we must seek to improve workers’ rights – and raise the standard of living – in developing nations throughout the world. Better protections for workers and a genuine effort to improve worker’s rights internationally are essential to forging this new consensus. Clearly, we do not expect workers in developing countries to instantly have the same legal protections as workers in the United States. However, there is no reason that our standard for worker protections can’t match those of the Jordan trade agreement. That agreement not only required Jordan to enforce their existing labor laws but to also make progress towards meeting all International Labor Organization standards. At the same time, the enforcement provisions for the worker protection language should be on the same footing as robust intellectual property and investor’s rights. With CAFTA, an opportunity has been missed to put forward an agreement that balances the need to open global markets to American workers and businesses and promotes growth and stability overseas. As negotiated by the Bush Administration, CAFTA actually weakens the existing workers’ protections currently available under the United States’ existing trade preference programs with the region. Similarly, on environmental protection, rural development and public health, this agreement falls short. While CAFTA rightly includes protections for the intellectual property rights that are so important to our region, the Administration failed to take such a serious approach on workers’ rights and environmental protections. The United States must craft a competitiveness policy that provides American workers and businesses with real opportunity to grow and that strengthens our economy. We must build a trade policy that creates foreign markets for our products, not only a vast pool of unskilled laborers who have no hope of fully participating in a global economy. We believe that our nation must be bold in crafting policies to deal with the current economic realities. We must rise to meet the historic challenge presented by globalization. By doing so, we can build a real consensus on trade that is bipartisan, comprehensive and puts our nation’s workers and businesses in a stronger position to compete and win in the global marketplace. CAFTA and indeed many of the Administration’s economic policies falls far short of creating a cohesive and comprehensive policy on trade.”
7.28.2005	ve Adam Smith today declared victory in their efforts to secure critical federal funding for the South Sound's transportation priorities. The three secured over $41 million for the region in legislation reauthorizing surface transportation spending through 2009. SAFETEA-LU, which the House will pass tonight and is expected to clear the Senate tomorrow, sets the funding levels for highways, ferries, and transit programs through 2009. "With the leadership of Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, I'm pleased that we have been able to provide urgently needed dollars for projects in our state and the Ninth District," said U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Tacoma). "While more needs to be done to relieve congestion and improve the quality of life for our citizens, the SAFETEA-LU transportation bill represents real bipartisan progress in addressing our regional needs. I will continue working with local stakeholders and others in our delegation to craft real transportation solutions that will enhance our productivity and ensure that the South Puget Sound remains a great place to live and do business." "I am proud to have partnered with Rep. Smith and Sen. Cantwell to stand up for the transportation needs of the South Puget Sound," Senator Murray said. "In a tough budget year, under tough conditions, we stood together to make the investments that will create jobs, improve safety and lay the foundation for our region's future economic growth." "We need to think of these federal funds as an investment. These are well spent dollars that will create jobs, improve our quality of life, and literally keep our economy moving," Senator Cantwell said. "I'm proud of the way the delegation has worked together in these tight financial times to make sure Washington gets the improvements our communities need." The following is a list of Ninth District projects: State Route 167 - $9.5 million This funding will help complete State Route 167, which will connect the Port of Tacoma at State Route 509 to Puyallup at State Route 161. This project will improve freight mobility, provide congestion relief, and enhance safety. Cross Base Highway - $3.2 million Funding will help build a new six-mile highway from I-5 to State Route 7, between Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base. It will also link I-5 with the mid-Pierce County area, where the Frederickson High Intensity Employment Center (including the Boeing plant) and the Dupont area (located approximately 5 miles south on I-5 and the site of the Intel computer chip manufacturing and R/D plant) are located. Yelm 510/507 - $2 million Funding is provided to conduct engineering, design and right-of-way acquisition for the construction of an alternative route to two highways that bisect the heart of downtown Yelm. Once constructed, the Yelm "Loop" would divert traffic around the backlogged intersections of State Route 510 and State Route 507. This project would create a smoother flow of traffic and create greater capacity for economic growth in Yelm. Renton 405/167 - $1.6 million Funding rebuilds the interchange of two vital transportation corridors, State Route 167 and Interstate-405, by adding additional lanes. It will help to reduce long waits in traffic at a critical choke point in the regions traffic flow and ease the commute of thousands of people in the Puget Sound region. Tukwila Urban Access - $2.550 million This funding addresses necessary congestion improvements to the Southcenter Parkway, between Tukwila Parkway and 61st Avenue South and South 168th Street. This area is the primary entry/exit point into this major regional retail and warehousing area. State Route 518 from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport to I-405 - $5 million This project funds improvements along the State Route 518 corridor. It will increase access to Sea-Tac Airport and the surrounding cities of Burien, SeaTac and Tukwila. It provides for the safe and efficient movement of people and goods in the region. Port of Tacoma Road - $400,000 This funding allows for a second left turn lane to be constructed from westbound Pacific Highway to Port of Tacoma Road. Identified as a necessary improvement, this project is critical to the planned extension of State Route 167 into the Port of Tacoma and will increase capacity at a highly congested intersection. In addition, the project will also include pedestrian and bicycle improvements along the full length of the project. Lincoln Avenue Grade Separation Project in Tacoma - $2.3 million The Lincoln Avenue grade separation project in Tacoma will construct an 1,100 foot, four lane concrete viaduct over five existing railroad lines. This is part of several planned improvements in the Port area of Tacoma and will eliminate the long waits that currently hamper freight mobility at this rail crossing. Valley Avenue/70th Avenue - $800,000 The project would widen both 70th Avenue East and Valley Ave East in Pierce County. The project widens 70th Avenue East from 2 to 5 lanes, from 20th Street East to Valley Avenue East, and will also widen Valley Avenue East from 2 to 4 lanes, from 70th Avenue East to Freeman Road East. Once completed, the improvements will reduce congestion and enhance safety at an important point of access for freight to the Port of Tacoma. Kent Willis UP Tracks - $800,000 The Willis Street (SR 516) UP Railroad Grade Separation Project will construct a bridge for the Union Pacific railroad and reconstruct Willis Street to pass underneath the UP tracks. This project is a critical step towards providing a more seamless passage for rail and truck freight through the Green River Valley. It eliminates rail/vehicle at-grade conflicts that slow the movement of truck freight between the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma and the warehousing complex in the Valley. Federal Way Triangle - $5.6 million The Federal Way Triangle project will reconstruct the interchange at the intersection of I-5, State Route 18 and State Route 161. This overburdened interchange is the fifth-busiest in the State and has been identified by the Washington State Department of Transportation as a "High Accident Location." This project will provide relief and increased safety for commuters and businesses moving goods in the region. Burien Town Square Roadway and Pedestrian Improvements -- $4 million The City of Burien is redeveloping 10 acres of underutilized property in downtown Burien to support economic development and affordable housing. This funding will allow for an extension of 6th Avenue, connections to Burien's transit center with an emphasis on pedestrian use and safety, and the development of streets within the Town Square project. Tukwila Southcenter Parkway Extension -- $3 million Funding will be used to relocate, widen, and improve Southcenter Parkway between south 180th Street and south 200th. This extension will provide access to the Tukwila South Development project. Kent I-5/272nd Street SPUI - $800,000 This single point urban interchange (SPUI) under Interstate-5 will be constructed at South 272nd Street. This project will relieve congestion and add capacity for an integrated regional HOV-transit system. The community surrounding the interchange will benefit with the efficient movement of freight, faster commutes and increased safety.
7.28.2005	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) is disappointed that the Republican-controlled House of Representatives refused to address the health care crisis that the United States is facing and chose instead to help those least in need. He made the following statement: “The U.S. House of Representatives had an historic opportunity this week to help the more than 45 million Americans without health insurance,” said Smith. “Instead, the Republican majority passed bills that protect Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) and not doctors and patients. We also passed an Association Heal Plans (AHPs) bill that only helps a small fraction of uninsured Americans. H.R. 5, the Medical Malpractice Reform Act is a bad bill because it broadly defines “medical malpractice action” to protect HMOs, insurance companies, nursing homes and drug and device manufacturers from a broad range of liabilities, including suits by physicians against those companies. The bill provides a cap on punitive damages that is far too low and would hurt those at the bottom end of the income scale. It will also seriously restrict the rights of injured patients from being fully compensated for their injury by imposing an impossibly high standard of proof needed to bring a successful case against negligent defendants. Instead of penalizing innocent victims of medical malpractice, Congress should be focusing on reducing the number of mistakes made. Medical errors and rising malpractice insurance rates are important issues that must be dealt with but unfortunately this bill does not fix these problems. I was also disappointed about the passage of H.R. 525, the Small Business Health Fairness Act, which creates AHPs. If this legislation is enacted, these AHP’S sold by associations would be exempt from state insurance law and regulatory oversight. The right of states to apply a large body of insurance laws and regulations would be removed, undermining consumer protections, solvency and fair marketing practices, grievance and appeals procedures, premium taxation and prohibitions on discrimination. This bill would create a big government program and expand federal control by giving the government sole regulatory authority over these entities. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that only 600,000 of the more than 45 million uninsured will be provided new coverage by AHPs. This is not only unfair and does nothing to help solve the health care crisis that our country faces. I voted for an alternative bill to AHPs that would have established a health insurance plan similar to the plan enjoyed by Federal employees. Unlike, AHPs, this alternative would not have allowed insurance companies to cherry pick younger healthier workers. Everyone would be on equal footing and older and sicker Americans would not be forced to pay higher insurance premiums or have no insurance at all. Most importantly, under this alternative bill, participating insurers would remain subject to state laws applicable to the states in which they cover residents. America needs a real solution to our mounting health care crisis. The bills that passed the House of Representatives this week are not a step forward and do not address the needs of the more than 45 million uninsured. Alternatives that would have helped America were proposed but did not pass. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that Americans get the healthcare coverage they need and deserve."
7.21.2005	Today, U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement on his vote against the reauthorization of portions of the Patriot Act: “Four years ago, I joined my colleagues in voting for the Patriot Act. We were a nation that had just suffered a series of catastrophic events and we were facing an emergency situation. We passed the Patriot Act in order to ensure that our law enforcement officials had the tools they needed to combat terrorism. Four years have passed and the United States is still fighting the War on Terrorism, yet we’ve now had time to review the Patriot Act to determine which parts need to be re-worked to preserve and fully protect, not erode, our rights and liberties. Let me be clear that I support the reauthorization of the Patriot Act. However, the version of this bill before the House today is unacceptable. The Patriot Act expanded the circumstances under which the federal government can obtain a warrant to search or otherwise gather information about people in this country. It did this by both allowing the federal government to obtain such warrants from the Foreign Intelligence Services Act (FISA) court, instead of having to go to federal or state court, and by allowing for the warrant to be granted when the government shows probable cause that a terrorist act is being planned or even when a person is simply suspected of being involved in terrorism. Previously, any law enforcement agency had to show probable cause that a specific crime had been committed or was about to be committed. The change in the Patriot Act makes sense. We cannot afford to wait until terrorists act or plan to act in some specific manner. We must be able to gather information much earlier in the planning stages of a terrorist act. Waiting for a specific target would be waiting too long. But the changes did also present challenges in the critical effort to protect Americans from unlawful searches. The FISA court, because it deals with terrorism, works in secret. Their rulings are not made public. State and federal courts have long established precedent for what constitutes probable cause that a crime has been or is about to be committed. No such history of precedence exists in the FISA court. In addition, evidence that someone is somehow involved in terrorism offers a much broader and less definable standard than one based on a specific crime. What exactly must the government show to establish probable cause that the warrant they seek is aimed at investigating possible terrorist activity? I strongly feel that Congress can clear up these questions by putting in law standards for the FISA court to follow. Congresswoman Jane Harman had an amendment that would have offered some clarity on the question of what constitutes probable cause of terrorist activity. Unfortunately, the Republican Majority did not allow her amendment to be offered. If it had been allowed I would have supported it, and if it had passed I would have supported the final bill, but without that language the standard for the government to obtain warrants through the FISA court to investigate terrorism remains too vague and offers too great a potential for abuse. For this reason I voted no on final passage. We must provide our law enforcement officials with the necessary tools they need to combat terrorism, and I believe we can do so while also protecting our important civil rights. Sadly, this goal was not met by the House version of the Patriot Act. There is no guarantee that the Patriot Act, in its present form, will prevent abuses of our freedoms. For this reason, among others, I chose to vote against the reauthorization of the Patriot Act. It is my intention to work with my colleagues to improve the bill through the conference committee process and help craft a fair, balanced conference report that will garner bipartisan support.”
7.20.2005	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) made a statement for the Congressional Record in support of H.R. 2061, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act. In particular, he highlighted his language in the bill that urges the U.S. to do more to address global poverty. Due to Smith’s efforts, the House International Relations Committee, of which Smith is a member, agreed to include language declaring that the elimination of extreme global poverty should be a top priority of U.S. foreign policy. It also says the U.S. should work with all the players involved, including developing countries, donor countries and multilateral institutions to coordinate policy to address global poverty. Finally, the language urges the President to develop a comprehensive strategy to eliminate global poverty, which should include foreign assistance, foreign and local investment, technical assistance, private-public partnerships and debt relief. Smith has been deeply focused on the issue of global poverty and in March, 2005 he participated in the Trade and Poverty Forum in Nagoya Japan. The forum brought together leaders from the business, political and NGO communities to develop strategies for combating poverty. Smith understands that our nation must make a greater commitment to poverty alleviation and view these efforts as an investment that can foster global stability and security, build alliances throughout the world and reduce the sense of hopelessness that drives so many extremist organizations like the al Qaeda network. He is committed to helping marshal the political and social will to address global poverty. Below, is the text of his statement: Mr. Speaker, Today, I rise to discuss the need for the United States to be a true leader in the fight against global poverty. More than 1 billion people live on less than $1 a day and another 2.7 billion people struggle to survive on less than $2 a day. So what do these numbers really mean? They mean that well over half of the world’s population is struggling in poverty and one-sixth of the world’s population can’t meet even the most basic needs for survival. This is morally unacceptable. I applaud the President’s leadership on the issue, including his commitments to increased debt relief and direct assistance to Africa that were discussed recently at the G-8 summit in Scotland. Programs like the Millennium Challenge Account, which have allowed us to increase development aid and target it more effectively, are an important part of the solution. But, the United States still lacks a comprehensive strategy to help eliminate extreme global poverty. We need to leverage development aid, debt relief, technical assistance and public private partnerships. We need to coordinate with world bodies, including the United Nations, in helping impoverished countries devise plans that will work for them. I’m pleased that this bill includes language that will move us in the right direction. The language, that I requested be added to the bill as it was being drafted in committee, declares that the elimination of extreme global poverty should be a top foreign policy priority for the United States and that the U.S. should work with all the players involved in this fight, including developing and donor countries and multilateral institutions to coordinate polices to address global poverty. Most importantly, the language urges the President to develop a comprehensive strategy to eliminate extreme global poverty. It says this plan should include foreign assistance, foreign and local private investment, technical assistance, private-public partnerships and debt relief. I’d like to thank Chairman Hyde and the entire International Relations Committee for including this language in the bill. The United States has the opportunity to take a firm leadership role in bringing relief and a better future for billions of people around the world. The time to act is now and we can get started with developing a comprehensive plan and I look forward to continuing to work in a bipartisan fashion on increasing the United States commitment to global poverty.
7.5.2005	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) sent a letter to Anthony Principi, the Chairman of the Base Closure and Realignment Commission. Smith’s letter urges full and careful consideration of the issues surrounding the Joint Base Lewis-McChord proposal and the projected reduction in jobs affiliated with McChord Air Force Base (AFB). Smith, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, is seeking to draw attention to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report released last week that highlights questions concerning the Joint Basing concept. The entire letter is pasted below. July 5th, 2005 Mr. Anthony Principi Chairman 2005 Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission 2521 S. Clark St., Ste. 600 Arlington, VA 22202 Dear Chairman Principi, Thank you again for your continued leadership on the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission. I commend you and your fellow commissioners on undertaking this difficult task that is so critical for the future of our nation’s military. I write to you today, once again, to call your attention to concerns surrounding the Pentagon’s Joint Base Lewis-McChord proposal and the projected reduction in jobs affiliated with McChord AFB. Last week, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report on the Defense Department’s BRAC recommendations that reiterated the concerns that my fellow Washington State Congressional Delegation Members and I have expressed in a letter to you regarding the implementation of the Joint Base Lewis-McChord proposal. These concerns are shared by the Tacoma-Pierce County Chamber of Commerce and others. The GAO report, entitled “Military Bases: Analysis of DoD’s 2005 Selection Process and Recommendations for Base Closures and Realignments,” warns of the challenges ahead with the implementation of the Pentagon’s joint base concept. Based upon visits to both McChord AFB and Ft. Lewis and discussions with base officials about the joint proposal, the GAO concluded that “concerns over obstacles such as seeking efficiencies at the expense of the mission, could jeopardize a smooth and successful implementation of the recommendation” (p. 29). The report goes on to site the Air Force’s concerns that “most military personnel at McChord are mission critical and deployable, increasing the difficulty to identify possible Air Force military personnel reductions” (p. 161). Furthermore, in assessing the McChord-Ft. Lewis plan and other Department of Defense joint basing proposals, the GAO report reiterated its conclusion from a June 2005 GAO report that called into question the Pentagon’s ability to accurately forecast the true personnel needs associated with joint basing initiatives. The report states that “DoD and the military services’ ability to forecast base operations support requirements and funding needs has been hindered by the lack of a common terminology for defining base support functions, as well as by the lack of a mature analytic process for developing base support requirements” (p. 161-2). I urge you to take special note of the GAO’s conclusions as you assess the Pentagon’s McChord-Ft. Lewis proposal, particularly as they relate to the DoD’s job loss projections at McChord AFB. While I am not opposed to the Pentagon’s efforts to better leverage local assets and improve efficiency through joint basing, I believe the BRAC Commission and Congress must carefully scrutinize the DoD’s recommendations in order to ensure that military readiness is not compromised. With that in mind, I look forward to continuing to work with you in the coming months to implement the current BRAC round. Sincerely, //SIGNED// ADAM SMITH Member of Congress
6.28.2005	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) voted for H.R. 3057, the Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill for FY 2006. While not perfect, the bill increases funding to combat HIV, tuberculosis (TB) and malaria and increases funds for the Millennium Challenge Account (MCA) and humanitarian relief efforts in Sudan. “Global poverty is a destabilizing force with moral, humanitarian, economic and security consequences,” said Smith. “I’m pleased that this bill provides $2.7 billion to combat HIV infection, TB and malaria, a 23% increase over the current spending level. These diseases are devastating generations of people throughout the world and we have the resources to help combat these deadly diseases. I’m pleased that we are increasing the funding levels, but a great deal more remains to be done.” Overall, the United States has contributed well over half of all international funds for global HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment programs. Smith also noted, “I was pleased to see that funding levels for the MCA were increased over current spending levels, but was disappointed that the House budget allocation for the Foreign Operations subcommittee was so low that providing more funding was not possible.” The bill provides $1.75 billion for the MCA, which is $272 million more than the current level. The MCA grants assistance to countries that meet certain standards, including attacking corruption, respecting human rights, adhering to the rule of law, investing in health and education, encouraging economic freedom and maintaining sound budget policies. “We have a long way to go in the United States in combating global poverty,” Smith continued. “With the upcoming G8 summit focusing on global poverty, particularly in Africa, I will soon be introducing a bill in the House of Representatives that calls on the Bush Administration to make a firm commitment to fighting global poverty and come up with a concrete plan to address this issue. We have a moral obligation to help those around the world who face dire poverty on a daily basis. We can help and the time is now to fight global poverty before it drives millions of people into desperation and into the hands of extremist organizations like the al Qaeda network.” Smith has been deeply focused on the issue of global poverty and in March, 2005 he participated in the Trade and Poverty Forum in Nagoya, Japan. The forum brought together leaders from the business, political and NGO communities to develop strategies for combating poverty. Smith understands that our nation must make a greater commitment to poverty alleviation and view these efforts as an investment that can foster global stability and security, build alliances throughout the world and reduce the sense of hopelessness for billions of people. He is committed to helping marshal the political and social will to address global poverty.
6.24.2005	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) voted today in favor of an amendment that will restore funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), which supports programming such as the Public Broadcast Service (PBS) and National Public Radio (NPR). More than 82 million people watch PBS a week and more than 70% of American households watch PBS at least once per month. On top of this, over 30 million people a week listen to NPR. “PBS is an important part of many Americans’ lives,” said Smith. “From Sesame Street to Morning Edition to American Experience, many people around the country rely on public broadcasting for news and educational entertainment for their children. PBS is a vital cultural component for this country and I was pleased to see that the funding for the CPB was restored.” The amendment passed in the House 284 to 140. “I will continue my efforts to ensure that this funding is included in the final version of the bill,” said Smith. ”It is too important to fall victim to partisan politics.” The Senate will soon take up its version of the Labor/HHS Appropriations bill and, further down the line, conference with the House version. It is expected that funding for CPB will be restored.
6.20.2005	"I am pleased that H.R. 2863, the Fiscal Year 2006 Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations bill, passed the House of Representatives with broad bipartisan support,” said U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA). “As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am particularly focused on national security policy and am proud to support legislation that funds our defense missions and will support the servicemen and women of our Armed Forces and our Veterans.” The bill appropriates $408.9 billion, including $45.3 billion for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Included in the bill are earmarks that will specifically affect the members of our military in the Puget Sound region, including: IN THE PUGET SOUND REGION: Specifically, the Authorization Bill included the following provisions that directly affect units in the Puget Sound region: $30 million in school impact aid for schools nationwide (including schools in the Puget Sound area): The Education Department’s Impact Aid program provides supplementary funds to school districts nationwide to support the education of nearly 600,000 children of servicemen and women. This bill allocates $30 million in Defense Department funding for impact aid spending in FY 2006. $30 million for “Up-Armored HMMWV and Tactical Truck Crew Trainers” This top priority of the Washington Army National Guard will allow soldiers to train for convoy operations in humvees and other tactical trucks, a critical need for soldiers preparing for deployment to Iraq. $964.1 million to fully fund President Bush’s request for the Multi-Mission Maritime Aircraft (MMA) This critical program would adapt and upgrade Boeing 737s, in Boeing’s Renton plant, in order to conduct defense and homeland security-related missions. The MMA will replace the aging fleet of Navy P-3C aircraft with a technologically superior mission system that will allow it to perform anti-submarine warfare missions, homeland security surveillance and other important functions. $4.5 million for M-65 Bismaleimide Carbon Fiber Prepeg development for Automated Placement Machines This funding would go towards qualifying an improved carbon fiber tape technology used to process large, high quality aircraft structures. This technology, developed by Hexcel Structures, a company with manufacturing facilities in Kent, WA, will be used to more efficiently manufacture the military’s F-35 and F-22 aircraft. $3 million for Mounted Warrior Nomad Command: Control Head Up Display (C2HUD) For use by the Stryker Brigades stationed at Fort Lewis, the C2HUD, an integral part of the Mounted Warrior system, will increase force protection and unit lethality by providing the combat crewman’s situational awareness link to the vehicle’s command, control, communications, computers, and intelligence (C4I) systems remotely via secure, encrypted means. The head up display will operate in all soldier mission areas, employing information management systems, operations planning, situational awareness, terrain navigation, long range sensors, target acquisition, and identification systems while mounted, dismounted and at platform crew stations. The system also has significant potential for commercial spin off for the technology and is designed by Microvision, a Puget Sound-based company. TECHNOLOGY: “Having worked for many years to improve our military and the Pentagon through the use of technology, I am pleased that this bill also included my provision for the National Defense University (NDU) Technology Pilot program,” said Smith. “I have long supported this important program and am proud to work with the experts at NDU who are continuing to leverage our technological innovations to maintain the most advanced military in the world." $1 million for the NDU Technology Pilot Program The purpose of this project is to conduct research and analysis to determine how the United States can maintain its competitive edge against other military adversaries at a time when commercial information technology (IT) is readily available on the global market. Through a series of workshops, conferences, research papers and publications, the NDU has developed new strategies to deal with this issue. $4.5 million for the Green/Infrared Illumination Pointing Laser (GRI2P) This top priority of the U.S. Special Forces Command will give our special forces access to a new combat laser system designed for operations that require either a green or infrared based long-range laser system. This advanced technology, developed by B.E. Meyers in Redmond, WA, will help our special forces perform successfully in a broader range of missions. $5 million for the Biomarker Molecular Toxicology Initiative This funding will support highly advanced molecular biology research at the Institute for System Biology in Seattle. This research will help the military understand why certain humans are more or less susceptible to certain illnesses such as those resulting from exposure to chemical or biological toxins. OVERALL PROVISIONS IN THE FY 06 DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL More broadly, the bill appropriates $45.3 billion as a “bridge fund” for the first six months of FY 2006 for operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and the global war on terrorism. Within these funds, this includes $32.2 billion for operations and maintenance accounts, including $1.7 billion for added fuel costs and extra funds for body armor and $147 million for Army National Guard Recruting. The measure also contains $2.9 billion for various procurement accounts, including $170 million for up-armored Humvees, $20 million for bolt-on armor kits for trucks and $35 million for roadside bomb jammers. Finally, the bill provides $8 billion in extra funding for military personnel accounts, including $6.8 billion for incremental wartime costs of pays and allowances for Active Duty and Reserve personnel, $735 million for recruting and retention and $231 million for an expanded death gratuity. PAY INCREASES: Overall, the bill provides a 3.1% pay raise for members of the Armed Forces and increases amounts paid for active duty enlistments, reserve enlistments and active-duty re-enlistments.
6.17.2005	ssion, including Chairman Anthony Principi, James Bilbray, Philip Coyle and James Hansen are meeting in Portland, Oregon today to conduct a regional BRAC hearing where concerns and questions are raised about the BRAC implementation process. Mr. David Graybill, President and CEO of the Tacoma/Pierce County Chamber of Commerce and a Member of the Tacoma/Pierce County BRAC Citizen’s Task Force, is submitting the letter on behalf of the Members of Congress. “BRAC is one component of the Pentagon’s effort to ensure that our military is the best and most effective fighting force in the world,” said Smith, an honorary Co-Chair of the Tacoma/Pierce County BRAC Citizen’s Task Force. “That being said, I have several concerns that I would like the BRAC commission to consider and address, including the impact on the reduction of personnel at McChord AFB.” The entire text of the letter is below. Mr. Anthony Principi Chairman 2005 Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission 2521 S. Clark St., Ste. 600 Arlington, VA 22202 Dear Chairman Principi, First, we would like to thank you for your work on the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission. The difficult task that you and the Commission members are undertaking is critical for the future of our nation’s military. We appreciate your willingness to serve our nation in this capacity. We believe that the Defense Secretary’s BRAC recommendations largely recognize the important military assets we have in the Northwest. Our distinctive geography, unique military assets and dedicated servicemen and servicewomen, combine to position Northwest facilities as highly valuable for our nation’s security. However, we have some questions and concerns about the implementation of the proposed Joint Base Lewis-McChord and the proposed reduction in jobs affiliated with McChord AFB. While we applaud the Department of Defense’s willingness to better leverage local assets and improve efficiency through joint basing, the lack of detailed information about the proposal has made it difficult to truly evaluate the merits of this proposal. As the Commission considers the Defense Department’s proposals, we urge you to seek clarification on a number of critical points: What is the correct number of position cuts at McChord AFB? As you are aware, on May 13, 2005, the Department of Defense released its list of proposed closures and realignments of military installations. That list proposed 567 positions at McChord Air Force Base (424 military billets, 136 civilian positions and 7 net mission contractors). Recently, however, Senator Maria Cantwell received an e-mail from the Air Force listing the job reductions related to realignment at McChord as 629. Clarification is needed as to what the actual recommended number of job reductions related to McChord within the joint-basing initiative is. How was this number derived? What functions are recommended to be combined and what is the basis for expected efficiencies? Which jobs specifically are recommended for elimination? To date, we have been unable to learn how the Defense Department developed this job reduction proposal. We have spoken with the commanders of both Fort Lewis and McChord AFB, as well as members of Air Mobility Command, none of whom have a sense of how this figure was derived. The figure appears to be driven entirely by a small number of individuals within the Pentagon, making it difficult to evaluate the process by which the figure was developed. We have also been unable to obtain clarification as to which positions would be eliminated under joint basing. Without clarification on this point, it is impossible to determine the merits of the Department’s joint basing proposal, especially in terms of its impact on mission readiness. What is the impact of the proposed job reduction on mission readiness? As noted above, it is difficult to answer this question without clarification on how the job reduction number was derived or which positions are proposed for elimination. However, it is worth noting that the proposed cuts at McChord have the potential of affecting not only the administration of the base, but also the administration of the 62nd Airlift Wing’s mission. As you may know, the Army maintains two separate command structures at neighboring Ft. Lewis: a garrison command for oversight of the base and its functions, and a mission command for oversight over the units deployed from the base. The Air Force, on the other hand, combines both garrison command and mission command within the same structure at McChord AFB: the 62nd Airlift Wing. Cuts in the administration of the base may have the unintended consequence of cutting into the administration of the air mobility mission of the Wing. While local Air Force personnel agree that some efficiencies might be achieved through jointness (such as in the area of contracting), they have also informed me that given the high operations tempo at McChord AFB, they do not know how 567 positions can be eliminated at McChord AFB without affecting their ability to carry out their mission. With these questions in mind, we respectfully request that you carefully examine the Joint Base Lewis-McChord proposal and its impact on the air mobility mission. Like the Commission, we want to ensure that our nation is well positioned to protect itself from external threats and that its Armed Forces have the appropriate manpower they need to fulfill their mission. We look forward to working with you to implement the current base realignment and closure round to ensure the improved security of the United States. Sincerely, PATTY MURRAY MARIA CANTWELL United States Senator United States Senator NORM DICKS ADAM SMITH Member of Congress Member of Congress
6.16.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) today voted in favor of H.R. 2862, the Science-State-Justice Appropriations for FY 2006. While Smith was pleased that funds were included for several important local projects, he is concerned about the lack of funding of the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) and the Edward Byrne Memorial Formula Grants, both of which help fund increased policing efforts in local communities. “I am pleased that the Committee included their support for valuable programs and organizations such as the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative, Muckleshoot Indian Tribe Gang Prevention Program and World Vision’s ‘Vision Youth Program’ which leads local tutoring and mentoring activities,” said Smith. “These, among others, are programs and organizations that I have lent my support to in this year’s appropriations process.” Smith, however, is concerned about the level of funding for the COPS program which he sees as critical for the safety and security of the citizens of Washington State. “Washington State’s first responders rely on these funds for the personnel, training, support and equipment they need,” said Smith. “In the last ten years, the COPS Hiring program has added hundreds of officers to Washington State law enforcement agencies. As a result, crime has gone down in our local communities. Over the past few days, I have voted for several amendments that would fully fund this program and it is my hope that when this bill reaches the conference committee, COPS funding will be fully implemented.” Smith is also concerned about the funding level for Byrne grants, given to States to help in the fight against crime. Many task forces created by Byrne grants in Washington State are facing massive cuts. In the Ninth Congressional District, alone, three task forces will be affected. The Valley Narcotics Enforcement Team, located in South King County, will be cut by 76%, the Tacoma Regional Drug Task Force will be reduced by 62% and the Thurston County Narcotics Team will be reduced by 20%. “The cuts to these programs are disappointing because they have been effective partners in fighting crime,” said Smith. “As a former prosecutor, I know how important it is for law enforcement agencies to have the staffing and tools needed to effectively fight crime. The Byrne Grants were an effective tool in providing our crime fighters with what they need. It’s my hope that, during the conference committee, greater funding will be provided for Byrne Grants and I will work with my colleagues toward that goal.”
6.13.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) on Thursday, June 9th 2005, successfully attached language to the State Department Authorization for FY 2006 and 2007 urging the U.S. to do more to address global poverty. Due to Smith’s efforts, the House International Relations Committee, of which Smith is a member, agreed to include language declaring that the elimination of extreme global poverty should be a top priority of U.S. foreign policy. It also says the U.S. should work with all the players involved, including developing countries, donor countries and multilateral institutions to coordinate policy to address global poverty. Finally, the language urges the President to develop a comprehensive strategy to eliminate global poverty, which should include foreign assistance, foreign and local investment, technical assistance, private-public partnerships and debt relief. Smith has been deeply focused on the issue of global poverty and in March, 2005 he participated in the Trade and Poverty Forum in Nagoya Japan. The forum brought together leaders from the business, political and NGO communities to develop strategies for combating poverty. Smith understands that our nation must make a greater commitment to poverty alleviation and view these efforts as an investment that can foster global stability and security, build alliances throughout the world and reduce the sense of hopelessness that drives so many extremist organizations like the al Qaeda network. He is committed to helping marshal the political and social will to address global poverty. “Global poverty is a destabilizing force around the world. I am pleased that my colleagues on the International Relations Committee also recognize that this is a very serious issue and that the United States has a moral obligation and a strategic need to help eradicate global poverty.” The State Department language is one more step in Smith’s broader efforts on this issue. Smith plans to introduce a broader House Resolution this week that will call for a comprehensive study that will detail the American strategy for addressing poverty.
5.26.2005	“I am pleased that H.R. 1815, the Fiscal Year 2006 Department of Defense (DoD) Authorization bill, passed the House of Representatives with broad bipartisan support,” said U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA). “As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I was proud to help craft this legislation through the committee process and on the Floor of the House. While not perfect, the Defense Authorization bill is a positive step forward in providing our Veterans and servicemen and women the resources they deserve. This bill includes a number of provisions to support the members of our Armed Forces and our Veterans and also includes much-needed improvements in troop strength and equipment. Importantly, this legislation moves toward ending the injustice of the Disabled Veteran’s Tax and it improves bonuses for the men and women in our Guard and Reserve forces.” IN THE PUGET SOUND REGION: Specifically, the Authorization Bill included the following provisions that directly affect units in the Puget Sound region: $60 million in school impact aid for schools nationwide (including schools in the Puget Sound area): The Education Department’s Impact Aid program provides supplementary funds to school districts nationwide to support the education of nearly 600,000 children of servicemen and women. This bill authorizes $60 million in Defense Department funding for impact aid spending in FY 2006, a $10 million increase in FY 2005. $25 million for “Up-Armored HMMWV and Tactical Truck Crew Trainers” This top priority of the Washington Army National Guard will allow soldiers to train for convoy operations in humvees and other tactical trucks, a critical need for soldiers preparing for deployment to Iraq. $1.5 million for construction of the Homeland Security Multi-Functional Education Center at Camp Murray, Washington This project would consist of a 6,190 square foot, single story multi-functional Homeland Security education center. The new facility will support the 205th Training Regiment which has a Total Army School System (TASS) mission for units in the Pacific Northwest as well as agency supported activities. This project will improve the readiness of Army National Guard units as well as first responders in the Puget Sound area. $2.0 million for Madigan Army Medical Center Trauma Assistance (Tacoma Trauma Trust) Smith was pleased to help authorize funding for this critical military-civilian emergency health care partnership facilitated by the Tacoma Trauma Trust (TTT), a unique military-civilian partnership (MultiCare Health System, Franciscan Health System and Madigan Army Medical Center). TTT shares in the delivery of critical Level II trauma care to South King, Pierce, Kitsap and Thurston counties and southwest Washington as well as much needed trauma training for medical personnel. $961.4 million to fully fund President Bush’s request for the Multi-Mission Maritime Aircraft (MMA) This critical program would adapt and upgrade Boeing 737s, in Boeing’s Renton plant, in order to conduct defense and homeland security-related missions. The MMA will replace the aging fleet of Navy P-3C aircraft with a technologically superior mission system that will allow it to perform anti-submarine warfare missions, homeland security surveillance and other important functions. $2 million for M-65 Bismaleimide Carbon Fiber Prepeg development for Automated Placement Machines This funding would go towards qualifying an improved carbon fiber tape technology used to process large, high quality aircraft structures. This technology, developed by Hexcel Structures, a company with manufacturing facilities in Kent, WA, will be used to more efficiently manufacture the military’s F-35 and F-22 aircraft. $3.7 million for “mounted Warrior Nomad Command: Control Head Up Display (C2HUD) For use by the Stryker Brigades stationed at Fort Lewis, the C2HUD, an integral part of the Mounted Warrior system, will increase force protection and unit lethality by providing the combat crewman’s situational awareness link to the vehicle’s command, control, communications, computers, and intelligence (C4I) systems remotely via secure, encrypted means. The head up display will operate in all soldier mission areas, employing information management systems, operations planning, situational awareness, terrain navigation, long range sensors, target acquisition, and identification systems while mounted, dismounted and at platform crew stations. The system also has significant potential for commercial spin off for the technology and is designed by Microvision, a Puget Sound-based company. TECHNOLOGY: “Having worked for many years to improve our military and the Pentagon through the use of technology, I am pleased that this bill also included my provision for the National Defense University (NDU) Technology Pilot program,” said Smith. “I have long supported this important program and am proud to work with the experts at NDU who are continuing to leverage our technological innovations to maintain the most advanced military in the world." $1 million for the NDU Technology Pilot Program The purpose of this project is to conduct research and analysis to determine how the United States can maintain its competitive edge against other military adversaries at a time when commercial information technology (IT) is readily available on the global market. Through a series of workshops, conferences, research papers and publications, the NDU has developed new strategies to deal with this issue. OVERALL PROVISIONS IN THE FY 06 DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL PAY INCREASES: Overall, the bill provides a 3.1% pay raise for members of the Armed Forces and increases amounts paid for active duty enlistments, reserve enlistments and active-duty re-enlistments. It also permanently increases the death gratuity to $100,000 and it increases the maximum amount of hardship pay from $300 to $750 per month. VETERANS DISABILITY/CONCURRENT RECEIPT Until last year, military retired pay had to be reduced by the amount of any Veterans Administration (VA) disability compensation received. Under “concurrent receipt,” disabled Veterans can receive both their Social Security and Veteran’s Disability benefits concurrently. The FY 2004 Defense Authorization Act directed that the prohibition on concurrent receipt of disability compensation and military retirement pay be phased out over 10 years for disabled Veterans wounded in combat, Veterans with combat-related injuries, including all National Guard and reserve members, and every veteran whose disabilities are rated 50% or greater. The bill moves up the date for full receipt for 100% disabled veterans – defined by being unemployable – to October 1, 2009, four years and three months earlier than currently scheduled. TRICARE FOR GUARD/RESERVE The bill expands the military health care system, TRICARE, for Guard and Reserve program to include dental benefits. This means that Guard and Reserve members, who are eligible for TRICARE health coverage beginning 90 days before their call-up and for 180 days after their deployment, are now also available for dental care coverage.
5.25.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement today on H.R. 1815, the FY 2006 National Defense Authorization Act: “I’m pleased that this bill includes a number of provisions to support our troops and veterans including a 3.1% pay increase across-the-board for all our servicemen and women, incentives and bonuses for our Guard and Reserve, including a $15,000 enlistment bonus, and $3.3 billion for better force protection for our troops, including more up-armoured Humvees, body armor and jammers. As more servicemen and women encounter the stresses of combat, I’m pleased that the House adopted an amendment that would improve the awareness of mental-health treatment availability and to reduce the stigma associated with mental health care for our servicemembers.” PLEASE NOTE: A more comprehensive press release of provisions included in the bill, particularly those affecting the Puget Sound region, will be available tomorrow.
5.24.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement today concerning the passage of H.R. 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act: “I was pleased that the U.S. House of Representatives took the initiative and passed the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. This is a step in the right direction that will allow the United States to maintain its scientific and technical edge. Increasing the number of stem cell lines available to scientists is vital to realize the full potential of embryonic stem cell research. It is important that people realize that the bill that was passed today implements strong ethical guidelines to ensure federal oversight of the research. These guidelines include using embryos that were created for fertility treatment purposes only and are in excess of clinical needs. Another requirement is that the individuals choosing to donate excess embryos must provide written consent and cannot receive any financial compensation.” The 22 stem cell lines currently in existence are aged, contaminated with mouse cells and were developed with outdated techniques. With passage of this bill, the United States will be able to do advanced medical research that could lead to cures for numerous diseases and afflictions including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease and Multiple Sclerosis, which affect millions throughout the world. I will be hosting a Life Sciences Forum at the Renton City Hall on Wednesday, June 1st from 1:00-4:30 p.m. that will be focusing on the role that local, state and federal governments can play in encouraging research and development in the life sciences arena. Embryonic stem cell research is fundamental in ensuring that the United States remains the home of the latest advances in medicine and science.”
5.13.2005	Today, Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement concerning the announcement from the Pentagon on the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC): “Today, the Pentagon released the results of the BRAC Commission and announced that the Department of Defense (DoD) will be undertaking an unprecedented initiative in Washington State by creating joint-base Lewis-McChord. As a result, installation management functions will be consolidated at Fort Lewis. According to the Defense Department estimates, as a result of this action, the economic impact will be limited to .2 percent of the economic area employment. The Pentagon has said the primary rationale for this recommendation is to promote jointness and reduce excess capacity. Also, the Navy-Marine Corps Reserve Center in Tacoma, Washington will be closed with a resulting 20 members of the military being transferred to other locations. I will be working closely with leaders in the community to ease the transition as a result of this decision. The BRAC Commission has recognized the fact that the Northwest is home to military assets with joint capability that are flexible, are prepared to mobilize at a moment’s notice, and are located in a strategic region with easy access to the Pacific Theater. As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have worked closely on force structure issues, and I’m proud to represent thousands of military servicemen and women and their families. Those stationed in Washington State have been a central component in the War on Terrorism and the war in Iraq. Over 6,000 active-duty troops based at Fort Lewis along with almost 4,000 National Guardsmen from the State have fought in Iraq. Also, over 2000 Washington State based airmen and women have been involved in air refueling and transport operations in Iraq. Additionally, sailors stationed in Everett aboard the USS Lincoln, and airmen at McChord Air Force Base, both active-duty and reserve, aided in recovery efforts in helping out the South Asian tsunami victims. Washington State is ideally located for a number of contingencies. Today’s decision is a testament not only to the flexibility and jointness of the military forces in Washington State, but to the hardworking community leaders that have done so much to make the military an integral part of the fabric of our communities and our everyday lives. I am proud of the work our servicemen and women do across the United States. In the coming weeks, we will be learning more details about troop movements and realignments and their impact on our community. I, along with my Congressional colleagues, will be focusing on this issue and I look forward to working with communities in my own District and across the State in ensuring that our military servicemen and women get the resources that they need as well as the communities that will be affected by any realignments.”
5.11.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Smith, (D-Tacoma), made the following statement today on the failure of the COPS Funding: “Once again, the Republican majority has failed to support legislation that would fund the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. Today, a motion on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives would have allowed an amendment to reauthorize the COPS program for FY 2006 -2008. The vote failed 227 – 198, along party lines. The program has been one of the most effective crime prevention efforts authorized by Congress. In Washington State alone, the COPS program has provided funds to add over 400 officers to Washington State law enforcement agencies. Without full funding, Washington State law enforcement will suffer as will the safety and security of all those living in the state. Cutting this funding will have a detrimental effect that will resonate in every state in the country. Since 1994, COPS has distributed billions of dollars to advance community policing efforts. As a former prosecutor, I know the positive impact that community policing efforts can have in our cities and states. We must fund this important program and give local law enforcement the help they need in their fight against crime.”
5.6.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) reacts to Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer Statement on Commitment to Diversity: “I want to take the opportunity today to applaud Steve Ballmer and the Microsoft Corporation for pledging to include diversity in the workplace as part of the company’s legislative agenda. Microsoft is a leader in the business community on gay and lesbian rights and is taking the right approach by revisiting their legislative agenda to include policies that create a fair working environment. Supporting federal legislation that would prohibit employment discrimination based on sexual orientation is also a positive position. I have long been an advocate for gay and lesbian rights and I am pleased to work with Microsoft in moving its agenda forward on erasing discrimination from the workplace. I will also continue my efforts on issues of shared concern such as Internet safety, intellectual property rights and a healthy business climate. Microsoft is a leader on non-discrimination issues in corporate America. Its commitment to diversity both within and outside the company stands as a testament to its philosophy of equality for all people – regardless of their sexual orientation.”
5.4.2005	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement today concerning his opposition to the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA): “Trade is an important component of international relations and development, particularly to Washington State. We must craft a trade policy that provides American workers and businesses with real opportunity to grow and that strengthens our economy. Time and again, the Bush Administration has failed to promote an economic competitiveness policy and it is our businesses and workers who will be hurt. The Bush Administration’s most recent trade agreement, the Dominican Republic – Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), does not balance the needs of American workers and companies, nor the needs of the nations with which we trade. It is for the reasons below that I will oppose this agreement on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Bush Administration’s fiscal irresponsibility -- including its misguided philosophy on spending and tax cuts -- has undermined our ability to invest in education and skills training that are desperately needed in this country. Domestically, the President has not done enough to help American workers retrain and compete on the international stage. Too often, the Administration, under President Bush, has chosen economic policies that damage our ability to have a sound policy on trade. For example, we must take strong steps forward with investment in research and development programs that allow government to partner with universities and businesses to spur innovation. The Administration’s massive tax cuts have undermined our ability to empower Americans to further their education and skills training. I am deeply dismayed that they have pursued policies that leave many workers who qualify for Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) benefits without access to the program simply because the Administration either can’t or won’t provide adequate funding. If this failure to invest in TAA and other critical domestic workforce programs can be said to be a problem now, it will only get worse if the Bush tax cuts are made permanent. We cannot stand by quietly as the Administration’s fiscal irresponsibility continues to undercut necessary domestic investments. Globally, through its trade policy, the Administration has done little to help workers overseas. With CAFTA, an opportunity has been missed to put forward an agreement that balances the need to open global markets to American workers and businesses and promotes growth and stability overseas. As negotiated by the Bush Administration, CAFTA actually weakens the existing workers’ protections currently available under the United States’ existing trade preference programs with the region. Similarly, on environmental protection, rural development and public health, this agreement falls short. While CAFTA rightly includes protections for the intellectual property rights that are so important to our region, the Administration failed to take such a serious approach on workers’ rights and environmental protections. CAFTA and indeed many of the Administration’s economic policies falls far short of creating a cohesive and comprehensive policy on trade.”
5.3.2005	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith made the following statement today concerning Cover the Uninsured Week, May 1-8th, 2005: “Today, 45 million Americans have no health insurance, including more than 8 million children. In Washington State alone, 944,000 people are uninsured. Being uninsured means going without needed medical care. It means minor illnesses become major ones because medical care is often delayed. It also means that one significant medical expense can wipe out a family’s life savings. As the price of health care continues to rise, fewer individuals and families can afford to pay for coverage. Fewer small businesses are able to provide coverage for their employees and those that do are struggling to hold on to the coverage they offer. There are things we can do and I have taken a number of steps in Congress to try and address this issue. First of all, I have cosponsored The Small Business health Benefits Program (SEHBP) Act of 2005. This bill would offer small business employers are affordable choices among private health insurance plans by giving them access to a large purchasing pool and negotiated rates. These employers would also receive an annual tax credit to defray part of the employer contribution for low-income workers and a bonus tax credit for paying a higher percentage of the premium. Unlike Association Health Plans (AHPs), this bill does not allow insurance plans to override state law and also SEHBPs would be transferable across the country so that you’re still covered, even if you move to another state. I have also supported funding for Community Health Centers, which serve more than 15 million uninsured Americans each year. These Centers provide badly needed health care services to individuals who would otherwise go without access to quality medical care. Further, I have cosponsored The Bipartisan Commission on Medicaid that would create a commission to conduct a comprehensive review of the Medicaid program and make recommendations on how to improve service delivery and ensure that Medicaid recipients receive high quality health care. These are just a few of the priorities I’ve pursued in my effort to expand access to health care for all Americans. I am committed to continuing my work on this vital issue.”
4.22.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement in honor of Earth Day: “Today marks 35 years since the first Earth Day. We, as a nation, have come a long way in terms of protecting our environment and our outlook on our responsibilities towards the environment. As a native Washingtonian, I have always valued the clean air and water in the Pacific Northwest. I have worked on legislation to protect these natural wonders and I have also been active on environmental issues including funding programs that will encourage the use of more efficient technology. For example, I have supported responsible funding increases for the Environmental Protection Agency’s Energy Star program. The Energy Star program has a cost-effective, proven track record of saving energy and money. In fact, for every dollar spent on program costs, the Energy Star program produces average energy bill savings of $75 and sparks $15 in investment in new technology. Investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy are particularly effective strategies for lowering energy costs. A mix of sustainable energy technologies offers one of the most cost-effective options for reducing the export of U.S. dollars to pay for burgeoning oil and natural gas imports. Renewable energy technologies also have the unique potential to tap domestic resources and create new sources of energy like solar and wind power. I have made several efforts on this front including supporting a long-term extension of the wind production tax credit which provides a 1.8-cent (adjusted periodically for inflation) per kilowatt-hour credit for electricity produced from a wind farm during the first 10 years of its operation. There is still much more to be done and I am committed to continuing the progress. I am currently exploring ways for the promotion and development of next-generation building technology. The Department of Energy recently stated that buildings consume 39 percent of the energy used in the United States, more than cars or manufacturing plants. I’m pleased to see that Washington will become the first state in the nation to require new prisons, offices, schools, colleges and other publicly funded buildings meet a national environmental standard. This is a step in the right direction and I’m encouraged that in the future we will be able to incorporate cutting-edge technology that makes our buildings safer and more sustainable."
4.21.2005	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement today concerning his vote against H.R. 6, the Energy Policy Act of 2005: ”The first generation of U.S. environmental laws and regulations enacted in the 1960s and early 1970s were state-of-the-art public policies at that time. They cleaned up air and water, and were rightly emulated in much of the developing world. They also gave rise to a new sector of the economy: thousands of jobs were created in the construction of water treatment plants and other infrastructure necessary to meet the new environmental standards. Yet the bill that is before the House today does not have the same vision for the future as these bills had. It should be a top national security priority of the United States to significantly reduce its consumption of foreign oil, yet the Republican-sponsored bill, does virtually nothing to stop this foreign dependence. In fact, traditional energy sources such as oil and natural gas reap 93 percent of the tax incentives in this bill, equivalent to $7.5 billion. In fact, this bill would provide more than $22 billion to the oil, gas, and other energy industries in tax breaks, direct spending and authorizations. Meanwhile, renewable energy and conservation initiatives receive only 7 percent. We must invest in emerging technologies, renewable energy, and energy efficiency and conservation. It is vital for our economy that our country’s economic growth is not constrained by the price of oil. The Bush Administration’s backward-looking energy and environmental polices have left the United States ill-equipped to compete with other nations in the booming global market for environmentally clean technologies. For example, the U.S. wind power generation capacity of 6,370 megawatts – enough for approximately 6 million homes – is dwarfed by Germany’s 14,600 megawatts. We can, and should, do better. By making investments in emerging technologies and renewable energy resources, the United States has the potential to be a net exporter of renewable energy, not an importer of foreign oil. Finally, this bill is anti-environment. I, along with many of my Democratic colleagues, voted for an amendment that would strip the provision to allow the drilling of gas and oil in the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge. We were not successful. Once drilling is allowed in one of the most natural, pristine places in the country, where will our environment be protected? In fact, this bill makes it easier for oil drilling in the protected areas off our coastlines as well. The time is now for the United States to adopt a real energy policy: a policy that will invest in new technologies, new energy resources and that will increase our national security by decreasing our dependence on foreign oil. It is time for us to adopt an energy policy that not only makes the United States a net-exporter of renewable energy but that protects our environment as well. This bill does none of this, and I had to vote against the Energy Policy Act of 2005 for these reasons.”
4.20.2005	Today, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) appointed Norma Kelsey as his delegate to the White House Conference on Aging, to be held in Washington, DC from October 23 – 26, 2005. The White House Conference on Aging occurs once a decade to make policy recommendations to the President and Congress, and to assist the public and private sectors in promoting dignity, health, independence and economic security for current and future generations of older Americans. “I’m pleased that Ms. Kelsey has agreed to serve as the delegate to the White House Conference on Aging for the Ninth District of Washington,” said Smith. “Ms. Kelsey’s many years of advocacy work on behalf of older Americans is a testament to her enthusiasm and tenacity in ensuring equality and thoughtful public policy for everyone in our local community.” Ms. Kelsey served for 12 years as president of her local union, Office and Professional Employees Local 8. She has served on the boards of the King County Labor Council, El Centro de la Raza and the King County Association for Retarded Citizens. She is currently a member of the board of the Puget Sound Alliance for Retired Americans.
4.15.2005	U.S. Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement calling for the creation of a bipartisan taskforce on ethics: "Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives had the opportunity to create a bipartisan task force with the responsibility to restore public confidence in the ethics process and to report its findings to the House,” said Smith. “I’m concerned that decisions have been made with regards to House ethics rules on a partisan basis, without proper consultation from both sides of the aisle. I’m disappointed that the majority of my Republican colleagues did not join me yesterday in taking action to ensure that the ethics process in the House is fair and that public confidence can be restored.”
4.14.2005	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith made the following statement today concerning bankruptcy reform: “Our current bankruptcy system should be reformed. As a matter of personal responsibility, people should, whenever possible, pay off the debts that they have incurred. However, the bankruptcy bill that was before the U.S. House of Representatives today was a missed opportunity to create a reform bill that both promoted personal responsibility and was fair and balanced,” said Smith. “This bill failed to close troubling loopholes, like the homestead exemptions which allow wealthy Americans to shield money in real estate and the creation of trusts where people can hide assets that can’t be touched during bankruptcy proceeding. I’m am also troubled by the growing trend in which credit card companies are actively marketing their products to those who can least afford to take on additional high-interest credit. This legislation does little to discourage this damaging practice. The Republican House leadership failed to allow any Democratic amendments that could have offered balanced solutions for closing loopholes, protecting consumers and bolstering personal responsibility. Instead, partisan politics shaped this flawed bill and it was because of these flaws I voted against its passage today.”
4.2.2005	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement today on the death of Pope John Paul II: “The world has lost a visionary leader with the passing of Pope John Paul II. He was a man who possessed empathy for people around the world and whose diplomatic efforts helped bring about the end of the Cold War. He will be remembered as a man who led efforts to help the poor in numerous nations and on all continents and was an inspiration to us all. I join with my fellow Americans in this time of sorrow in remembering a man of compassion and integrity.”
3.28.2005	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) will be traveling today to Thailand and Japan to attend a series of meetings and a forum on global sustainable development initiatives, trade, and global poverty. Smith, a member of the House International Relations Committee, has a strong interest in sustainable development issues and how these tie into the broader picture of global security and poverty. Smith will participate in the Trade and Poverty Forum (TPF) in Nagoya, Japan. The TPF is a project of the German Marshall Fund of the United States and is an independent group of prominent citizens from some of the world’s leading developing and industrialized democracies including the U.S., Europe, Japan, India, Brazil and South Africa. The goal of the forum will be to advance concrete, consensus-based trade reform proposals, particularly on agriculture, that could form the basis of an agreement in the current round of World Trade Organization (WTO), the Doha Round. Smith will serve on a panel called “Trade Reform – State of the Doha Round: Agriculture and Beyond”. Smith will also be visiting with officials in Thailand to discuss bilateral economic relations and learn about Thailand’s efforts to combat poverty and promote sustainable development. Some of the officials Smith will meet with in Thailand include the Thai Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Thai Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives, the U.S. Ambassador to Thailand and members of the American business community in Bangkok. “The ability to travel and meet with officials and NGOs fighting the global war on poverty first-hand is critical to my understanding of the issues,” said Smith. “I can receive briefings in my District and in Washington, D.C., but you learn so much more when you’re on the ground and meeting with people who work on these issues every single day. Global poverty is a force that is very destabilizing to the global economy, but it also has far reaching consequences for global health and security. Global poverty is directly linked to conflicts throughout the world. Through sustainable development initiatives, we will be able to reduce poverty levels in developing nations and work to create a safer and secure global environment.” Smith will be returning at the end of the Spring Congressional recess.
3.18.2005	U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement today concerning the passage of the FY06 Budget Resolution: "I am disappointed that, once again, the Republican-controlled House of Representatives passed a budget that is fiscally irresponsible, that underfunds investment to key priorities like education, health care, law enforcement and Veteran's benefits. This year, the federal government has a projected deficit of $427 billion - the largest in our Nation's history according to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). But this year's numbers are simply the latest in a horrible trend. Two years ago, we had a deficit of $375 billion. Last year we had a deficit of $412 billion. Each of those deficits set the record for highest deficits of that time. More troubling is that, unless we change our policies, our existing debt of almost $8 trillion will continue to explode. The budget passed yesterday contains no plan to bring the budget back to balance and even fails to show any deficit figures at all after 2010. I voted for a Democratic alternative budget that increases funding for education and our veterans. At the same time, the alternative budget that I supported reaches balance in 2012 and included pay-as-you-go rules that ensures the government pays for any new spending, and results in $182 billion less public debt than the Republican budget at the end of the first five years. The Republican majority chose to reject this budget alternative and adopted a resolution that impairs our economic growth and hurts some of our most vulnerable citizens, our children and our disabled veterans. The Republican budget resolution is bad for public education. We must invest in our future and K-12 and higher education are crucial to ensuring that our nation remains competitive and vibrant. Yet, the Republican resolution cuts funding for education programs by $2.6 billion for 2006 and $38 billion over the next five years. These cuts include all $1.3 billion for vocational education and other elementary, secondary and college aid programs. The Democratic alternative budget actually provided $4.5 billion more for 2006 appropriations for education, training, and social services. This funding would not only have preserved current education programs, but it also would have supported increases in high priority programs such as access to post-secondary education. I was also particularly troubled by the manner in which the Republican budget treats veterans. With our continued presence in military operations around the world, including on-going commitments in Iraq and Afghanistan, we will have more wounded soldiers coming home who will need access to quality health care. Instead of ensuring that all of our veterans will have access to this critical resource, the Republican budget resolution cuts veterans' health care. Over the next five years, this critical area is funded at $14 billion below current levels. Additionally, the Republican resolution requires the Veterans' Affairs Committee to make $798 million in cuts to other veteran's benefits over the next five years. This cut can only be achieved by imposing new fees for veterans' health care, or by reducing veterans' benefits such as disability pay, pension benefits or education benefits. This is wrong. The Democratic alternative budget that I voted for contains $1.6 billion more than the Republican budget for veterans' health care programs for 2006 and $17 billion more over the next five years, while still continuing to reduce the deficit. The lack of fiscal responsibility and cuts to necessary funding for areas such as veterans are just some of the reasons why I voted against the Republican budget resolution. It is time for Members of Congress to get serious about fiscal responsibility and begin to take steps to get our country's budget on the right track. If we continue to spend without restraint, whether it is for tax cuts or program spending, we are placing the economic burden on future generations instead of dealing with the problem now. We must have an open and honest debate with Americans about what we can truly afford. We must continue to fight for budgets that are fiscally responsible and preserve the best of American values and ideals.”
3.17.2005	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) announced today that he along with five other Members of the Washington State Delegation have written a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee on Appropriations asking that they restore the irresponsible cuts to the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program which the President eliminated in his Fiscal Year 2006 Budget. According to the letter, “The Administration’s FY 2006 budget fails to include any future funding for the COPS program. As a result, local Washington law enforcement will be crippled.” The letter goes on to state that, “In the last ten years, the COPS Hiring program has added over 400 officers to Washington State law enforcement agencies.” “These funds are critical for the safety and security of the citizens of Washington State,” said Smith. “The COPS program has been a central and successful component of our fight against crime. It is shameful that the current Administration would eliminate funding for COPS and, in doing so, risk making our communities less safe.” The complete text of the letter is below: March 17, 2005 The Honorable C.W. Bill Young The Honorable David Obey Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Appropriations Committee on Appropriations H-218 Capitol 1016 Longworth HOB Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Young and Ranking Member Obey As members of the Washington State Delegation, we are opposed to cuts in assistance to local law enforcement. We are writing to ask that the Appropriations Committee please increase the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) funding to reflect the needs of the first responders in our communities and restore the Bush Administration’s proposed cuts for the Fiscal Year 2006 Budget. The Administration’s FY 2006 budget fails to include any future funding for the COPS program. As a result, local Washington law enforcement will be crippled. Washington’s first responders rely on these funds for the personnel, training, support and equipment they need. Under legislation passed by the House last year, the COPS program should be funded at $1 billion. Unfortunately, the program only received approximately $500 million in FY 2005. The President has gone out of his way to thank our police officers for making our country more secure. We believe the full extent of our gratitude is measured in how we fiscally prioritize their technical, operational, and hiring needs. Furthermore, we do not agree with assertion that the COPS program is ineffective. In the last ten years, the COPS Hiring program has added over 400 officers to Washington State law enforcement agencies. We strongly believe that the Fiscal Year 2006 funding levels for the COPS program must be increased to continue to show the federal governments commitment in helping our law enforcement community do their job. Without full funding, Washington law enforcement will suffer and, as a result, so too will the security and safety of Washington State citizens. As such, we respectfully request that the Appropriations Committee reconsider the President’s cuts in the COPS program and restore funding to these important programs. Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to working with you in a bipartisan manner on this issue. Sincerely, //SIGNED// U.S. Rep. Adam Smith U.S. Rep. Norm Dicks U.S. Rep. Brian Baird U.S. Rep. Jim McDermott U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee
3.3.2005	Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement today concerning yesterday’s passage of H.R. 27, the Job Training Improvement Act: “I am disappointed that yesterday, the House of Representatives failed to address the needs of American workers. Reauthorization of the Workforce Investment Act (WIA) was an opportunity to improve this important act and address the changes taking place in our economy. Unfortunately, HR 27 will do little to enhance the training and career opportunities of unemployed workers. Instead, the legislation would eliminate the dislocated worker training program, reduce and restrict services for in-school youth, siphon off funds used to serve veterans and individuals with disabilities, and allow discrimination in hiring based on an individual’s religious beliefs. It’s bad enough that this bill does so little for American workers, but it also undermines key civil rights protections. Specifically, I am deeply concerned that the bill repeals current civil rights protections by allowing faith-based organizations to discriminate in hiring based on religion with Federal taxpayer dollars. This is in clear violation of the core principle of separation of Church and State and it is my hope that this legislation will not be enacted into law. This provision is as needless as it is troubling. We can and must ensure civil rights protections – unfortunately, a Democratic amendment that would maintain these protections failed to pass. Finally, though the Republican Party often claims to be one of accountability, this Republican-led bill removed many of the federal performance and accountability measurements that make WIA a quality workforce program. This is not a way to bring accountability to the federal government. I believe it is critical that Congress do more to create job and training opportunities. This bill takes a step backwards in our efforts to reach this goal. It is my hope that Congress will work towards meaningful reforms that will do more, not less, to protect workers and create opportunity for all Americans.”
2.7.2005	U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement today concerning President Bush’s FY 2006 Budget: “President Bush’s FY 2006 Budget is another example of lost opportunity and fiscal irresponsibility. The budget that President Bush is proposing today is a farce and is purposely misleading the American people. By not including in this budget expected costs for continued military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, $2 trillion dollars in expected funds for Social Security reform or the costs of making permanent his first-term tax cuts, Bush is using smoke and mirror tactics in claiming that this budget is bare bones and fiscally responsible. This budget adds more than $4 trillion to the deficit over the next 10 years. As a matter of fact, the federal deficit is projected to reach a record $427 billion this year alone. The budget also has its priorities all wrong. For example, his budget cuts funding for the The Community Oriented Policing Services, or COPS program, which provides grants for state and local agencies to hire police officers. The COPS program, in the President’s budget, would be cut by $480 million, and his budget slashes funding for local firefighters by $215 million, cuts of 80 percent and 30 percent, respectively. In addition to the cuts to the COPS program and firefighters, in the budget for 2006, discretionary spending -- meaning other than entitlement programs such as Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare -- would rise just 2.1 percent, lower than the expected rate of inflation. Within that category, extra money would go to defense and homeland security, leaving most other discretionary programs frozen or falling. Along with sub-standard increases in needed discretionary funding, the proposed budget does not adequately address the needs of the servicemen and women in our military. Also, given the current strain on our military, the President’s budget only provides a bare minimum pay raise of 3.1 percent. It does not provide targeted pay raises to the troops who we most need to retain: senior enlisted personnel and junior and warrant officers. The budget raises health care costs for hundreds of veterans, imposing new co-payments on prescription drugs and enrollment fees that will cost veterans hundreds of millions of dollars. Callously, the President’s budget does not contain funding to increase the death gratuity for the families of those killed in service to our nation. Although funding may be included in the upcoming supplemental request, those funds will only cover fiscal year 2005. Our efforts overseas will not end with the fiscal year on September 30, 2005—why should this important funding? Finally, this budget puts off a decision to permanently increase the end-strength of the Army and Marine Corps – at a time when we are engaged around the world and our military is stretched thin. Finally, as a Member of the House Armed Services Committee and someone who cares deeply about making sure the Pentagon leverages technology, I’m committed to making sure our servicemembers have the best and most advanced equipment in the world. I’ll work to protect R&D and technology funds at the Pentagon so that we maintain technological superiority. In addition to not fully funding the critical needs of our military, the President’s budget does not go far enough in cutting corporate farm subsides. It is well past-time that we started to eliminate corporate farm subsidies in this country. Farm subsidies are fiscally irresponsible and that’s why I voted against the bloated farm bill. Not only do they hurt our trade relations with other countries, but they stunt sustainable development efforts overseas. Corporate farm subsidies are the worst form of government handouts and that is why I am introducing legislation to create bipartisan commissions to identify wasteful government programs and subsidies, and recommend them for elimination. The Program Reform Commission Act and the Corporate Subsidy Reform Commission Act would urge Congress to promptly consider legislation that would implement the Commissions’ findings and recommendations. This is a time when we need to be truly fiscally responsible and put everything on the table, including the President’s tax cuts for the very wealthy. The Republicans control the House, the Senate and the White House, yet they can’t control their spending. As Members of Congress, we need to lay out a reasonable plan with the right priorities to get us back on track to a balanced and fiscally responsible budget."
2.3.2005	U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) announced today that he has again been named to serve on the House Armed Services (HASC) and House International Relations (HIRC) Committees. On HASC, he will maintain his seat on the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee and will, once again, serve on the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee. “It is an honor for me to continue to serve on the House Armed Services Committee,” said Smith. “The men and women serving in our Armed Forces are truly America’s guardians and it is a privilege for me to work with them and help to ensure our nation’s security. I will continue to keep vigilant on unconventional threats facing our military. Having Ft. Lewis and McChord Air Force Base in my District continues to highlight the importance of serving on the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee. I look forward to continuing my work to make our Air Force and Army the best air and land forces in the world.” On the HIRC, Smith will continue his role on the Asia/Pacific Subcommittee and will add the Europe and Emerging Threats Subcommittee to his responsibilities. “Washington State has huge ties, not only in trade, but also in culture and family, to the Asia-Pacific region of the world. I’m glad that I will continue to serve on this important subcommittee and am excited about my new role on the Europe and Emerging Threats subcommittee.” Smith continued, “This opportunity will allow me to shape America’s foreign policy and continue my work on international economics and development.”
2.2.2005	The following is a statement from Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) on his reaction to President Bush’s 2005 State of the Union Address: “The President’s speech tonight fell short in a number of key areas. First and most importantly, there wasn’t a lot of discussion about how we are going to get back to a fiscally responsible federal government. This year’s deficit could reach over $420 billion and while the President mouthed support for fiscal responsibility, he gave no ideas about how he was going to curb his spending and tax cuts. Clearly, his most important domestic priority is reforming Social Security, yet he did not give details of his plan; a plan that would cost upwards of $2 trillion for private accounts. In the long term, the impact on our economy, in fact the world economy, will be hurt if we don’t balance our books. The President’s plan on social security will place in jeopardy the core purpose of Social Security: provide seniors in this country with a guaranteed benefit. While social security is not meant to be the sole means of one’s retirement, at the end of the day, it must be there as the constant part of a diversified portfolio that can include investments in stocks, bonds and other forms of investment.”
1.25.2005	The following is a statement by Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) on the new Congressional Budget Office (CBO) Economic Outlook for Fiscal Years 2006-2015: “The economic outlook affirms what we already know: Washington D.C. has thrown fiscal responsibility out the window. In the last four years, the Bush Administration and Congress have taken a ten-year surplus of $5.6 trillion and created a deficit of at least $2.6 trillion. The new CBO budget forecast projects a deficit of $855 billion over the period of 2006-2015, although this projection underestimates the deficit because of the assumptions that the CBO is required to make by law. CBO must assume in its baseline that all current tax cuts scheduled to expire in the future do so, while also assuming spending on annual appropriations only grows with the rate of inflation. The estimated $ 855 billion also does not account for the estimated deficit for fiscal year 2005 which is expected to be at least $ 368 billion. There are three fundamental problems with CBO’s new economic forecast: The CBO is assuming that when the Bush tax cuts expire, they will not be renewed. Every indication that I have seen from this Administration and the Republican-controlled Congress, is that they plan to make the tax cuts permanent and possibly install additional cuts. The CBO is also assuming that no additional costs for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan in future years because there is no new funding in the budget for 2005 to be carried forward. And yet, an $80 billion supplemental spending bill is being prepared to be sent to Congress in the next few weeks. The CBO also disregards what the President has said about proposed spending such as reforming Social Security, including privatization, even though his plan would add approximately $2 trillion to the deficit over the next ten years. Congress must give the American people a truthful estimate of our fiscal state and this report does not give them those answers. The three factors I have outlined must be included in any projection as they are all likely, if not definite, spending the federal government is expected to act on this year. The CBO estimates along with projections by the Bush Administration are not accurate reflections of our economy but instead they are filled with accounting gimmicks to make the future appear rosier than it will be. The time to come up with a real plan to pay down the debt and get our budget back on track is now. Otherwise, the costs will be enormous not only to our children and grandchildren, but they will also wreck havoc on our economy and plunge this country into a worse financial crisis for decades to come.”
1.14.2005	The United States Treasury Department issued rules on Thursday related to a provision in HR 4520. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA-09) has been a leader in advocating for this proposal since he introduced HR 1162, “The Invest in America Act” which was introduced in March of 2003. “I’m pleased that the Treasury Department has issued guidelines for the reinvestment provisions contained in last year’s broader tax legislation,” said Smith. “In introducing the Democratic version of this provision, my goal was to enact a fiscally responsible, short-term tax incentive designed to stimulate the economy, encourage job growth and promote investment in domestic needs. This has been a long fight but companies today have some guidance to make business decisions that will bring funds back to the United States and help grow our economy.” Smith introduced HR 1162 in March 2003 and garnered the support of 29 House colleagues. This legislation was a key priority of the New Democrat Coalition (NDC) and was broadly supported by the NDC membership. Smith led the Democratic effort to ensure inclusion of this proposal in the larger tax legislation. The law approved by Congress would let companies take advantage of the lower rate if they put forward a board-approved domestic reinvestment plan to reinvest their profits in ways that enhance employment in the United States. Specifically, it allows companies a one-time opportunity to bring a total of as much as $500 billion in foreign profits into the United States and pay a tax rate of 5.25 percent, instead of the standard corporate tax rate of 35 percent. Under the guidelines announced by the Treasury Department today, firms can use the repatriated earnings for hiring and training workers, capital investments, research and development, certain acquisitions, and advertising and marketing. The repatriated funds cannot be used for executive compensation, intercompany transactions, increased dividends, stock redemptions, portfolio investments, purchase of debt instruments or tax payments. “I’m pleased that the Treasury Department has adopted rules that will ensure companies using the repatriation tax provision will truly be investing in America’s economy,” Smith said. “I’ll continue to monitor the law as we move forward.”
1.9.2005	U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-WA) spoke on CNN and Fox News today from Jerusalem about his thoughts on the Palestinian elections and their impact on the Middle East peace process. Smith noted that, “The Palestinian people have not had true leadership. They have had a corrupt and ineffective government that they had no faith in.” With the likely victory of Mahmoud Abbas, the Interim Chairman of the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO), as Prime Minister of the Palestinian people, Smith noted that “with a legitimate government where the people of Palestine have a chance to have a voice, to have a say, to have some control over their destiny, that just opens a wide range of options.” More broadly, Smith believes that the elections bring a “great opportunity to bring democracy to the Middle East. Once the Palestinian people feel that freedom of empowerment to elect their own government, they will have a more responsive government and that could change the entire dynamic between the Palestinians and Israel.” Smith stated that the United States needs to “enhance [its] credibility in the Arab world and other Muslim communities as well so that [the United States] can get some credibility back to be an effective partner in the Middle East.” Smith also stated that “If Mahmoud Abbas gives the Palestinian people a better life, more opportunity, more freedom, then they can see democracy makes a concrete difference in their lives.” Smith is the only Democrat that serves on both the House Armed Services and International Relations committees. He represents the 9th District of Washington state and is currently serving in his 5th term in Congress.
1.3.2005	Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement on the death of Rep. Robert Matsui (D-CA): “America has lost a great leader with the death of Rep. Bob Matsui. His story embodies so much of what is great about America: after being imprisoned in a World War 2 internment camp for Japanese-Americans, he worked hard and made his way to Congress so that he could fight for the rights of all Americans. His leadership in rectifying the wrongs of the World War 2 internment camps is but one notable accomplishment in his long career in public service, but it is such an important one that he will undoubtedly be forever remembered for it. His commitment to the Asian-American community was unending and he was determined that every American should be treated equally. I enjoyed working with him on issues ranging from Social Security to trade to taxes. We will miss Congressman Matsui’s counsel, his strong but patient leadership and his clear vision for a strong future for all Americans.”
12.22.2004	Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) made the following statement today concerning the attack on the U.S. Army base in Mosul, Iraq: “First and foremost, my thoughts and prayers are with the family members and friends of those service members who were killed and wounded today in the vicious and cowardly attack on the dining hall at Camp Marez, Iraq. The soldiers stationed at Fort Lewis are always at the forefront of my thoughts and on a day like today, I cannot help but be in awe of the sacrifices that they and their families make each and every day. I express my sorrow to the families of these brave soldiers and extend my heartfelt thanks and gratitude during this trying time.”
11.22.2004	ved transportation routes to newly planned development areas in the City of Tukwila. Intercity Transit Buses (Thurston County) - $1 million This will allow intercity transit to purchase busses to restore service lost as a result of a state-wide elimination of the motor vehicle excise tax in 1999. Pierce Transit Maintenance and Operations Facility - $1 million This earmark will be used to continue the upgrade of Pierce Transit bus facilities and assist in funding the next expansion bus purchases. Burien, SR 509 / SR 518 Interchange/Intersection Redevelopment - $1.5 million Creates interchange improvements and the addition of one travel lane on a portion of the corridor. The following is a list of initiatives in and around the Ninth District that were funded under the Veterans Administration and Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill that was passed as part of a larger Omnibus bill. City of Lakewood Sewer Line - $150,000 The funds will be used for the construction of a sanitary sewer tank system and pump station to serve American Lake Gardens and Tillicum neighborhoods of the City of Lakewood. Burien Highline Senior Center - $200,000 The funds will used to acquire and redevelop the Burien Highline Senior Center. Molten Fuel Cell Demonstration Project - $400,000 The facility will demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of fuel cell technology and its applicability to other wastewater treatment facilities nationwide. This is the first fuel cell plant of this design and the first such plant to rely solely on sludge digester gas generated by a wastewater treatment facility. West Hylebos Wetlands Boardwalk Replacement - $72,750 The boardwalk was constructed in 1991 when the West Hylebos Wetlands State Park was opened. The park is considered one of Seattle’s best urban nature walks.” The boardwalk enables 30,000 to 35,000 visitors each year enjoy one of Puget Sound’s last remaining forested bog wetlands. White Center Community Facility, King County - $72,750 The funds will be used by the Boys and Girls Clubs of King County to fund a portion of the $2.4 million rehabilitation of the Greenbridge Community Center located at the Greenbridge HOPE VI project in White Center. The primary user of the Community Center is the Boys and Girls Club which offers recreation, youth, afterschool, and homework support programs for low income children and teens living at Greenbridge. The following is a list of initiatives in and around the Ninth District that were funded under the Labor and Health and Human Services appropriations bill that was passed as part of a larger Omnibus bill. Marine Science and Technology (MaST) Center, Highline Community College - $320,000 The MaST center will provide opportunities for the community in the areas of environmental health, science, and technology education. The MaST’s programs will increase environmental health awareness, literacy, and promote stewardship of environmental and business related health issues. Training will include topics such as urban water quality, preserving marine dependent habitats, and minimizing ecological impacts of toxins released in the water. The facility will be used to promote science and technology education to K-12, community college students, and community members, while providing training opportunities in science and technology to K-12 teachers. New Futures Children and Family Advocacy Program - $320,000 New Futures serves King County, Washington’s poorest, most isolated children with child and family centers in three of the region’s toughest neighborhoods. The heart of their work is child and family programs. Their after-school program serves children who are at the greatest risk of failing in school. Pre-K programs offer child and family literacy and parenting skills, and youth programs provide a supportive environment where teens develop a positive support network with peers, and build relationships with adults. Life Sciences II-III Building, University of Washington - $1.5 million The Life Sciences II building will house the Department of Bioengineering and will include instructional research laboratories, offices for faculty, students and staff, academic advising and administration. The LS-II facility will support integrated research and education in five bioengineering thrust areas: Distributed Diagnosis and Home Healthcare; Molecular Bioengineering and Nanotechnology; Medical Imaging and Research; Computational Bioengineering; and Engineering Biomaterials. Information Technology Center, Tacoma Community College - $450,000 The principal focus of this project is to provide the community with expanded computer resources. These computers will not only increase general student access but also expand computer literacy. Experience Music Project - $430,000 This funding will be used to create a living archive of interviews with musicians, producers, and key players that have helped shape one of America’s most enduring legacies—American popular music. This archive will be made available for use by scholars, students, educators, journalists, and museum curators, enabling them to contribute to the preservation and enhancement of the rich tradition of music in America and beyond. Center for Learning and Technology, Pacific Lutheran University - $950,000 Pacific Lutheran University is constructing a Center for Learning and Technology that will house its Department of Mathematics, Department of Computer Science and Computer Engineering, Business School, and the Math, Engineering and Science Achievement (MESA) Program, which has a proven track record of success in starting underrepresented minority and female public school students in grades K-12 on the path to college. Center for Pediatric Bioethics, Children’s Hospital and Regional Medical Center in Seattle, WA - $340,000 This funding will support the expansion of research into critical areas of children’s health nationwide while promoting the highest standards of medical ethics and protections for patient’s rights in pediatric research. The following is a list of initiatives in and around the Ninth District that were funded under the Energy and Water appropriations bill that was passed as part of a larger Omnibus bill. Green/Duwamish Ecosystem Restoration - $1.25 million Congress authorized the Green/Duwamish Ecosystem Restoration Project for construction in the Water Resources Development Act of 2000. The majority of the identified restoration sites have been identified and the local governments have committed the funds necessary to move forward. Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration - $500,000 Funding will allow the Corps to continue a habitat restoration program throughout the Puget Sound basin that was authorized by Congress in the Water Resources Development Act of 2000. Seahurst Park Seawall Removal and Beach Restoration - $150,000 The existing seawall has eroded the beach and damaged the fish habitat during the past thirty years. Puget Sound Nearshore Marine Habitat Restoration - $525,000 This is a habitat restoration project in the nearshore, estuary and marine areas of Puget Sound, a vital element of salmon recovery in the basin.
11.22.2004	Congressman Adam Smith (D-Tacoma) made the following statement regarding the failure of the Republican Congress to enact the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. “This past weekend, the Republican House leadership had the opportunity to pass bipartisan intelligence reform legislation that would have made the American people safer. Instead, petty partisan politics interfered and did not allow this bill to proceed. Back in September I called for the implementation of the recommendations of the 9/11 commission. I even cosponsored a bill that would have created a strong National Intelligence Director with real budget authority, improved Congressional oversight of the Intelligence community among other things. Republicans control the House, the Senate and the White House and the blame for this failure rests on their shoulders. This legislation is too important to be used as a partisan football. We must strengthen our intelligence capabilities and refocus our efforts on defeating international terrorist organizations. This bill provided legislation that is critical to the War on Terror and for strengthening America’s security.”
11.18.2004	Congressman Adam Smith made the following statement today regarding raising the Federal Debt Limit: “Today the House Republican leadership is bringing S. 2986 to the House floor for a vote – this measure increases the limit on the federal debt by $800 billion to $8.18 trillion. I will vote against this troubling bill. Their lack of fiscal discipline has forced the Republican Leadership to pass three separate increases to the debt limit in the last three years including the 2003 increase of $984 billion, the largest increase in history. Since 2002 Congress has increased the debt limit over two trillion dollars. The Republicans’ irresponsible policies have left them no choice but to raise the limit on the amount of debt America can incur. But there is a choice in how it is raised. We can continue to pass ineffective legislation that would simply raise the debt limit or we can implement true economic reform by implementing the tried and true ‘pay-as-you-go’ (PAYGO) policies which were so effective in the 1990s and which produced the record budget surpluses that the Bush Administration inherited. Since 2001 the Republican held White House, Senate, and House has turned a $5.6 trillion surplus into a $ 3.5 trillion deficit with record spending that includes over $ 2 trillion in tax cuts. We need to be fiscally responsible with any spending during this time of economic recovery. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) the debt will continue to increase and is estimated to reach over $ 13 trillion by 2014 if Congress does not change its budget policy. If the Republican leadership chooses to go forward with the President’s proposed spending and tax cut policies then it could push the debt limit to $ 14.5 trillion, nearly double the current limit, by 2014. This is not only irresponsible, but it is immoral and will hinder our country’s abilities in the future to meet critical needs for our nation as a whole, as well as risking the future for our children and grandchildren. The fight for the future starts now and Congress must make tough decisions in order to provide a more secure and brighter tomorrow for all Americans."
10.8.2004	As our nation struggles to jumpstart the economy and address the outsourcing of U.S. jobs, 15 members of the House New Democrat Coalition have introduced legislation to help bolster U.S. competitiveness. Last night the group introduced H.R. 5254, the Up-Skilling Tax Credit Act, to encourage employers to invest in their employees and H.R. 5255, a bill to establish a competitive grant program to promote further education and job training opportunities in the fields of math, science, engineering and technology. Since August 2003, nearly 90 percent of the newly created U.S. jobs are in the lower paying service sector industry. To promote the creation and retention of jobs in high tech, high wage and high growth industries, we must ensure that America’s workers have skills and training necessary to succeed in the jobs of the 21st Century. H.R. 5254, the Up-Skilling Tax Credit Act, will promote a more highly skilled and productive workforce by giving an incentive to employers who provide valuable lifetime learning opportunities for their employees. Specifically, the bill would: - Allow employers to use 20 percent of the costs of providing technical training to their employees as a credit against their income tax expenses. - Eligible employers could receive a credit of up to $1,000 per employee per year over the next 5 years. - Eligible training courses must lead to an industry-recognized license or certificate. H.R. 5255 would create a competitive grant program through the National Science Foundation for institutes of higher education working to implement innovative programs to encourage students to study and pursue careers in the high demand fields of math, science, engineering and technology. Funding may be used for creating interdisciplinary programs in these fields or for research equipment, facilities construction, repair and upgrades, textbooks, and other purposes. Under this legislation, schools will: - Provide financial incentives (such as scholarships and stipends) to students entering and persisting in the higher education study of math, science, engineering and technology - Expose students to different industries through internships, fellowships, part-time work and mentors to make students more aware of opportunities in these fields. - Aim to increase the number of traditionally underrepresented students in science, math, engineering and technology. “We may not be able to anticipate the next bend in the economic road, but one thing stays constant - education opens doors,” said NDC co-chair Jim Davis (D-FL). “The New Democrat Coalition recognizes that by improving access to education and on-the-job training, we can help America’s workers move up the career ladder and prevent unemployment before it occurs.” NDC Co-Chair Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) said, “we should increase investment in research and development, improve math and science education in K-12, enhance training and professional development for workers, open markets for American goods and renew the government’s focus on promoting innovation. By doing so, we can make sure that our economy remains the most vibrant and competitive one in the world.” “Unfortunately, the United States is currently falling behind other countries in the number and quality of math, science, and engineering graduates,” said NDC co-chair Ron Kind (D-WI). “H.R. 5255 is meant to provide some of the crucial assistance needed to reverse this trend, and the Up-Skilling Tax Credit Act will help workers in these fields keep their skills up-to-date.”
