02.12.2019	Rock Rapids, IA to host the second of King’s 39 scheduled town halls Washington DC- Congressman Steve King announces today that he will be holding a Town Hall meeting on Monday, February 18th in Lyon County, Iowa. The event is open to the public and to the media. The Town Hall will be held from 12:00-1:00 PM Central at the Forster Community Center, 404 Main Street, Rock Rapids, IA. This town hall will be the second of the 39 scheduled town halls King will be holding this year. MEDIA NOTE: It is requested that media planning to attend the event contact John Kennedy (info above) to RSVP. There will be no press availability prior to, or following, the event. Lyon County Town Hall Who: Congressman Steve King What: Public Town Hall When: 12:00 – 1:00 PM CT on Monday, February 18, 2019 Where: Forster Community Center, 404 Main Street, Rock Rapids, IA. ###
02.06.2019	Lewis & Clark Regional Water System, Iowa Rural Water Association meet with King to discuss legislative priorities Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following photos and statement after a series of meetings he held in his Washington, D.C. office today with representatives of the Lewis & Clark Regional Water System and the Iowa Rural Water Association. Today’s meetings were designed to focus on each organization’s federal legislative priorities for this session of Congress. A key topic of discussion in the meetings involved pursuing policies that will both increase access to water in Rural Iowa while also safeguarding the water’s overall quality. “Our district includes many rural communities that have an increasing need for high quality water, and ensuring access to this water in Iowa’s rural areas is a top priority for me,” said King. “I recently helped secure an increase in 2018-19 funding for the Lewis & Clark Regional Water System, and I will continue to work to ensure federal funds are available that will allow Lewis & Clark to continue to expand its delivery capacity. Further, because water quality is important, I agree with the Iowa Rural Water Association on the need for more USDA/EPA inspectors who can test the water as it is drawn from the wells.” King meets with Lewis & Clark Regional Water System: Congressman Steve King and Sioux Center’s Murray Hulstein, Vice Chairman of the Lewis & Clark Regional Water System. King meets with Iowa Rural Water Association: Congressman Steve King and members of the Iowa Rural Water Association discuss rural water quality issues. ###
01.29.2019	Iowa Bankers, Iowa Postmasters, Iowa School Boards, Ames Director of Finance, National Federation of the Blind of Iowa lead agenda Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following photos highlighting a series of meetings he held in his Washington, D.C. office today with constituents from Iowa. One positive aspect of his new schedule in the 116th Congress is that it has freed Congressman King from attending hearings organized and run by liberal Speaker Pelosi’s handpicked House Democrats. Many of these upcoming hearings will be designed to do little more than promote the Democrat’s unpopular “Never Trump” agenda. The Congressman’s ability to personally meet with, hear directly from, and quickly intervene on behalf of Iowans who have made the trip to Washington D.C. to discuss their important concerns has been strengthened by recent events. Today, Congressman King was able to meet personally with individuals representing the Iowa Bankers Association, the Iowa Postmasters, the Iowa Association of School Boards, and Duane Pitcher, Director of Finance for the City of Ames during time that would previously have been unavailable due to today’s scheduled committee activity. King meets with Iowa Bankers Association: Congressman Steve King and Iowa Bankers Association representatives meet to discuss tax and regulatory issues affecting the industry. King meets with Iowa Postmasters: Congressman Steve King and Iowa Postmasters take a photo in front of a corn stalk in the Congressman’s office. King meets with Iowa Association of School Boards: Congressman Steve King meets with Iowa Association of School Board members to discuss reauthorizing the Individuals with Disabilities Act. King meets with Duane Pitcher, Director of Finance for the City of Ames: Congressman Steve King met today with Duane Pitcher, Director of Finance for the City of Ames. King meets with National Federation of the Blind of Iowa: Congressman Steve King meets with representatives of the National Federation of the Blind of Iowa. ###
01.23.2019	Please Note: House floor schedule changes will require the rescheduling of an event originally planned for 1/24 Washington DC- Congressman Steve King announces today that he will be holding a Town Hall meeting on Saturday, January 26 in O’Brien County, Iowa. The event is open to the public and to the media. The Town Hall will be held from 9:00-10:00 AM Central at the Primghar Community Building, 215 1st Street SE, Primghar, IA. Due to recently announced changes in the House of Representative’s voting schedule, the public is notified that an event previously proposed for Thursday, January 24, is being rescheduled. Details regarding the rescheduled event will be released when they become available. MEDIA NOTE: Due to heavy interest, it is requested that media planning to attend the event contact John Kennedy (info above) to RSVP. There will be no press availability prior to, or following, the event. O’Brien County Town Hall Who: Congressman Steve King What: Public Town Hall When: 9:00AM – 10:00AM CT on Saturday, January 26, 2019 Where: Primghar Community Building, 215 1st Street SE, Primghar, IA ###
01.16.2019	Congressman Steve King releases this statement following remarks made by FOX News senior political analyst Brit Hume which condemn a New York Times article, published yesterday, as being “completely bogus.” Interestingly, the New York Times writer responsible for the “completely bogus” article slammed by Hume is the same writer of an earlier Times article that GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy relied upon to railroad King for a quote King has consistently disputed. “Brit Hume, a respected journalist who admittedly is no fan of mine, has it right: the New York Times is publishing ‘completely bogus’ hit pieces about me,” said King. “Republicans should note that the ‘completely bogus’ article identified by Hume is written by the same writer, in the same paper, on the same general topic as an earlier Times piece relied upon by Kevin McCarthy, our politically correct Minority Leader, to railroad me. Clearly, this ‘completely bogus’ second article should call the Times’ earlier article into question. It should also make Republicans question whether our politically correct leadership intends to stand with other conservatives, including President Trump, when the liberal New York Times publishes ‘completely bogus’ stories about them.” Excerpt of Hume’s remarks yesterday: “And that New York Times piece was completely bogus, I mean those comments, look I don’t agree with them and I’m no fan of Steve King. Look, I’m sorry, they did not amount to racism.” King is providing the following link to a piece appearing in the Daily Caller today entitled “Brit Hume Criticizes ‘Completely Bogus’ NYT Report on Steve King, Critiques Media for ‘Weaponizing’ Racist Charge” for those interested in further considering Mr. Hume’s remarks. ###
01.15.2019	Congressman Steve King releases the following video of remarks he delivered on the floor of the House of Representatives this afternoon. In his remarks, King encouraged his colleagues to join in support of a resolution (H. Res. 41) introduced by Rep. Jim Clyburn (D-SC) which places the House of Representatives on record as rejecting “White nationalism and White supremacy as hateful expressions of intolerance that are contradictory to the values that define the people of the United States.” In fact, King suggested that the Clyburn Resolution could be strengthened if it included stronger language King has already placed in the Congressional Record, language which explicitly condemns “anyone that supports this evil and bigoted ideology which saw in its ultimate expression the systematic murder of 6 million innocent Jewish lives.” H.Res. 41 passed 424-1, with Congressman King voting in favor of the resolution. I want to ask my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, let’s vote for this resolution. I’m putting up a YES on the board here because what you see here is right, and true, and just.” To watch/listen to Congressman King’s remarks, click here. King’s floor statement also directly address the “13 words” appearing in a recent New York Times story which have been assigned a meaning that King clearly could not have intended as “that ideology never shows up in my head, so I don’t know how it could possibly come out of my mouth.” ###
01.14.2019	“Leader McCarthy’s decision to remove me from committees is a political decision that ignores the truth. The truth is as follows: One of my quotes in a New York Times story has been completely mischaracterized. Here’s the context I believe accurately reflects my statement. In a 56 minute interview, we discussed the changing use of language in political discourse. We discussed the worn out label “racist” and my observation that other slanderous labels have been increasingly assigned to Conservatives by the Left, who injected into our current political dialog such terms as Nazi, Fascist, ‘White Nationalist, White Supremacist,— Western Civilization, how did THAT language become offensive? Why did I sit in classes teaching me about the merits of our history and our civilization?’...just to watch Western Civilization become a derogatory term in political discourse today. Clearly, I was only referencing Western Civilization classes. No one ever sat in a class listening to the merits of white nationalism and white supremacy. When I used the word ‘THAT’ it was in reference ONLY to Western Civilization and NOT to any previously stated evil ideology ALL of which I have denounced. My record as a vocal advocate for Western Civilization is nearly as full as my record in defense of Freedom of Speech. Ultimately, I told him ‘You have to do what you have to do and I will do what I have to do.’ I will continue to point out the truth and work with all the vigor that I have to represent 4th District Iowans for at least the next two years.” ###
01.11.2019	Congressman Steve King releases the following video of remarks he delivered on the House floor today addressing recent comments appearing in The New York Times. To watch Congressman King’s speech click the image, or click here. Some excerpts: "One phrase in that long article has created an unnecessary controversy. That was my mistake, Mr. Speaker. And so I want to start this out with some context of that discussion. And that is this: If you can control the language, you can control the policy. Labels have been hurled in this country at people like we have never seen in this history of America." . . . "One of my most strongly held beliefs is that we are all created in God's image, and that human life is sacred in all of its forms. And all of my life's work, all of my public record, all of my bills, all of my votes, and all of my activities support that statement: that human life is sacred in all of its forms, and we are created in God's image." Following King's remarks, Representative Louie Gohmert of Texas prefaced his own special order speech with a statement addressing the matter. Gohmert’s remarks are included in the video above, and they read as follows: "I thank my friend from Iowa. I have traveled with him, been to different parts of the country and different parts of the world with my friend, Mr. King from Iowa. I've seen him deal with different races and nationalities around the world, and I've had a lot of private conversations. I've never seen anything that indicated anything but condemnation for white supremacists. But he is a proud American. He's an American, he's very proud of it, and he is proud to carry the moniker of being an American in any situation, and I would contend that's not a bad thing." ###
01.11.2019	King, Grassley, Ernst to salute Iowa’s pro-life marchers on January 18 in Washington, D.C. Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King is extending an invitation to Iowans who are participating in this year’s March for Life event to attend a reception he is sponsoring with Senator Chuck Grassley and Senator Joni Ernst. The reception for Iowa’s March for Life attendees is being held in conjunction with this important pro-life event, and will begin at 9:00 AM on Friday, Jan. 18, in the Kennedy Caucus Room (Room 325) of the Russell Senate Office Building. To RSVP for the event, please contact meetsteve@mail.house.gov. “I am always inspired by the large number of people who travel from Iowa to Washington, D.C. to march in front of the Supreme Court on behalf of the unborn,” said King. “This reception gives me, Senator Grassley, and Senator Ernst the opportunity to join together to recognize and thank you for the hard work you do promoting respect for the sanctity of human life. I know Iowa will be well represented at the 46th Annual March for Life, and I want you to know how much your important participation in the event does to help advance the effort to overturn Roe v. Wade.” March for Life Reception for Iowans Friday, January 18, 2019 9:00 AM ET Russell Senate Office Building Room 325 Washington, D.C. 20002 Congressman King would also like to take this opportunity to remind constituents who are visiting Washington D.C. that his office can help arrange tours of many sites of historic interest, including the U.S. Capitol building. If you are interested in receiving a tour, please click here and fill out a tour request form. ###
01.10.2019	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following statement regarding a story appearing in today’s edition of The New York Times. “Today, the New York Times is suggesting that I am an advocate for white nationalism and white supremacy. I want to make one thing abundantly clear; I reject those labels and the evil ideology that they define. Further, I condemn anyone that supports this evil and bigoted ideology which saw in its ultimate expression the systematic murder of 6 million innocent Jewish lives. It’s true that like the Founding Fathers I am an advocate for Western Civilization’s values, and that I profoundly believe that America is the greatest tangible expression of these ideals the World has ever seen. Under any fair political definition, I am simply a Nationalist. America’s values are expressed in our founding documents, they are attainable by everyone and we take pride that people of all races, religions, and creeds from around the globe aspire to achieve them. I am dedicated to keeping America this way. This conviction does not make me a white nationalist or a white supremacist. Once again, I reject those labels and the ideology that they define. As I told the New York Times, ‘it’s not about race; it’s never been about race.’ One of my most strongly held beliefs is that we are all created in God’s image and that human life is sacred in all its forms.” ###
01.08.2019	Bipartisan legislation promotes free trade of Ag products between the States Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following statement after re-introducing HR 272, the Protect Interstate Commerce Act of 2019 (PICA). King’s legislation was included in the House-passed version of the recently enacted Farm Bill, and has passed the House on two separate occasions. PICA seeks to prevent states from unconstitutionally engaging in the regulation of agricultural products lawfully produced or manufactured in other states. House Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson, a Democrat serving Minnesota’s 7th Congressional District, is an original cosponsor of King’s bipartisan PICA legislation. “PICA ends California’s unconstitutional attempt to regulate agricultural goods produced lawfully in the other 49 states,” said King. “Since the Supreme Court has declined to quickly hear state-backed challenges to unconstitutional laws like California’s Proposition 12, it is important that Congress address this issue with urgency by passing PICA and providing our producers with certainty that their goods will continue to be sold in the nation’s largest marketplace. Neither Iowa’s producers, nor the producers in the 48 other states that face the prospect of a California-sales ban, should be held hostage to the demands of California’s Vegan Lobby and California’s overreaching regulatory agencies.” In November, voters in California adopted a ballot initiative called Proposition 12 that closes California’s markets to eggs, pork, and veal produced in states that have not adopted California’s strict, costly, and burdensome regulations. To make matters worse, Proposition 12 enforces a sales ban even if the agricultural goods produced in another state were lawfully produced in compliance with applicable USDA standards, and/or applicable health, safety, and welfare standards of the state in which the producers live and work. Congressman King has long maintained that if it’s “good enough for the USDA, it’s good enough for the USA and for the rest of the world.” California’s attempt to regulate agriculture production in other states has earned vocal opposition from ag groups such as the National Association of Egg Farmers, the Association of California Egg Farmers, the National Pork Producers Council, and the California Pork Producers Association. ###
01.07.2019	Congressman King to hold public Town Hall meetings in all 39 counties within the 4th District Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King sends this advisory inviting members of the public and the media to “Save the Date!” for King’s upcoming town hall meetings with constituents in all 39 of the 4th District’s counties. While the locations and times for King’s town hall meetings have not yet been finalized, the following dates currently appear on Congressman King’s schedule for town hall meetings that will be open to the public to attend. As more details about King’s upcoming town hall schedule become confirmed, they will be distributed via press releases that can be accessed on King’s official Congressional website: https://steveking.house.gov/media-center/press-releases. “I am looking forward to hosting a town-hall in all 39 counties this year,” said King. “Town hall meetings are an opportunity for members of the public to express their concerns to me, and for me to deliver my constituents an overview of the work I am doing in Washington on their behalf. During my time in Congress, I have visited all 382 towns in the 4th District, and I look forward to holding a town hall meeting in all 39 of our District’s counties this year. “Save the Date!” for Congressman King’s 2019 Town Hall Meetings with Constituents 1. Thursday, January 24 2. Saturday, January 26 3. Monday, February 18 4. Saturday, February 23 5. Friday, March 1 6. Saturday, March 16 7. Tuesday, March 19 8. Thursday, March 21 9. Saturday, April 6 10. Monday, April 15 11. Wednesday, April 17 12. Tuesday, April 23 13. Thursday, April 25 14. Saturday, May 11 15. Tuesday, May 28 16. Friday, May 31 17. Saturday, June 15 18. Friday, June 28 19. Tuesday, July 2 20. Saturday, July 20 21. Monday, August 12 22. Wednesday, August 14 23. Friday, August 17 24. Tuesday, August 20 25. Thursday, August 22 26. Saturday, August 24 27. Tuesday, August 27 28. Thursday, August 29 29. Wednesday, September 4 30. Friday, September 6 31. Saturday, September 14 32. Wednesday, October 2 33. Friday, October 4 34. Tuesday, October 8 35. Saturday, October 26 36. Monday, November 4 37. Friday, November 8 38. Monday, November 25 39. Saturday, December 14 ###
12.12.2018	Cites Iowa State’s “Genome to Phenome” language; Full Funding for Trade Programs; FMD Vaccine Bank as key provisions in bill. Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, releases this video of remarks he delivered on the House floor this afternoon in support of the Farm Bill conference report. During his remarks, King specifically mentioned several of the important provisions he worked to insert into the legislation that will be of great benefit to producers in the 4th District. “This Farm Bill provides predictability. We owe that to our producers.” (Full remarks: here). Among the items King's mentioned in his remarks as "good things" are the following items he worked to get included in the Farm Bill: 1) ARC Payments are now identified with the physical location of the farm; 2) $255,000,000 has been included for the Market Access Program and for Foreign Market Development, important programs which promote international trade; 3) The Farm Bill establishes a vaccine bank for Foot and Mouth Disease, and allows for the development and storage of GMO vaccines in the United States; 4) The Farm Bill increases the loan guarantee limits for young producers (Beginning Farmers) by substantial amounts; 5) The Farm Bill includes important "Genome to Phenome" research language which was a priority for Iowa State University. The House of Representatives is scheduled to vote on the Farm Bill Conference Report today. ###
12.12.2018	Legislation contains important King initiatives Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, releases this statement following House passage of the conference report accompanying H.R. 2, the Farm Bill. King voted in favor of the legislation, and it contains several important agriculture and biofuel initiatives successfully championed by King. The Farm Bill passed the House on a vote of 369-47, with King voting in favor of passage. The legislation will now be sent to President Trump for his signature. “Iowa’s farmers want a Farm Bill that provides predictability, while also enhancing our ability to trade in foreign markets, and this bill accomplishes both of these goals,” said King. “I am pleased that the final bill contains important provisions that I requested, including the ‘Genome to Phenome’ language that was a priority for Iowa State, vaccine bank language promoting the development and storage of GMO vaccines in the United States to deal with sudden outbreaks, and full funding for the Market Access Program which promotes foreign trade of our agricultural goods. This Farm Bill is a victory for our producers, it meets Rural America’s immediate need for greater trade, and it’s shameful that partisan politics prevented it from passing sooner.” Congressman King was successful in getting the final version of the Farm Bill to include many of his proposals. Among the major King initiatives in the Farm Bill conference report are: Title 1 ARC payments for farmers will now be based on the physical location of the farm, a major win for 4th District farmers; CRP payments have been brought under control (now 90% for continuous contracts and 85% for general contracts). Reforming CRP payments is the number one change sought by Congressman King’s Ag Leadership Committees; King-backed “Genome to Phenome” language will allow Iowa State to further its research into the impact on crops of weather, environmental, and production systems; Vaccine bank legislative language now allows for the production and storage of GMO vaccines in the United States which will result in a quicker and more effective national response to curtail emergency outbreaks of diseases like FMD. King raised this issue with Secretary Perdue during an Agriculture Committee hearing on February 2; The Energy Title was preserved as a separate title in the Farm Bill, a designation King insisted upon in order to protect mandatory funding for important biofuel programs; Full Funding for the Market Access Program and the Foreign Market Development Program requested by King to enhance the ability of Iowa’s producers to engage in international trade; Increased funding for “Beginning Farmer” loans by $6 billion, while also increasing loan amounts available under the program. The new loan limits are: Guaranteed Loan Limits $1,750,000 (up from $1,400,000), Direct Operating Loan Limits are now $400,000 (up from $300,000) and Direct farm Ownership Loan Limits are now $600,000 (up from $300,000); Increased the rural minimum standard for broadband internet service which means that rural areas, like Iowa’s 4th Congressional District, will now be provided with greater connectivity speed
12.11.2018	Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, releases this video of his questioning of Google CEO, Sundar Pichai, during today’s hearing entitled "Transparency and Accountability: Examining Google and its Data Collection, Use, and Filtering Practices." In his questioning, King was particularly interested in discussing Google’s lack of transparency concerning both the composition of its 1,000 member strong “search team” and also the search algorithms they work on. King made it clear to Google today: if the company continues to cloak its actions and its algorithms in a veil of secrecy to protect manipulating search results to reflect their political biases, they may very well find themselves moving on a path that leads to a “Teddy Roosevelt” style break-up. To watch Congressman King’s questioning of Mr. Pichai click the image or here. An excerpt from Congressman King's statement: "If we don't know who the 1,000 are, and we can’t look at their social media, and we can't see the algorithms to understand the results of the work they are doing behind closed doors, and yet the public believes it's an open forum with a balanced exchange and open access to information when, of course, it’s not... We either need to know who they are and look at their social media, and if that doesn't stop this problem than the next step is to publish the algorithms, and if that doesn't happen, then the next step on the line is Section 230, the amendments to Section 230. And the step on the line beyond that is the Teddy Roosevelt step. . . I don't want to regulate anything, but neither do I want to see a society so polarized and so divided that the will of the American people can't be expressed at the ballot box." Background: The "Teddy Roosevelt" step is a shorthand reference to anti-monopoly Trust Busting, a hallmark of that President's administration. Congressman King has previously suggested that Social Media Companies engaged in the censorship of conservative views could find themselves subject to regulation as if they were public utilities.
11.28.2018	Offers the “Kitty Rehberg Bill” as an Amendment to House Republicans Year-End Tax Package Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following video of his effort to amend the year-end tax package introduced by House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady. King appeared before the House Rules Committee today in an attempt to get two amendments made in order for consideration on the House floor. To watch Congressman King introduce his amendments, click on the image or click here The first King Amendment (King IA 269) seeks to re-establish the 15% tax rate for those with adjusted gross incomes of up to $50,000. The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act placed many small farms in a 21% tax bracket, a change which threatens their financial viability. King’s amendment is named in honor of former Iowa State Senator Kitty Rehberg, a farmer who brought this problem with the structure of the current tax law to King’s attention. The second King Amendment (King IA 268) attempts to add King’s “New IDEA” legislation to the tax package. New IDEA amends the Internal Revenue Code to make it unlawful for employers to deduct wages and benefits paid to and on behalf of an illegal alien. According to the Center for Immigration Studies, enactment of King’s “New IDEA” amendment would result in $254 Billion in increased federal revenue over the next 10 years. ###
10.30.2018	“I am very happy that my legislation will soon be adopted by the White House as national policy.” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, releases the following statement in the wake of news reports that President Trump intends to restore the plain meaning of the 14th Amendment by ending the mistaken practice of granting American citizenship at birth to the children of illegal aliens. King is the recognized leader in Congress on this effort, and is the lead author of HR 140, a bill ending “birthright citizenship’ that he has introduced in each Congress since 2011. “I am delighted to learn that President Trump intends to end automatic citizenship at birth for the children of illegal aliens whose parents have no ties, and owe no allegiance, to the United States,” said King. “Granting ‘birthright citizenship’ is a historical mistake which attempts to erase the phrase ‘and subject to the jurisdiction thereof’ out of the 14th Amendment in defiance of what the framers of that amendment were attempting to achieve. Ending ‘birthright citizenship’ for illegal aliens will decimate the disgusting ‘birth tourism’ industry, and it will ensure that illegal aliens cannot use ‘anchor babies’ in order to take advantage of our overly generous welfare system. I commend the President for his actions, and I am very happy that my legislation will soon be adopted by the White House as national policy.” The operative text of the 14th Amendment reads as follows: “All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside. No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.” Congressman King has written extensively on the legal scholarship behind his effort to restore the original meaning of the 14th Amendment. Those wishing additional background information are encouraged to read this King op-ed: Ending Birthright Citizenship Does Not Require A Constitutional Amendment. An excerpt: “By its own terms, the language in the amendment precludes the notion of universal automatic birthright citizenship. It would have been quite simple for the language to exclude ‘and subject to the jurisdiction thereof’ to accomplish the goal of bestowing citizenship on any child born in the United States no matter the status of their parents. The 14th Amendment’s addition of a jurisdictional requirement to the territorial requirement, however, denies any interpretation that birth alone grants citizenship. Counter to this logic, proponents of universal automatic birthright citizenship claim that those born in the United States necessarily are subject to the jurisdiction of the country. However, this renders the language ‘subject to the jurisdiction thereof’ superfluous. Why would the drafters of the 14th Amendment include this qualifier at all if it was met simply by virtue of being born in the United States? The legislative history outlined below will make clear that the addition of ‘subject to the jurisdiction thereof’ was designed specifically to make sure the people granted citizenship did not have divided political loyalties.” ###
10.09.2018	President heading to Iowa tonight to announce year-round sales of E15 Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, released the following photo and statement regarding today’s expected announcement that President Trump will instruct the Environmental Protection Agency to allow the year round sale of E15. The President is expected to publicly announce his decision during an appearance tonight in Council Bluffs, Iowa. King has been invited to attend the President’s appearance in Iowa. Congressman Steve King arrives at the White House to meet with President Trump on October 2. King encouraged the President to promote the sale of year-round E15 during their meeting “Last week, I met in the Oval Office to encourage President Trump to promote the increased use of biofuels like ethanol,” said King. “During our seventy-five minute meeting, I specifically urged the President to instruct the EPA to allow the year-round sale of E15, and I encouraged him to adopt policies that will open the door for greater use of even higher ethanol blends beyond E15. One week after our meeting, the President is traveling to Iowa to announce that his administration will allow the year-round sale of E15. I am confident that when our producers learn of this decision, they will understand that their Congressman and their President have their backs on biofuels, and they will be as happy as I am with the President’s pro-ethanol actions today.” Related: 10-2-18: King, Trump Hold Oval Office Meeting on China IP Theft, Trade, Ethanol 9-18-18: King Earns “2018 Fueling Growth Award” for Ethanol Work 4-17-18: King Tells Iowa RFA: “I Want Ethanol sold TO, THROUGH, and BEYOND the E15 Blend.” ###
10.02.2018	President Trump Supports Adding King’s Legislative Priorities to the #MAGA Agenda Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, released the following photo and statement following his meeting this afternoon with President Trump in the White House’s Oval Office. President Trump requested the meeting with Congressman King so that he could discuss adding elements of King’s legislative agenda to the President’s ongoing efforts to Make America Great Again (MAGA). Congressman Steve King arrives at the White House to meet with President Trump this afternoon. “The President’s agenda is being enacted, the economy is booming, and our country is winning again,” said King. “He deserves a great deal of credit for striking a new trade deal with Canada and Mexico (USMCA) that will greatly improve market access for America’s products. This achievement will be particularly welcomed by our farmers whose lifeblood is international trade.” “President Trump and I share a common interest in cracking down on Chinese IP theft, and in ending illegal immigration to our country. He believes, as do I, that several of my bills are a natural fit for his #MakeAmericaGreatAgain agenda, and we discussed things we could do together to get them enacted into law. President Trump was very gracious to invite me to the White House, and he was very generous with his time. I am pleased to report that the President has expressed a desire to advance specific items I have introduced, and I am hopeful that China will soon be paying a heavy price for stealing our intellectual property.” Congressman King and President Trump were originally scheduled to meet in the White House for thirty minutes, but the positive exchange between the two men stretched to seventy-five minutes. During this time, the President expressed support for King’s bill cracking down on Chinese intellectual property theft (HR 1048) and King’s E-bonding legislation penalizing immigrants who overstay their visa (HR 6089). The two men also discussed the importance of opening foreign markets to increased exports of America’s agricultural goods, the need for year round E-15 sales, King’s efforts to bring the pro-life “Heartbeat Protection Act” (HR 490) to a vote in this session of Congress, and King’s legislation eliminating tax deductions for businesses who employ illegal aliens (HR 176). Background: 1/3/17- King Introduces Four Immigration Bills, Including Sarah’s Law (Includes HR 176, New IDEA) 2/14/17- King Re-Introduces Bill to Protect Holders of US Intellectual Property Rights from China (HR 1048) 11/1/17- Protecting the Unborn Reaffirms Jefferson’s Truths (King OP-ED, HR 490) 5/10/18- King Introduces Immigration Bonding Bill to Target Alien Visa Overstays (HR 6089) ###
10.01.2018	King’s comments on new US/Mexico/Canada trade deal follow Des Moines ceremony in which Taiwan agrees to purchase 37% more soybeans Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, released the following photos and statement regarding Taiwan’s agreement to increase soybean purchases by 37% on the same day that President Trump announced finalizing negotiations on an improved trade deal between the United States, Canada, and Mexico. (From Left) Lieutenant Governor Adam Gregg, Yau-Kuen Hung, Chairman, Taiwan Vegetable Oil Manufacturers Association, Congressman Steve King, and Eric Huang, Director General of the Taipei Economic & Cultural Office participate in today’s soybean purchase signing ceremony. “Today in Des Moines, the government of Taiwan confirmed its intent to increase imports of American soybeans by 37%, and I am pleased that my efforts to encourage them to do so have paid off,” said King. “As we were signing the paperwork in Des Moines with Taiwan’s representatives, President Trump announced that his efforts to negotiate an improved trade deal between the United States, Canada, and Mexico, known as the USMCA agreement, had similarly succeeded. With harvest occurring, these two announcements could not have come at a better time for American agriculture. I believe our successful ongoing efforts to increase agricultural trade with Taiwan, Canada, and Mexico easily falls within the definition of #Winning.” Under the revised deal with Taiwan, the U.S. share of soybeans purchased by Taiwan will increase to between 80-90% of total Taiwanese purchases. It was also announced that the new agreement with Taiwan will result in 75% of Taiwan’s total soybean purchases coming from Iowa. Related: 9/28/18: “Soybean Steve” King Brings Taiwan Trade Partners to Iowa Farms 9/26/18: King Does It Again! Taiwan Agrees to 30% Increase in U.S. Soybean Purchases 9/15/17: King Gives “Thumbs Up!” to $2.8 Billion Agriculture Deal with Taiwan 9/13/17: King Persuades Taiwan to Buy $2.8 Billion of Corn, Soybeans, Wheat ###
09.28.2018	Tour allows King to show off Iowa agriculture to Taiwanese Purchasers Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a Member of the House Agriculture Committee, announces that he will be hosting a tour of Iowa farms for members of a Taiwanese agricultural procurement delegation on Sunday, September 30. The agriculture tour comes on the heels of an announcement that Taiwan will increase their purchase of American soybeans by 30%. Last September, following a series of meetings King held in Taiwan with Taiwanese government officials (Related: King Persuades Taiwan to Buy $2.8 Billion of Corn, Soybeans, Wheat), Taiwan committed to purchasing $2.8 billion of American grains. The Taiwanese announced that they planned to increase their previous purchase order of American grown soybeans, a component of last September’s agreement, by 30%. The Taiwanese have now pledged to purchase $1.56 billion of soybeans. Congressman Steve King speaks at the signing ceremony in which Taiwan announced it would increase soybean purchases by 30% “It is a privilege to be able to bring the Taiwanese delegation to Iowa so that they can see our first rate agriculture in the full flow of harvest,” said King. “I have been so aggressive in encouraging the Taiwanese to import increasing amounts of our goods that some have even taken to calling me ‘Soybean Steve.’ I have little doubt that the Taiwanese procurement officials on this tour will be even more excited about increasing future purchase of our agricultural commodities after they get a chance to personally see what we have to offer them.” King will be escorting the Taiwanese trade delegation to farms located in Nevada, Iowa and Hinton, Iowa. Members of the Taiwanese delegation are expected to include: Mr. Yau-Kuen Hung Chairman, Taiwan Vegetable Oil Manufacturers Association Mr Jason Cheng-Ta Tsai Vice President,Taisun Enterprise Co., Ltd Mr. Te-Jung Li Manager, Taihwa Oil Mr. Zih-Ming Jiang Assistant Manager, Great Wall Enterprise Co., Ltd. Mr. Shou-Hao Lee Manager, TTET Union Corporation Mr. Shih-Chia Yeh Section Chief, U.S.& Canada Section, Ministry of Economic Affairs Ms. Pei-Yu Chen Officer, Department of North American Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mr. Eric Huang Director General, Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Chicago Mr. Justin Lee Director, Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Chicago Martin Hou Consul, Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Chicago Background: King Does It Again! Taiwan Agrees to 30% Increase in U.S. Soybean Purchases (September 26, 2018) King Gives “Thumbs Up!” to $2.8 Billion Agriculture Deal with Taiwan (September 15, 2017) King Persuades Taiwan to Buy $2.8 Billion of Corn, Soybeans, Wheat (September 13, 2017) ###
09.27.2018	Congressman Steve King, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice, releases the following photo and video of today’s hearing examining “The State of Intellectual Freedom in America.” Chairman King, a conservative user of Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube, is an acknowledged leader in efforts to prevent Internet social media companies from abusing their platforms to censor conservative political views. In addition to the internet censorship of conservative voices, today’s hearing also examined the risk to academic freedom posed by the “political groupthink” that is increasingly found on the campuses of America’s colleges and universities. Chairman Steve King questions Jim Hoft of Gateway Pundit during Thursday’s hearing. Hoft, who grew up in Iowa, testified that Facebook has eliminated 93% of combined referral traffic to the nation’s top conservative websites. Today’s hearing may be watched in full by clicking the image, or clicking here. “When anyone is silenced, the result is censorship, plain and simple, but it takes a more sinister form, particularly in settings that claim to champion open discourse, when it is performed quietly behind closed doors,” said King. “In many cases, only the person who is censored knows what’s happened, and, even then, the person often doesn’t know how or why it happened. Fortunately, Americans are beginning to recognize this quiet trend in our society in which one group or another systemically silences another’s beliefs with which they disagree.” Witnesses at today’s hearing included: Panel I: • Dr. Mike Adams, Professor, University of North Carolina at Wilmington • Dr. Peter Wood, President, National Association of Scholars • Mr. Mike Simkovic, Professor of Law and Accounting, USC School of Law • Dr. Tim Groseclose, Professor, George Mason University Panel II: • Mr. Jim Hoft, Founder and Editor, The Gateway Pundit • Ms. Adriana Cohen, Syndicated Columnist, Boston Herald Radio Host • Mr. Jeremy Tedesco, Vice President of U.S. Advocacy, Alliance Defending Freedom • Mr. Ari Waldman, Professor of Law, New York Law School • Mr. Harmeet K. Dhillon, Esq., Partner, Dhillon Law Group, Inc. Background: In April, King invited the popular pro-Trump broadcasting duo Diamond and Silk to the Judiciary committee to testify about their claims that Facebook is acting to censor their channel. (Related: Diamond and Silk UNCENSORED: Duo Accepts Steve King’s Invitation to Testify; VIDEO: Diamond and Silk tell King- “The Republicans took up for the little voices.”) In July, during a Judiciary Committee hearing examining the content filtering practices of social media giants, King suggested continued censorship of conservatives by large social media companies may convince Congress to regulate these companies as if they were public utilities. ###
09.26.2018	Taiwan Agricultural Trade Delegation, King sign $1.56 billion “Intent to Purchase” agreements Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, releases this statement and photo following his participation in a signing ceremony committing the nation of Taiwan to increased purchases of American soybeans. Today’s signing ceremony is the latest positive trade development stemming from ongoing trade discussions King has had with the Taiwanese government (Related- King Gives “Thumbs Up!” to $2.8 Billion Agriculture Deal with Taiwan). King has been a strong and consistent advocate for Iowa agriculture, having met personally with Taiwanese officials including former Taiwanese President Ma, current Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-Wen, Minister of Agriculture Tsung-Hsien Lin, President of the Legislature Jia-Chyuan Su, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. David Tawei Lee, Minster of National Defense Admiral Tze-Chun Pu and Minister of Economic Affairs Mei-Hua Wang to encourage Taiwan to purchase more of America’s agricultural goods. Congressman Steve King announces Taiwan’s commitment to increase soybean purchases “Taiwan is an important trading partner, and I am pleased that my ongoing efforts to encourage them to buy more American agricultural goods are continuing to bear fruit,” said King. “Our farmers want to sell their products in international markets, and I have developed the kinds of relationships that are necessary to ensure American producers have an advocate in the room when international leaders are discussing trade in agriculture products. It is important to build on our success trading with Taiwan to expand market access for Iowa’s goods throughout Asia, and I continue to work to do so.” Last September, following a series of meetings King held in Taiwan with government officials, the Taiwanese committed to purchasing $2.8 billion of American grains (corn, soybeans, and wheat). Today, the Taiwanese announced that they planned to increase their previous purchase order of American grown soybeans by 30%, to $1.56 billion. ###
09.26.2018	“Strong Small Business Voting Record” Earns King NFIB’s Top Honor Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Small Business Committee, releases this statement and photo following his designation as a “Guardian of Small Business” by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). The award was presented to King by Juanita Duggan, President and CEO of the NFIB, during an event on Capitol Hill this afternoon. King was named a “Guardian of Small Business” by the NFIB after their independent review of King’s votes in the 115th Congress demonstrated King has compiled a “strong small business voting record.” Congressman Steve King is presented with the NFIB’s “Guardian of Small Business” Award by NFIB President Juanita Duggan “As a member of the Small Business Committee, I understand the important role that small businesses play in keeping our state and our national economies strong,” said King. “This is especially true in Iowa, where small businesses are responsible for one out of every two private sector jobs. Keeping taxes low and the regulatory burden light is a key to ensuring small businesses succeed. I am honored to be recognized by the NFIB as a “Guardian of Small Business” for my work advancing both of these goals.” “The NFIB Guardian of Small Business Award is presented to Members of Congress who truly vote as champions of small business,” said NFIB President and CEO Juanita D. Duggan. “Those who earn this recognition in the House of Representatives have been staunch supporters on the issues that are crucial to the success of small business, like tax cuts, regulatory reform, and lower healthcare costs.” Among the votes selected for recognition by the NFIB were Congressman King’s votes in favor of HR 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Related- King: “4.1% GDP is proof that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is working.”), King’s vote in favor of HR 2, a Balanced Budget Amendment to the United States Constitution, and King’s vote in favor of the American Health Care Act, legislation which sought to repeal Obamacare’s taxes and mandate penalties on small businesses. ###
09.18.2018	Honor recognizes King’s “valuable service supporting American Ethanol.” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, releases this statement and photo following his receipt of the “2018 Fueling Growth Award.” The award was presented to King by representatives of Growth Energy, the nation’s leading advocate for ethanol. King was chosen for this honor “in recognition of [his] valuable service supporting American Ethanol.” Congressman Steve King (center) is presented with the 2018 ‘Fueling Growth’ Award “I am pleased to receive the ‘Fueling Growth’ award for my work on behalf of ethanol,” said King. “There is a direct correlation between increased production and use of American ethanol and decreased importation of petroleum from foreign nations, some of whom are hostile to us. I support American energy independence, and I understand how ethanol and a strong RFS work together to enhance not only Iowa’s economy, but also our national security.” The “Fueling Growth” award is reserved for Members of Congress who have demonstrated their unwavering support for the biofuels industry and who have aggressively advocated for ethanol in 2018. Related: King has testified before the House Subcommittee on Energy and Power on the importance of ethanol and of the need to reaffirm the nation’s support for the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). King’s testimony may be read at this link: “The RFS has been great for Iowa and great for America.” ###
09.12.2018	4th District’s Dickinson and Winnebago counties included in FEMA individual assistance appeal Washington, D.C.- The entire Iowa delegation, including Reps. Steve King, Rod Blum, David Young and Dave Loebsack and Sens. Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst, wrote to President Donald Trump in support of Governor Kim Reynolds’ appeal of the Administration’s decision denying Individual Assistance under FEMA for Buchanan, Dickinson, Polk and Winnebago counties. “It is our understanding that since the August 1, 2018, submission of the request for a Presidential Disaster Declaration, an error was discovered in the assessment of apartment buildings in the City of Des Moines in Polk County. Therefore, the numbers were underreported from the Joint Preliminary Damage Assessment tool and were underreported to FEMA in its calculations,” the delegation wrote. “Thousands of Iowa residents were displaced because of the severe weather throughout the month of June and into early July and federal Individual Assistance is greatly needed. We ask that this appeal receive all due consideration.” On August 1, the Iowa delegation urged Trump to grant Reynolds’ request for federal disaster assistance for 30 Iowa counties. On August 20, that request was approved. The delegation also requested assistance through the FEMA Individual Assistance Program, the Small Business Administration Disaster Loan Program, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture assistance programs for the four counties of Buchanan, Dickinson, Polk and Winnebago. On August 22, FEMA denied the request for Individual Assistance. On September 11, Reynolds wrote to the Administration to appeal the decision. A copy of the delegation’s letter in support of Reynolds’ appeal is reprinted below, and may be seen here. September 11, 2018 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States of America The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We strongly support the request of the Governor of Iowa, Kim Reynolds, to appeal the decision of August 21, 2018, denying Individual Assistance under FEMA-4386-DR for Buchanan, Dickinson, Polk, and Winnebago counties. It is our understanding that since the August 1, 2018, submission of the request for a Presidential Disaster Declaration, an error was discovered in the assessment of apartment buildings in the City of Des Moines in Polk County. Therefore, the numbers were underreported from the Joint Preliminary Damage Assessment tool and were underreported to FEMA in its calculations. Thousands of Iowa residents were displaced because of the severe weather throughout the month of June and into early July and federal Individual Assistance is greatly needed. We ask that this appeal receive all due consideration. Thank you for your time and prompt consideration of this appeal. Sincerely, Representative Steve King Representative Rod Blum Representative David Young Representative Dave Loebsack Senator Charles E. Grassley Senator Joni K. Ernst ###
09.07.2018	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King issues this statement commending President Jimmy Morales of Guatemala for his decision to allow the mandate for the CICIG (Comision Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Guatemala/International Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala) to expire in September of 2019. CICIG, a United Nations creation, is a controversial organization whose actions within Guatemala have long been criticized as being overtly political and an affront to the sovereignty of Guatemalans. “Guatemala is right to reject the CICIG,” said King. “Simply put, CICIG’s politicized actions to date have left it compromised and with no moral standing to pursue its claimed mission within Guatemala as an advocate for the unbiased Rule of Law. President Morales understands the importance of establishing and maintaining a political system that respects the right of the Guatemalan people to choose leaders that reflect Guatemala’s values instead of the values of transnational organizations. Ending the presence in his country of a discredited entity like CICIG is a good step.” ###
08.23.2018	Phyllis Schlafly’s “Favorite Congressman” honored for advancing “pro-life, pro-family, America First values” in Congress Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, author of HR 490, the Heartbeat Protection Act, releases the following statement after learning that he has been named the recipient of the 2018 Phyllis Schlafly Award for Leadership. Prior recipients of this award include conservative luminaries like then-Senator Jeff Sessions, Morton and Helen Blackwell, and Ronald Reagan’s former Attorney General, Ed Meese. In selecting King as the recipient of this high honor, Phyllis Schlafly’s Eagles organization cited King’s work advancing the Heartbeat Protection Act, as well as his constant and consistent leadership in Congress in defense of pro-life, pro-family, and America First values. “It is a tremendous honor to be selected as the recipient of the 2018 Phyllis Schlafly Award for Leadership for my work on HR 490, the Heartbeat Protection Act,” said King. “In my office, I have placed the portraits of two individuals on permanent display because of my admiration for them. One is of Norman Borlaug, the Iowan who led the Green Revolution that feeds the world. The other is of Phyllis Schlafly, whose leadership to advance conservative principles and to defend our Constitution’s text is surpassed by none. I will continue to promote and defend the values that Phyllis Schlafly and I share, and I will continue to work to get a vote on my Heartbeat legislation on the floor of the House in this session of Congress.” In announcing the award, Ed Martin, President of Phyllis Schlafly Eagles, had the following to say about Congressman King: "Phyllis always referred to Steve King as her 'favorite' congressman. Since her passing in 2016, he has accelerated his work in defense of pro-life, pro-family, America First values in Congress. His work for the federal Heartbeat Bill has certainly solidified his role as one of the main champions for unborn babies. Steve King is a principled leader, and we need a hundred more like him fighting for us in the Swamp." Earlier this year, Congressman King was the recipient of another honor from Phyllis Schlafly’s sons, John and Andy Schlafly. In an editorial opposing amnesty legislation they announced the creation of the “Schlafly Test” for determining whether or not a proposed immigration law should be supported or defeated. In their words, “No bill on immigration is worth supporting unless Representatives King and Barletta are on board.” King opposed the amnesty proposals receiving votes on the floor of the House this summer, and King’s work exposing the government’s closely held DACA data was instrumental in defeating the amnesty legislation. ###
08.16.2018	Today, the independent, nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a study requested in 2015 by U.S. Congressmen Steve King (R-IA) and Pete Sessions (R-TX) entitled "Criminal Alien Statistics: Information on Incarcerations, Arrests, Convictions, Costs, and Removals." This report provides information on criminal aliens in the United States from fiscal years 2011 through 2016. Specifically, the report analyzed the number and nationality of criminal aliens incarcerated in local jails and state and federal prisons, the types of offenses for which criminal aliens were arrested and convicted, and the costs associated with incarcerating criminal aliens. King is a member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. Statement from Congressman King: “This GAO report on criminal alien populations illustrates just how reckless and lax the Obama administration was when it came to enforcing our immigration laws. Further, it validates President Trump’s call to ‘Build The Wall!’ along our border with Mexico. Over 90% of criminal aliens in federal prisons are citizens of just six countries: Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador, Colombia, Guatemala, and the Dominican Republic. The location of these countries leaves little doubt that criminal aliens are exploiting our porous Southern border to gain access to our country. One of the most effective things we could do to stop the flow of drugs and illegal aliens into the United States is to ‘Build The Wall!’ and I am grateful that the Trump administration has made the construction of a border wall the centerpiece of its proposals to strengthen enforcement of our immigration laws.” Statement from Congressman Sessions: "As we continue to work our way through the mire of immigration reform here in Congress, it is critical that we have all of the facts at hand," said Congressman Sessions. "The report released by the GAO sheds even more light on an alarming Obama-era practice that allowed criminal illegal aliens to roam our streets rather than placing them behind bars where those who break the law belong. While percentages of criminal aliens in state and federal prisons decreased between 2011 and 2016, the current administration, which stringently enforces our immigration laws, has found gang members, human traffickers, and drug smugglers were allowed to cross our border freely and directly into our state and country. In Texas alone, the criminal illegal aliens who have been incarcerated were largely convicted of some of the most heinous crimes, like sexual assault and child exploitation. This report proves that our national security was neglected by the previous administration and it is time we in Congress ensure a return to law and order by securing our southern border and protecting American families from known criminals." GAO report highlights: From Fiscal Years 2011 through 2016, the criminal alien proportion of the total estimated federal inmate population decreased, from approximately 25% to 21%. During this period, the estimated number of criminal aliens incarcerated in federal prisons decreased from about 50,400 to about 39,500. 91% of these criminal aliens were citizens of one of six countries, including Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador, Dominican Republic, Colombia, and Guatemala. Most of the costs to the federal government were associated with incarcerating criminal aliens in federal prisons, which accounted for 83 to 89% of total costs from FY2010 through 2015. In FY2015 the top five states with most State Criminal Alien Assistance Programs (SCAAP) criminal alien incarcerations: Arizona, California, Florida, New York, and Texas These five states accounted for 64% of the SCAAP criminal alien incarcerations in state prisons across the country. Read the full GAO report here. ###
08.01.2018	Twenty-two 4th District Counties Included in Iowa’s Request for Federal Assistance Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, announces that he has joined a letter sent by Iowa’s Congressional delegation to President Trump which asks the President to "expeditiously approve" Governor Kim Reynolds' request for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Iowa as a result of recent severe weather and flooding. The letter was signed by all of the members of the Iowa delegation and sent to President Trump this afternoon. "We stand united as a federal delegation with state and local officials - and those resilient Iowans who suffered from these fierce and consequential storms - in working with you and your administration to help expedite this much needed assistance," the delegation wrote in the letter. In total, thirty counties were included by Governor Reynolds in the state’s request for federal disaster assistance. These include the following twenty-two counties located in the 4th Congressional District represented by Congressman King: Buena Vista, Cerro Gordo, Cherokee, Chickasaw, Clay, Dickinson, Emmet, Floyd, Hamilton, Hancock, Humboldt, Kossuth, Lyon, O’Brien, Osceola, Palo Alto, Pocahontas, Sioux, Story, Webster, Winnebago, and Wright. The delegation letter to President Trump reads as follows: Dear Mr. President: We respectfully ask you to expeditiously approve the request made June 31, 2018, by Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds, for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Iowa as a result of severe weather that produced high winds, severe thunderstorms, hail, heavy rains, flash flooding and riverine flooding. These severe weather conditions caused significant damage to public and private property between June 6, 2018, through July 2, 2018. The 30 counties included in this request for public assistance are Adair, Buchanan, Buena Vista, Cerro Gordo, Cherokee, Chickasaw, Clay, Dallas, Delaware, Dickinson, Emmet, Floyd, Hamilton, Hancock, Howard, Humboldt, Kossuth, Lyon, O’Brien, Osceola, Palo Alto, Pocahontas, Polk, Sioux, Story, Warren, Webster, Winnebago, Winneshiek and Wright. The Governor also requested assistance though the FEMA Individual Assistance Program, the Small Business Administration Disaster Loan Program and the U.S. Department of Agriculture assistance programs for the four counties of Buchanan, Dickinson, Polk and Winnebago. After a thoughtful, comprehensive, and rigorous assessment, Governor Reynolds determined this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response and support is beyond the resources and capabilities of the State and affected local governments and that supplementary federal assistance is needed. We thank you for your prompt consideration of this request. We stand united as a federal delegation with State and local officials - and those resilient Iowans who suffered from these fierce and consequential storms - in working with you and your administration to help expedite this much needed assistance. Sincerely, ###
07.27.2018	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Committee on Small Business, releases this statement following the announcement that in the second quarter the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth has surged to 4.1%. The GDP is a measure of the monetary value of all the finished goods and services produced within a country's border. King attributes the surge in GDP growth to two primary factors: 1) enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act he voted for and 2) the Trump administration’s focus on eliminating costly and burdensome federal regulations. “Today’s announcement of 4.1% second quarter GDP growth is proof that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is working for Americans,” said King. “I predicted that today’s GDP announcement would be over 4%, and I did so because I understand the fundamental strength of our economy when we cut taxes and eliminate regulations. We should work on making the tax cuts permanent so we can continue to carry this momentum forward. With today’s number, the ‘best vote I have cast in Congress’ keeps getting better all the time, and only the most stubborn leftist could dispute this fact.” Background: In December, King described the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act as “an early Christmas present to American taxpayers.” At that time, King stated “When this bill becomes law, the American economy will be poised to have both a Happy New Year and a Happy New Decade of 3% GDP growth or more.” Today’s GDP announcement provides evidence that the economy is responding positively to the newly enacted tax cuts and is well on its way towards achieving this target. ###
07.24.2018	President Trump is Honoring Personal Promise to King to Hold Agriculture Harmless Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, releases the following statement applauding the Trump Administration for taking action to address the economic harm that unjustified trade retaliation is causing to the farm economy. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced this afternoon that it would be making up to $12 billion in assistance available to farmers who have experienced recent market disruptions. This amount more than offsets the expected $11 billion impact of foreign retaliatory tariffs on American goods. Importantly for the 4th District, the USDA assistance will specifically benefit producers of field crops like corn and soybeans, and livestock products like pork. Congressman King views today’s announcement as the President confirming his intent to deliver on a promise he personally made to King to hold agriculture harmless as he worked on addressing foreign trade. “President Trump personally promised me that agriculture would be held harmless as he worked on trade, and today’s announcement of $12 billion in USDA assistance for disrupted markets confirms his intention to keep his promise to me,” said King. “Importantly, the USDA intends to use a Trade Promotion Program to develop new export markets for American agricultural products. These new export markets will remain when the current disputes over trade are settled on terms more favorable to American producers. I applaud the Administration for taking this needed action, and I am confident that President Trump, Secretary Perdue, and Ambassador Branstad are all working diligently to open China’s markets to greater trade in Iowa’s agricultural products.” The USDA will use the following programs to assist farmers: The Market Facilitation Program, authorized under The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) Charter Act and administered by Farm Service Agency (FSA), will provide payments incrementally to producers of soybeans, sorghum, corn, wheat, cotton, dairy, and hogs. This support will help farmers manage disrupted markets, deal with surplus commodities, and expand and develop new markets at home and abroad. Additionally, USDA will use CCC Charter Act and other authorities to implement a Food Purchase and Distribution Program through the Agricultural Marketing Service to purchase unexpected surplus of affected commodities such as fruits, nuts, rice, legumes, beef, pork and milk for distribution to food banks and other nutrition programs. Finally, the CCC will use its Charter Act authority for a Trade Promotion Program administered by the Foreign Agriculture Service (FAS) in conjunction with the private sector to assist in developing new export markets for our farm products. ###
07.18.2018	National Assn. of Egg Farmers Urges House/Senate to Keep King’s “Very Important” PICA in Farm Bill Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, announces that his “Protect Interstate Commerce Act” amendment included in the House-passed version of the Farm Bill has been endorsed by the nation’s egg farmers. In a statement released today by the National Association of Egg Farmers, the organization is calling upon House and Senate Farm Bill conferees to agree to preserve King’s amendment in the final version of the Farm Bill. “States do not have the Constitutional authority to regulate interstate commerce; the United States Congress does,” said King. “Egg farmers in Iowa and around the country understand the importance of continued access to California’s market, and they are right to object to California’s attempt to regulate out-of-state producers. PICA fixes this problem and ensures that agriculture producers in the other 49 states are not held hostage to the demands of California’s Vegan Lobby. I appreciate the National Association of Egg Farmers public support for preserving the King PICA Amendment in the Farm Bill.” The National Association of Egg Farmers were generous in their praise of Congressman King’s legislation, noting that they support PICA because it both “seeks to uphold the U.S. Constitution’s commerce clause” and also because it respects “farmers know how” in the production of “safe, quality eggs while caring for their chickens.” The National Association of Egg Farmers also expresses concerns that a failure to keep King’s language in the Farm Bill could lead to California’s regulations “removing consumers' choices and forcing only cage-free eggs.” Some excerpts from the National Association of Egg Farmers’ statement follow: “The Farm Bill is before Congress every five years and is important to the nation's farmers. This year it is very important to National Association of Egg Farmers members, as the House version includes an amendment from Rep. Steve King from Iowa that seeks to uphold the U.S. Constitution commerce clause.” “In effect that clause says Congress is to regulate commerce among the states, but certain states are implementing laws regulating how eggs are produced outside the state and then imported into that state. Specifically, they are pressing for removing cages for egg-laying hens. They claim they are doing it for the welfare of the chicken and the quality of the egg. They need to ask the farmers. Farmers today moved to cages for welfare considerations and for egg quality improvements. . . . “There are more external parasites in cage-free farms, specifically red mites. 83% of European cage-free egg farms are already infested with poultry red mites. All 27 member nations in the EU are about 40% cage-free compared to 16% in the U.S. Subjecting poultry to parasites is inhumane. Currently, California is struggling with a major poultry disease (Virulent Newcastle Disease) with more than 40 outbreaks in backyard poultry that are cage-free. Once discovered, these chickens have to be destroyed. Forcing chickens into production systems where they contract poultry diseases is inhumane.” . . . “Farmers know how to produce safe, quality eggs while caring for their chickens. Don't take that knowledge away by removing consumers' choices and forcing only cage-free eggs. It is for these reasons National Egg Farmers is urging support for the King amendment in the Farm Bill.” ###
07.16.2018	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, announces that the Iowa Congressional delegation has extended an invitation to the EPA’s Acting Administrator, Andrew Wheeler, to come to Iowa. The delegation believes that visiting Iowa would give Administrator Wheeler the opportunity to meet with those in the renewable fuels sector who are depending on Acting Administrator Wheeler’s strong enforcement of the Renewable Fuel Standard. During his confirmation hearing last year, Wheeler pledged to “fully support” the RFS program, correctly recognizing it as “the law of the land.” The text of the letter to Acting Administrator Wheeler, signed by all 6 members of the Iowa Congressional delegation, is as follows: Dear Administrator Wheeler: You hold a very important role as the acting Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). It is our expectation you will reinforce the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) and bolster our nation’s energy security. We’re encouraged by your statement at your confirmation hearing last year where you said, “The RFS is the law of the land. I fully support the program.” Iowa farmers deserve nothing less. Renewable fuels are critical to achieving energy independence in the United States and play an important role in Iowa’s economy. We remain concerned about the demand destruction of 2.25 billion gallons due to the unprecedented number of small refinery “hardship” waivers granted in 2016 and 2017. The recently released 2019 proposed rule indicates there will be no accounting moving forward of gallons that might be waived under the small refinery waivers in order to maintain the statutory Renewable Volume Obligation. A reduction in demand for renewable fuels pushes commodity prices even lower and farmers are already facing low commodity prices. We strongly urge you to reconsider the proposed rule and work to ensure that the final rule is structured to ensure that any waivers granted do not reduce the overall Renewable Volume Obligation. President Trump directed the EPA to allow for the sale of E-15 year round but unfortunately this hasn’t come to fruition. This is particularly frustrating given the damaging impact that previously granted waivers have already had on RIN prices and renewable fuel demand. As Iowa corn farmers are anxiously awaiting their 2018 crop, a Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) waiver would help grow demand and improve the markets. Since its creation, the RFS has helped us reduce our dependency on foreign oil, promoted cleaner air, created good-paying jobs, given consumers cheaper fuel, and spurred economic growth in our rural communities. Across Iowa, cooperatives and renewable fuel plants dot the landscape. We invite you to visit Iowa and look forward to working with you. Sincerely, Background: In April, Congressman King met in Washington D.C. with members of the Iowa Renewable Fuels Association (see: “King Tells Iowa RFA: “I Want Ethanol sold TO, THROUGH, and BEYOND the E15 Blend”). Among the topics discussed were Congressman King’s concerns about the EPA’s questionable use of waivers to undercut the RFS standard, and Congressman King’s desire for E15 to be sold year round. Both of these issues are specifically raised in the letter the delegation is sending to Administrator Wheeler. Congressman Steve King (center) met in April with members of the Iowa Renewable Fuels Association. Those meeting with King included: Monte Shaw, Iowa Renewable Fuels Association; Grant Menke, Iowa Renewable Fuels Association; Rick Schwarck, Absolute Energy; Steve Roe, Little Sioux Corn Processors; Delayne Johnson, Quad City Corn Processors; and Pat Boyle, Homeland Energy Solutions. (Photo Credit: Office of Congressman Steve King.) ###
07.12.2018	Tells Strzok: “It’s not possible, under oath, to tell the American people that there’s not bias. The evidence of bias is replete in the evidence that we have.” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following video of his participation in the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform's Joint Hearing on "Oversight of FBI and DOJ Actions Surrounding the 2016 Election: Testimony by FBI Deputy Assistant Director Peter Strzok.” During his questioning, Congressman King grilled Peter Strzok over the bias he repeatedly displayed towards the President in numerous derogatory e-mails and texts written during 2016 and 2017. At the conclusion of his questioning of the witness, Congressman King made an important suggestion to the Judiciary Committee chairman, Bob Goodlatte. King suggested that the Committee subpoena text messages that Mr. Strzok has not made public. King believes that Strzok, who has been allowed to determine for himself which of his text messages are relevant to the investigation, is sitting on work related e-mails that will reveal additional examples of pro-Clinton, anti-Trump bias expressed by a key FBI figure involved in both the Hillary Clinton e-mail scandal and in the current Mueller investigation. “It’s not possible, under oath, to tell the American people that there’s not bias. The evidence of bias is replete in the evidence that we have.” Strzok appeared before the two committees today to discuss whether his actions in each investigation were irrevocably tainted by the bias he has repeatedly shown towards not only President Donald Trump, but also towards the Americans who supported President Trump's campaign. Notably, Strzok’s scandalous anti-Trump animus was made evident in a series of derogatory e-mail and text message exchanges he exchanged with FBI attorney Lisa Page, with whom he was engaged in an adulterous affair. Strzok has testified he never expected these messages to be made public. ###
06.28.2018	King votes for House Resolution demanding DOJ Comply with Congressional subpoenas by July 6th Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following video of his exchange with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein during today’s Judiciary Committee Oversight Hearing examining “FBI and DOJ Actions Surrounding the 2016 Election.” The oversight hearing occurred on the same day that the House of Representatives passed a resolution, HR 970, insisting that the Department of Justice fully comply within 7 days with Congressional requests regarding the production of documents that relate to potential violations of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance. King voted in favor of the resolution, which passed the House on a Vote of 226-183. In his round of questioning, King grilled Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein about whether the Department of Justice would fully provide information even if the President of the United States ordered it all to be declassified. Rosenstein’s answers were unsatisfactory for anyone interested in full disclosure. In fact, King was forced to rebuke Rosenstein for failing to provide a direct answer. As King points out, if the American public and the Congress are to have confidence in the DOJ/FBI’s 2016 actions, "as much information as possible" has to have "sunlight on it." To watch Congressman King’s questioning of Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein click the image or here. Excerpts: Congressman King: “The public is never going to have confidence until as much information as possible can have sunlight on it. And Congress is not going to have confidence until we actually get information that we don’t have to pull, and have to fill in the blanks, and then fill in the blanks with redactions.” . . . “What if the President of the United States just simply issued an order that all information relevant here that Congress is asking for is now declassified and directed you to release it to Congress…would you abide by such an order?” . . . “I’m not really hearing the answer to my questions, Mr. Rosenstein.” ###
06.28.2018	60 Plus Association Recognizes King’s Efforts to Preserve Social Security and Medicare Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King announces that he has been presented with the “Guardian of Seniors’ Rights Award” by the 60 Plus Association “in appreciation for his tireless efforts on behalf of senior citizens.” In particular, the 60 Plus Association was impressed by King’s record working to “assure the financial stability of Social Security and Medicare.” King was presented the “Guardian of Seniors’ Rights Award,” the Association’s highest award, by 60 Plus Founder and Chairman Jim Martin and President Saul Anuzis. Congressman Steve King (center) is presented with the “Guardian of Seniors’ Rights Award” by Chairman Jim Martin (left) and President Saul Anuzis (right). Photo Credit: Office of Congressman Steve King “The Guardian Award is given to members of Congress in appreciation of their tireless efforts on behalf of senior citizens, as so many of our elderly struggle on a fixed income,” said Chairman Martin. “Seniors have to live within their means and so should our government. We also particularly appreciate the efforts by Congressman King to assure the financial stability of Social Security and Medicare.” ###
06.27.2018	King leads House effort to successfully defeat both bills in Paul Ryan’s Amnesty Agenda Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following statement in reaction to the defeat of two bills in the House of Representatives that sought to provide Amnesty to millions of illegal aliens. King, a nationally recognized leader on the issues of illegal immigration and border security, worked diligently to secure the votes necessary to defeat both pieces of Amnesty legislation. Last week, the House defeated HR 4760 on a vote of 193-231. Today, the House defeated Speaker Ryan’s Amnesty bill, HR 6136, on a vote of 121-301. “Today, the House stood up for the Rule of Law by defeating Paul Ryan’s attempt to shove an Amnesty agenda down the throat of the American public,” said King. “Americans elected President Trump to ‘Build The Wall!’ and they elected a Republican House and Senate to assist him in the effort. This Congress was not elected to pass a sweeping Amnesty that would have repeated the mistakes of 1986. Instead of wasting our time granting legal protections to admitted criminals, we should be addressing the border security agenda the American people want.” Many attribute Congressman King’s work exposing and disseminating the government’s closely held data on DACA recipients as being a key and decisive moment in the national debate over the legislation. King’s unearthed DACA data contains shocking statistics revealing the extent to which the American public would have been placed at risk of criminal violence by those seeking Amnesty. Included in the data were the facts that 66% of DACA recipients who admitted to crimes received permits anyway, and that nearly 60,000 illegal aliens with existing arrest records for crimes including rape, murder, and assault, would have been allowed to stay. King’s leadership on this issue has not gone unnoticed. John and Andy Schlafly, conservative activists and the sons of conservative icon Phyllis Schlafly, have publicly proposed a test by which Americans should measure whether an immigration bill should become law. Under the Schlafly test, “no bill on immigration is worth supporting unless Representatives King and Barletta are on board.” ###
06.27.2018	Remarks Offered as King Works to Defeat Paul Ryan’s Sweeping Amnesty Legislation Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases video of a special order speech he delivered on the floor of the House of Representatives on the subject of illegal immigration. King’s remarks are especially timely and are offered as the House is considering Paul Ryan’s sweeping Amnesty legislation. King opposes Amnesty, and will be voting against the Ryan Amnesty legislation. With family separations arising as a much discussed issue in the debate over illegal immigration enforcement, King made a point to honor the members of the American military who separate from their families in order to serve the nation. In his remarks, King pointed to a particular instance of family separation that has always stuck with him: that of then- Captain (now US Senator) Joni Ernst from her 4 year old daughter, Libby. To view King’s remarks, click the image or click here. “It broke my heart to see that little four year old girl and think about her mother being deployed in a war zone, missing out on 13 months of some of the most joyful time you can have raising a child. And that child was separated from her mother, and that child’s mother’s name is, today, Senator Joni Ernst. Her daughter, Libby, is now going to the military academy. But we have people who are separated from their families on a consistent basis. Everybody who is deployed who has children is separated from their children for long periods of time. A lot longer than [illegal aliens] are separated from their children when they sneak into America and break our laws.” King is correct: military personnel often are asked to make painful sacrifices, including familial separations over extended periods of time. When one considers the separations experienced by our military families, separations endured without complaint by the heroic men and women of the armed forces, sympathies are indeed misplaced when/if illegal aliens, temporarily separated for violating our laws, are similarly compared. ###
06.22.2018	Congressman Steve King releases the following video of remarks he delivered last night on the House floor on the subjects of immigration and border security. King is a nationally recognized leader on the two subjects, and a long time champion of building a Border Wall on the US-Mexico border. King's remarks are especially significant given their timing, as the House is currently considering legislation which would grant Amnesty to millions of illegal aliens. Congressman King opposes Amnesty, and he opposes both of the bills the House of Representatives has scheduled for consideration this week and next as they contain amnesty provisions that would reward illegal aliens for having broken American immigration law to enter the country. To watch King’s remarks, click here. In this video, King explains his own personal knowledge of the manner in which alien minors are humanely treated when they encounter the Border Patrol. "They're playing soccer indoors in air conditioning...my kids never got to do that." King also notes that it doesn't seem to bother the "hyperventilating" American left when abortion literally "tears a baby from its mother" or when children are separated from American parents because the parents have committed crimes. What's really at play here? The left "wants to invite illegals into their cities for political power" and "see a political gain come out of promoting illegal immigration." Sadly, even though this means exposing Americans like Kate Steinle and Jamiel Shaw II to an influx of killers from the most dangerous countries in the world, it is a price the left is willing to pay for power. Related: The Schlafly Test: “No bill on immigration is worth supporting unless Representatives King and Barletta are on board.” ###
06.22.2018	“Congress has ducked its responsibility.” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Small Business Committee and the House Agriculture Committee, releases the following video of his participation in a hearing held by the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade. The Subcommittee, which is chaired by King's fellow Iowan, Congressman Rod Blum, was titled "Accelerating Agriculture: How Federal Regulations Impact America's Small Farmers." During his remarks, Congressman King questioned the extent to which Congress has delegated its regulatory responsibilities to the Executive Branch. King also expressed his continued support for the REINS Act, legislation he voted for in the House that would subject regulations which cost more than $100 million to a strict Congressional approval process. Importantly, King expressed his concerns about the economic impact of currently existing regulations that would be grandfathered in by the REINS Act. Congressman King suggested that these regulations should also face a regular Congressional review and sunsetting process to ensure that American small businesses and American agriculture are not swamped in costly red tape and burdened by overregulation. To watch Congressman King’s remarks, please click here. Witnesses at the hearing included: Mr. Craig Martins, Operations Manager Three Rivers FS, Dyersville, IA * Testifying on behalf of the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives and GROWMARK, Inc Mr. John Weber, Owner Valley Lane Farms Inc., Dysart, IA * Testifying on behalf of the National Pork Producers Council Mr. Glenn Brunkow, Co-Owner Brush Creek Cattle Company, Wamego, KS * Testifying on behalf of the American Farm Bureau Federation Ms. Laurie Ristino, Associate Professor of Law, Director, Center for Agriculture and Food Systems Vermont Law School, South Royalton, VT ###
06.21.2018	House Passed Farm Bill Contains King’s PICA, Funds Ag Export Programs and ISU Research, Creates FMD Vaccine Bank Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, released the following statement following House passage of HR. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 (Farm Bill). The Farm Bill contains several of Congressman King’s initiatives, including legislation he introduced, the Protect Interstate Commerce Act (PICA), which prevents activist states like California from unconstitutionally regulating interstate commerce in agriculture by imposing regulatory hurdles on other states. The Farm Bill passed the House of Representatives this afternoon on a vote of 213-211 with Congressman King voting in favor of the bill. “The rural economy is hurting, and we need to get the House’s Farm Bill enacted into law as quickly as possible to ensure a vibrant farm economy that will protect our family farms,” said King. “This farm bill safeguards the Crop Insurance program, increases funding for important export programs, and furthers agriculture research being done at Iowa State University. It also includes my PICA provision that will ensure Iowa’s agricultural products are not denied access to some of the nation’s largest markets. This bill is too important to our rural communities to be left sitting on Senator McConnell’s desk. I encourage the Senate to pass it quickly so that President Trump can sign it into law and bring rural communities the assurances they seek.” In addition to PICA, the Farm Bill also contains several initiatives championed by Congressman King: The House-passed Farm Bill contains a King amendment which strengthens the EQIP Soil/Water Conservation Program by making Drainage Districts eligible for EQIP Contracts. The House-passed Farm Bill includes “Genome to Phenome” language that allows universities such as Iowa State University to further research weather, environmental, and production system impacts on crops. The House-passed Farm Bill includes provisions creating and funding the Foot-and-Mouth Disease Vaccine Bank. The House-passed Farm Bill makes important changes to the SNAP program, placing work requirements of 20 hours a week on some food stamp recipients. ###
06.20.2018	Phyllis Schlafly’s sons urge President Trump to reject House Amnesty proposals Washington, D.C.- In case you missed it, Townhall has published a column today in which Phyllis Schlafly’s sons, John and Andy Schlafly, urge President Trump to “stand firm” against Amnesty legislation that could be considered in the House this week. In fact, the Schlafly brothers, who continue to lead the Phyllis Schlafly Eagles organizations, also suggest a litmus test that President Trump should use when determining whether immigration legislation should be supported: “No bill on immigration is worth supporting,” they write, “unless Representatives King and Barletta are on board.” King is a nationally recognized leader on the subject of immigration policy, and he is a steadfast champion of the Rule of Law. King opposes both of the Amnesty bills lame-duck Speaker Paul Ryan is currently attempting to ram through the House, as they repeat the mistakes of 1986 by granting Amnesty to illegal alien lawbreakers. The Schlafly’s are exactly right: “Amnesty would merely encourage more illegality.” As currently drafted, the proposed House legislation fails the King/Barletta test articulated by John and Andy Schlafly. The Schlafly’s are an influential voice in the Conservative movement, and Republicans in the House of Representatives would do well to read this column. Phyllis Schlafly’s early endorsement of President Trump is viewed by many as a pivotal moment in his run for the presidency. Americans opposed to the House passage of an Amnesty program dreamed up by lame-duck Speaker Paul Ryan are encouraged to call their Member of Congress (202-224-3121) to express their opposition. Excerpts from “Trump Should Stand Firm Against Illegals” “The push for amnesty for illegal aliens is turbo-charged by stories of separating children from their parents at the southern border. But children are often separated from lawbreaking and even law-abiding American parents, so it is curious why liberals and others would suddenly complain when it happens to families for entering our country illegally. The critics do not provide an alternative to the current policy of prosecuting lawbreaking parents while allowing their children to go free. If we had a border wall then these separations would not occur, and the critics of Trump are the same ones who oppose building the wall.” . . . “The timing is suspicious for this media campaign about separating children from parents. The push for an amnesty bill has reached a fever pitch for more than a million young adults, who are euphemistically called “childhood arrivals” because many of them crossed our border illegally while teenagers. These migrants would be wonderful assets to their homelands, and they have more relatives back home than they do here. Amnesty would merely encourage more illegality.” . . . “In 1986, President Ronald Reagan signed into law an immigration bill that granted amnesty and created the incentive for more illegal immigration. Far from solving a problem, amnesty induces more illegal immigration in the future. So to attract support by President Trump, the House compromise amnesty bill includes funding for construction of a border wall, to the tune of $25 billion. But funding a wall is not the same as building a wall, because liberals run to court to block almost anything Trump does related to immigration.” . . . “Lame duck House Speaker Paul Ryan, who is stepping down at the age of only 48 rather than fight for the Trump agenda, has long given priority to the agenda of the pro-illegal immigration lobbyists. But their goals are not those of the American people who elected Trump as president.” . . . “Both oppose the compromise bill being pushed on President Trump, and no bill on immigration is worth supporting unless Representatives King and Barletta are on board.” (Emphasis added). ###
06.19.2018	IG Report Reveals FBI Investigators Were Aware of Obama’s Public Statements Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following video of his questioning of Department of Justice Inspector General, Michael Horowitz. King questioned IG Horowitz at length about former President Barack Obama’s influence over the decision to re-write the “intent” language in former FBI Director James Comey’s “summary of the prosecution/exoneration statement” of Hillary Clinton. In the wake of public comments made by President Obama, the intent language in Comey’s “summary of the prosecution/exoneration statement” was changed from the statutory language of “gross negligence” to “extreme carelessness.” This change is important to note because it served as part of Comey’s justification for absolving Mrs. Clinton of criminal wrongdoing. In response to his questioning, the Inspector General conceded that his report showed that President Obama’s public comments had been the cause of much internal discussion within the FBI. To watch Congressman King questioning the Inspector General click the image above, or click here. Excerpt: “Mr. Horowitz, let me assert that the evidence I’m looking at suggests that President Barack Obama spoke that word [intent] into law. On the taped program of October 10, 2015, he said Hillary Clinton was “careless but not intentional.” That program was aired on October 11, on CBS’ “60 Minutes.” I have an article from the New York Times that’s dated the 16th of October, the article that references October the 11th, where it says in the article “Mr. Obama said he had no impression that Mrs. Clinton had purposefully tried ‘to hide something or to squirrel away information.’ In doing so, Mr. Obama spoke directly to a core component of the law used against Mr. Petraeus, intent, and said he did not think it applied in Mrs. Clinton’s case.” “I’m going to suggest that the President suggested that language through the open medium and spoke the word into the law to require intent, which shows up in the following months, in particular in James Comey’s July 5th, 2016 summary of the prosecution/exoneration statement. Six times that word “intent” shows up. I find it no place else.” King has long believed that the trail of bias and corruption in the events surrounding the Hillary Clinton e-mail scandal leads directly to Barack Obama, and that during the Obama administration the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation were weaponized against Republican political opponents. With his testimony today before the Joint Committee on Judiciary and Government Reform, the Inspector General validates King’s belief that if Barack Obama were sending a message to the Federal Bureau of Investigation thru his public statements about Sec. Clinton, it was a message that was received within the Bureau. ###
06.19.2018	Washington Times: DACA kids approved despite murder, rape and sex crimes arrests Fox News: Thousands of DACA recipients with arrest records, including 10 accused murderers, allowed to stay in US Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following statement in the wake of news reports revealing the extent to which the unconstitutional Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is endangering the American public. Recently released data on DACA recipients, data gathered and released at the request of Congressman Steve King, reveals the terrifying truth about Speaker Paul Ryan’s Amnesty agenda: it is placing law abiding citizens and legal residents at increased risk of being raped, of being murdered, or of becoming the victims of a drunk driver. “Last week, I announced that 66% of DACA applicants who self-reported criminality received a DACA permit anyway,” said King. “The latest data released by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services paints a frightening picture of who many of these DACA recipients are. Nearly 60,000 illegal aliens with arrest records have been allowed to stay in the United States through DACA, and their arrests include violent crimes like murder, rape, and assault. The government’s data makes it clear: if lame-duck Speaker Ryan attempts to ram an Amnesty agenda through Congress, he will be Delivering Amnesty to Criminal Aliens. The safety of the American public must come first. Paul Ryan’s DACA Amnesty must be voted down, and President Trump must be willing to veto it should he have the opportunity to do so.” The Washington Times: “Ten people who’d been arrested on murder charges were nonetheless granted permission to remain and work in the U.S. under the Obama-era DACA amnesty, according to new government data released Monday. Thirty-one “Dreamers” had rape charges on their records, nearly 500 had been accused of sex crimes, and more than 2,000 had been arrested for drunken driving — yet were approved for DACA status. All told, 53,000 people who have been approved for DACA — 7 percent of the total — had a criminal record when the government granted them status. Nearly 8,000 racked up criminal charges after they’d been approved, according to the data from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.” Fox News: “Of the 53,792 DACA recipients with a "prior" arrest, more than 4,500 had been arrested on allegations of assault or battery; 830 arrests were related to sex crimes -- including rape, sexual abuse or indecent exposure; and 95 arrests were made on warrants for kidnapping, human trafficking or false imprisonment. Ten such arrests -- or 0.02 percent of all arrests -- were made in murder cases.” See Also: “Who are DACA recipients?” King Reveals Government’s Troubling Data- June 8, 2018 Conservative Review: Vital Info on DACA Recipients Missing from Gov’t Database- June 14, 2018 ###
06.19.2018	Data Obtained by Congressman King Blows Lid Off DACA Recipients’ Criminal Records Washington, D.C.- In case you missed it, Conservative Review has published a second explosive story detailing the massive fraud being perpetrated on the American people via efforts to grant Amnesty to illegal aliens through the DACA program. The article’s author, Daniel Horowitz, was given exclusive access to the government’s closely-held data regarding those in the DACA population, data which was only obtained by Congressman Steve King after he placed months of intense pressure on the Department of Homeland Security. It is believed that King is the only Member of Congress to have reviewed what the government claims to know about DACA applicants. In this installment, Conservative Review dives deeper into the depths of the DACA data to expose more about what the government knows, and doesn’t know, about DACA recipients. The conclusions are shocking, and reveal a government willing to place the safety of its citizens and legal residents behind its desire to quickly grant Amnesty to illegal aliens. (Part One: “Vital information on DACA recipients missing from government database” is available here.) Congressman King, an opponent of Amnesty, encourages the public to read Horowitz’s piece, “The government doesn’t even know how many criminals were given amnesty” and to demand accountability from their elected representatives. Americans opposed to the House passage of an Amnesty program dreamed up by lame-duck Speaker Paul Ryan that rewards criminal aliens for their unlawful presence in our country are encouraged to call their Member of Congress and express their opposition. Excerpts from “The government doesn’t even know how many criminals were given amnesty”: “We were all told that “Dreamers” are as pure as the wind-driven snow and that we shouldn’t deport entrepreneurs, etc.; rather, we should focus our enforcement on criminals. We should therefore expect that on this data point, perhaps more than any other, the government would meticulously document all self-reported and discovered criminals among the applicants, record the data, and obviously deny them DACA status. Not so. Once again, criminal information on only 87,076, roughly 10 percent, of the initial applications was stored in the electric “ELIS” system. The DACA form asks applicants if they “[h]ave ever been arrested for, charged with, or convicted of a felony or misdemeanor[…]?” Of the small universe of recorded data for initial renewals, Rep. King was informed that 3,507 had self-reported as having a criminal record. Bizarrely, the USCIS said that criminal information on 5,835 of the applications was “not available.” Most disturbingly, 66 percent, or 1,191, of those self-reported criminals were approved, and 4,946 (85 percent) of the “not available” category were approved! That might not sound like a lot of people, but remember, these are just the self-reported criminals. You can imagine how many lied and didn’t check that box.” . . . “This point is accentuated by the fact that when it comes to renewals, which were mainly after the electronic records were in place in late 2015, 33,709 self-reported as criminals, and 94 percent, or 31,854, were granted approval. An additional 9,218 renewal applications were listed as having the criminal status “not available,” of which 97 percent were approved! Indeed, USCIS just published new data since sending Steve King the original criminal data showing that a total of 59,786 DACA recipients have been arrested while in the U.S. Arrest records show some were apprehended for assault, rape, drug charges, and even murder — and yet were still given status. What we do know is that a number of DACA recipients have turned out to be drug smugglers and MS-13 members, and UACs/“dreamers” as a whole are supplying the surge of drugs and MS-13. One disturbing fact about the data is that those who applied under the age of 14 were never even fingerprinted. Now, one might say there is no need to look at the criminal record of people that young, but this means there is no basic way of verifying their identity. And remember, when they are too young to provide us a glimpse into their threat assessment, that means we cannot say they are harmless, especially when they are of the prime recruiting age for MS-13.” . . . One of the big talking points propagated in support of DACA is that these are the best and brightest, who are well educated and stand to be net contributors to society. Officially, DACA recipients were required to either be currently attending school or (if older) have a high school diploma or GED. It turns out that for a whopping 69 percent of the 817,798 total approved applications, the USCIS does not have readily available information on education status. Of the remaining pool of recipients for whom there is information, only 15.4 percent have a high school diploma or GED, and only 13.3 percent have up to one year of college. Only 235 individuals (0.1 percent) have an associate’s degree, and 246 have a bachelor’s degree; 16 individuals have advanced degrees. If so much of the critical criteria for the most important eligibility factors went unreported in 14 million pages of paper documents, and much of what is reported downright betrays those conditions, it’s hard to imagine that the data that indicates that prima facie eligibility was verified carefully.” . . . “The moral of the story is that, in this political environment, there is no right way to do amnesty. It will never work for the American citizen.” (Emphasis added). ###
06.14.2018	IG Report on FBI’s Clinton E-Mail Investigation Provides Opportunity to Clean-Up DOJ Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following statement in the wake of the Inspector General’s report on FBI misconduct during the Bureau’s investigation of the e-mail scandal surrounding former Democratic Senator, and failed Presidential candidate, Hillary Clinton. The report finds that former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey departed “clearly and dramatically from FBI and department norms” in the handling of the Clinton scandal, and that conduct by FBI employees “cast a cloud over the entire FBI investigation.” “The Inspector General’s report shows former FBI Director James Comey willfully and frequently ‘deviated’ from well-established Department of Justice procedures as the FBI purportedly investigated Hillary Clinton’s e-mail scandal,” said King. “The corruption did not begin and end with Director Comey. The complicity existed at the highest levels in the FBI and it is clear there was collusion within the FBI. Attorney General Sessions did the right thing when he fired former FBI Deputy Andrew McCabe, and he should use the findings in this report to further clean-up the Department of Justice. My advice to the Attorney General is to use the Inspector General’s report to ‘Drain the Swamp,’ Jeff!” One outrageous example of the FBI’s biased conduct contained in the Inspector General’s report is the new revelation that FBI agent Peter Strzok, a key player in the FBI’s investigation into alleged Russian interference in the 2016 election, and then-FBI lawyer Lisa Page had the following text message exchange: “[Trump’s] not ever going to become president, right? Right?!” Page texted Strzok. “No. No he won’t. We’ll stop it,” Strzok responded.” Attorney General Sessions has previously pledged to clean-up the FBI and the Department of Justice. On Wednesday, Sessions told The Hill newspaper that “If anyone else shows up in this report to have done something that requires termination we will do so.” Congressman King has every expectation that Attorney General Sessions, a man with a reputation for integrity and devotion to the Rule of Law, will keep his word. As he continues to review the Inspector General’s findings, Congressman King will have further comment on this subject. One preliminary assessment can be made, however: this report is unlikely to be good news for former Attorney General Loretta Lynch, infamous for her airport tarmac meeting with Bill Clinton. A quick look at the report indicates that her name appears 569 times in a 500 page document. ###
06.14.2018	“What we do know paints a disturbing picture of our government placing the desire for legalization at all costs ahead of its own stated criteria and public safety.” Washington, D.C.- In case you missed it, Conservative Review has published an explosive story detailing the massive fraud being perpetrated on the American people via efforts to grant Amnesty to illegal aliens through the DACA program. The article’s author, Daniel Horowitz, was given exclusive access to the government’s closely-held data regarding those in the DACA population, data which was only obtained by Congressman Steve King after he placed months of intense pressure on the Department of Homeland Security. It is believed that King is the only Member of Congress to have reviewed what the government claims to know about DACA applicants. Horowitz’s findings will appall the American public, and should give those rushing to back efforts to enact Amnesty pause. Although much of the DACA data is incomplete, and many reported answers appear either erroneous or fraudulent, “what we do know paints a disturbing picture of our government placing the desire for legalization at all costs ahead of its own stated criteria and public safety,” Horowitz concludes. Congressman King, an opponent of Amnesty, encourages the public to read Horowitz’s piece, “Vital Info on DACA recipients missing from gov’t database” and to demand accountability from their elected representatives. As Congressman King asked last week, who are DACA recipients? Why are Amnesty advocates undermining the Rule of Law and placing the public’s safety at risk? And, importantly, why the rush to repeat the mistakes of the 1986 Amnesty for identity thieves and other self-reported DACA criminals? Excerpts from “Vital Info on DACA Recipients Missing from Government Database”: “We were told that it would be better if illegal immigrants were drawn out of the shadows and documented. Therefore, an American president illegally amnestied many without the consent of the people’s representatives, something that even King George couldn’t do without parliament. Yet one look at new government data provided to Rep. Steve King and shared exclusively with Conservative Review shows that, six years into the illegal amnesty, we still know very little about the amnestied population. What we do know paints a disturbing picture of our government placing the desire for legalization at all costs ahead of its own stated criteria and public safety.” “Illegal foreign nationals mean everything to our current political class. It is on their account that we have broken all legal norms and uprooted 200 years of legal precedent on sovereignty and control of immigration. It is on their account that the politicians refuse to confront the MS-13 and drug crisis caused by the border crisis. It is on their account that the border wall is being delayed, and therefore there is yet another surge of illegal immigration. They have the weight of every political, cultural, and even religious institution behind their cause. They are politically unassailable and unstoppable. Their dreams come before American dreams and their desires hold hostage any effort to secure our border. But who are they?” . . . “Rep. King was told that the data from the paper applications concerning such important information as continuous residence and criminal records wasn’t even electronically recorded for the first three and a half years of the program, not until November 1, 2015. Prior data is simply unavailable at this point. “This process was so rushed that it appears USCIS used general staff rather than professional adjudicators to process and record the applications,” said King. “There were so many mistakes made in copying handwritten information into the electronic system that some applications had dates of birth copied into the system indicating the applicants were born over 100 years ago.” . . . “While USCIS did run the applicants through the FBI fingerprint database, many of them are known to have stolen or fabricated identities, and there was no effort to verify their full identities or criminal records in their home countries. Moreover, as is always the case, applicants under 14 weren’t fingerprinted. Given that we already know there was sloppy reporting and erroneously granted status, it raises serious questions as to how many others successfully engaged in fraud. About 2,100 of the applications didn’t even contain information as basic as their country of origin — yet they were still awarded DACA status! “It was run on the honor system, with the government never laying eyes on most of the beneficiaries,” observed Jessica Vaughan, one of the leading experts on immigration and identity fraud, when shown the new information from USCIS. “This is a recipe for fraud. There is a real risk that a huge percentage of the DACA beneficiaries are guilty of identity theft and fraud, either prior to obtaining DACA or during the application process. Surveys have suggested that about half of the DACA beneficiaries had worked illegally before obtaining the DACA work permit, and would have needed to use a false or stolen Social Security number to obtain employment. The government did not attempt to find out how many had used other SSNs or identity documents before applying for DACA. This is a concerning breach of responsibility, as identity theft is a serious crime that can cause real harm to unsuspecting citizens, whether by destroying their credit history, exposing them to financial loss, or preventing them from obtaining jobs and benefits they are entitled to.” . . . “The report issued to Rep. King also showed that so many of the individuals didn’t fulfill the education requirements, some were downright criminals, and much of the data is not even recorded. A whopping 66 percent of self-reported criminals were initially approved, and 33,709 or 94 percent were granted renewals. As it stands now, almost everyone in Washington is promoting amnesty for a population we know nothing about. Doesn’t anyone want to first find out the truth about the DACA process and the nature of these people before putting them ahead of the safety and security of Americans?” (All Emphasis Added). ###
06.13.2018	Steve Bannon Delivers Immigration Warning at Conservative Opportunity Society Event Washington, D.C.- In case you missed it, the Washington Post has published an account of former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon’s appearance at the weekly Conservative Opportunity Society (COS) breakfast hosted by COS Chairman, Steve King. Bannon, whose unique insights into 2016’s political dynamics contributed to the stunning election of President Donald Trump, provided key insights on today’s political landscape to the two-dozen or so conservatives in attendance. Of particular importance to those in attendance today, were Bannon’s remarks on the subject of illegal immigration. While some in the GOP are advocating passing legislation that would provide Amnesty to DACA recipients (a position opposed by Congressman King), Bannon warned that doing so could cost the GOP its House Majority and lead to the ascension of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a prospect which should fill all who consider themselves to be conservatives with dread. In the Post story, King characterizes Bannon’s important, off-the-record remarks to House Republicans as follows: “In a morning session with about two dozen conservatives, Bannon warned that passing a bill could cost the GOP control of the House in November. ‘It came down to the central point he delivered, which is — if any bill passes the House with amnesty in it, it fractures the party and the base would be disgusted, and it could cost the party the majority in the fall,’ said Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa), recounting Bannon’s words. ‘The country knows what amnesty is. To restore the Rule of Law would be impossible if it is destroyed by putting amnesty into law.’ King said many of the lawmakers at the session were receptive to Bannon’s argument.” If elements within the GOP are successful in passing an Amnesty for illegal aliens, knowing it will likely cost the House Republicans their majority, these elements will say a lot of things to justify their unwanted assault on the Rule of Law. One thing that they will not be able to say, however, is “we weren’t warned.” ###
06.08.2018	Outrage: 66% of DACA Recipients who admitted to crimes got DACA permits anyway Washington, D.C.- As the political world buzzes over the sad possibility that rogue Republicans could join with a united Democratic caucus to deliver Amnesty to illegal aliens, Congressman Steve King, an opponent of Amnesty, asks a question that is often intentionally obscured by Amnesty/DACA supporters: “Who are DACA recipients?” To watch, click this link. Excerpts Below: King, who is believed to be the only Member of Congress to have examined the federal government’s DACA application data, shared some answers with the American public on the House floor today. The answers uncovered by King’s examination of the government’s data are troubling. The conclusion: even under the lenient pro-Amnesty standards established in the unconstitutional DACA program by Barack Obama, of the 817,798 potential recipients of DACA related Amnesty, 781,951 should be disqualified for not meeting the established standards. Infuriatingly, the data even shows that 66% of those who self-reported criminality received a DACA permit anyway. To watch, click this link. Included in this figure are over 564,103 DACA applicants (68.9%) who declared no data regarding educational history. In addition there are another 179,719 who have no diploma and “may or may not be” in school. The pro-Amnesty crowd portrays DACA recipients as valedictorians; the truth is almost exactly the opposite. Also included are approximately 135,000 individuals that fall within prime recruitment age for violent criminal gangs such as the notorious Mexican gang, MS-13. To watch, click this link. To watch, click this link. Why the rush by some in Congress to undermine the Rule of Law by granting an Amnesty to illegal aliens who aren’t even meeting the minimum standards established by an unconstitutional Obama-era program designed to provide them with an executive Amnesty? Those rushing to back Amnesty have some explaining to do to the American people. ###
06.07.2018	H.R. 3 is the largest rescissions package in history of the Impoundment Control Act. Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 3, the Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act. The legislation cuts approximately $15 billion in unspent federal funds that have previously been appropriated. Under the authority granted to him by the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (ICA), President Trump submitted a request to eliminate these funds to Congress on May 8. The legislation passed the House of Representatives on a vote of 210-206. “I am a fiscal conservative who believes our budget will only be great again when our budget is balanced again,” said King. “That’s why I was pleased to cast a historic vote for the President’s requested $15 billion in rescissions, the largest rescissions package ever submitted to Congress under the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act. This is a good first step towards reclaiming fiscal sanity, and it is a powerful reminder than Congress is obligated not only to cut spending but also to revisit and safeguard the taxpayer’s previously appropriated money.” Background: Rescissions are reductions of funding previously provided for in law. H.R. 3’s nearly $15 billion rescissions package is the largest in the history of the ICA. In some instances, funding identified for elimination by President Trump for has been sitting idle in accounts for years. The magnitude of these historic spending cuts is apparent when one considers the history of successful rescission proposals. From 1974 to 2000, Congress approved a total of $25 billion in rescission requests. Today’s package included rescissions of over $14.7 billion all by itself. ###
06.07.2018	“Mr. Sessions is quietly and unassumingly building one of the most successful records of conservative accomplishment ever seen at the DOJ.” Washington, D.C.- In case you missed it, the Washington Times published an op-ed column today written by Congressman Steve King praising Attorney General Jeff Sessions for his work to advance President Trump’s conservative agenda. The op-ed is entitled “An Underappreciated Attorney General” and may be read in full at this link. In the column, Congressman King puts particular emphasis on Attorney General Sessions’ efforts to defend the religious freedoms Americans enjoy under the First Amendment to the Constitution. Sessions’ defense of religious liberty was recently a factor in the United States Supreme Court’s 7-2 decision defending a Colorado baker’s right to have his sincerely held Christian beliefs respected by a hostile and biased State Civil Rights Commission that attempted to sanction the baker for refusing to make a wedding cake for a same-sex ceremony. King also noted that Sessions’ tenure at the Department of Justice has been marked by a renewed respect within the Department of Justice for the Rule of Law, by a principled commitment to maintaining the highest ethical standards even in the face of criticism, and by extensive efforts to secure our borders and to place Constitutionalists in the federal courts. Excerpts of Congressman King’s op-ed appear below: “Attorney General Jeff Sessions has his critics. That’s not unusual: Mr. Sessions is a conservative in good standing and one expects the angriest voices of the left to engage in histrionic screeching over his tenure at the Department of Justice. These criticisms can be discounted as little more that the guttural roar of rejected and defeated partisans. Sometimes, though, criticisms are levied at the attorney general from traditional allies, up to and including his boss, President Donald Trump. That’s a shame. Conservatives should know better than to attack one of our own. If I may rework Antony’s speech in Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar,” I would go so far as to say the political right should come here to praise Sessions, not to bury him.” . . . “Mr. Sessions remains the most underappreciated member of Mr. Trump’s Cabinet. With little fanfare, Mr. Sessions is quietly and unassumingly building one of the most successful records of conservative accomplishment ever seen at the DOJ.” . . . “I could talk about Mr. Sessions’ accomplishments broadly. He has restored the primacy of the Rule of Law to the manner in which the Department of Justice carries out its affairs. He has an earnest belief that after 8 years of a DOJ presided over by an Obama appointee who was held in contempt of Congress, the American people deserve an attorney general who adheres to the highest ethical standards, even, and particularly, when he will face criticism for doing so. He has taken extensive actions to advance President Trump’s agenda to secure our borders, and to shepherd men and women devoted to upholding our Constitution onto our federal courts. Instead, I’d like to talk about Mr. Sessions’ work on an issue that isn’t as glamorous as those above. Like the man who champions it, it is an issue that seemingly flies beneath the radar. It is the issue of every American’s First Amendment right to religious freedom.” . . . “With Mr. Sessions leading a legal cavalry charge, the baker just won a resounding 7-2 victory at the United States Supreme Court. Mr. Sessions’ actions helped reaffirm everyone’s fundamental First Amendment right to practice their faith in accordance with the dictates of their conscience and their understanding of their religion’s teachings.” . . . “Attorney General Jeff Sessions is a man who understands the emphasis the left has placed on ridding the public square of all semblance of religious belief, and he understands how much we all will lose if they get their way. He is also the rare man who is not only fighting back against this cultural tide, but is affirmatively posting wins that safeguard the liberties we prize.” ###
06.06.2018	Local Banker Changed Lives; Fondly Remembered During Small Business Committee Hearing Washington, D.C.- On June 6, 2018 Congressman Steve King participated in a House Small Business Committee Hearing examining “Millennials and the Gig Economy.” During the committee examination of this issue, the difficulty many Millennials experience in obtaining business financing was discussed. It was during this discussion that King was prompted to remember the positive impact Leo J. Remmes, a banker for 32 ½ years at the Crawford County Trust and Savings Bank in Denison, Iowa, had on the lives of many in his community. It was Mr. Remmes who approved a loan in 1975 that allowed an aspiring small businessman named Steve King to purchase the bulldozer with which he was able to start a successful construction company that is now taking care of the third generation of the King family. In this video, King shares his thanks for the decision that Mr. Remmes made 43 years ago. Mr. Remmes’s willingness to take “a bit of a risk” on a young entrepreneur holds many lessons for aspiring entrepreneurs that still apply today. King: Leo Remmes Changed Lives "I’m sitting here thinking how things might have changed. I was a young entrepreneur in 1975 when I looked around and I came home and told my wife ‘Today, I am a man.’ And she looked at me with that bored ‘Well, what else is new?’ Well, actually, it was new because I had decided to take responsibility for our lives together." “A couple of months later, I managed to convince a banker to loan me 100% to buy an old, beaten up bulldozer, and the rest is, I guess, a long saga of ups and downs that today is a second generation company that’s, I think, very successful, at least by my standards.” “And a week ago, Monday, the banker that loaned me that money and took a bit of risk to do so passed away and we celebrated his life and how many lives he changed with that financing. Just through the things that that enabled me to do, from a company that’s spreading out and taking care of the third generation of my family, the politics that flowed from it, the career that flowed from it, my message to them was that there are a lot of us who had a wonderful life because of the one wonderful thing that he did.” The obituary for Mr. Leo J. Remmes can be read here. His survivors include his wife, Ruth, and their four sons and families. ###
06.01.2018	Josh Heather of Onawa will have his artwork, “Iowa Farm,” displayed in U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King announces that Josh Heather of Onawa has been selected as this year’s winner to represent Iowa’s 4th Congressional District in the Congressional Art Competition. Heather, whose artwork is entitled “Iowa Farm,” submitted a visually striking black and white print of an Iowa farmstead on linoleum block, a challenging medium with which to work. Heather’s winning entry is pictured below. “I am always astounded by the enormous amount of young, artistic talent that we have in the 4th District, and I appreciate the efforts of everyone who entered the competition,” said King. “Choosing a winner was not an easy task, but Josh Heather’s ‘Iowa Farm’ stood out because of its Iowa-themed content and because of the intricacy and detail it contains. I congratulate Josh, and I look forward to seeing his artwork hanging on display in the U.S. Capitol.” “Iowa Farm” by Josh Heather Each year, the Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” is sponsored by Members of the United States House of Representatives through the Congressional Institute to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in each Member’s congressional district. This competition is open to all high-school students and the winner’s art piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. The 4th District winner, along with one guest, will be flown to Washington, D.C. for the Congressional celebration courtesy of Southwest Airlines. ###
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C.- In case you missed it, Congressman Steve King appeared as a guest on CNN’s "Wolf " in which he discussed important stories in today’s headlines with the show’s host, Wolf Blitzer. During his appearance, Congressman King discussed the announcement of the cancellation of President Trump’s intended summit meeting with North Korea’s rogue dictator, Kim Jong Un. King also discussed his recently introduced "Mayor Libby Schaaf Act of 2018" (HR. 5884) under which government officials who tip off illegal aliens about imminent federal immigration enforcement efforts could face up to 5 years in prison. To watch the video, click the above image or click here. Excerpts: King on North Korea Summit Cancellation: “I’m disappointed by this action that has taken place. I don’t think the President’s judgment is incorrect on this. If you have Kim Jong Un insulting Mike Pence…I mean, Mike Pence is anything but what he is described by the dictator from North Korea…I think the best thing that can come from it now is to tamp these fires down, flatten it out a little bit, cool things off and let’s see if we can get back and restart some kind of negotiations. I do give President Trump a lot of credit for opening up these negotiations and being willing to accept the invitation to that was offered to him to negotiate with Kim Jong Un…That changed the dynamics and you can see through this to the point where perhaps one day we see a denuclearized Korean peninsula and perhaps the 38th Parallel gets torn down and we can see Korea become like Germany did after November 9, 1989.”. . . “I am still hopeful that we find a way to denuclearize that peninsula without war and that one day that 38th Parallel will be torn down and they can all be a free people. South Korea is so prosperous. They have such a work ethic, such an educational foundation. . .That same thing could be in store for North Korea if we could just get past Kim Jong Un.” King on the Mayor Libby Schaaf Act: “The Constitution of the United States, which California signed onto, is the Supreme Law of the Land. It specifically says so in the Constitution. You don’t get to trump federal law by coming up with an idea at the local level…For 20 plus years it has been against the law for local jurisdictions to establish Sanctuary City policies. Because we have not done an effective job of enforcing that, we have seen this go to some 300 or more jurisdictions around the country…Now the entire state of California is a sanctuary state. They are defying federal law, and they believe that they have a state’s right to defy federal law. Not when it’s an enumerated power.”. . . “[Libby Schaaf] is the Mayor of the 10th most dangerous city in the United States of America, which doesn’t comport very well with the assertion she knows better than I do about the safety in the streets…She blew the warning whistle off and saved several hundred [illegal aliens] from being incarcerated. How much crime is committed as a result of that? The price for that is paid by the victims of crime, like Kate Steinle.” ###
05.24.2018	Passage of NDAA a major step to Rebuilding, Maintaining, and Strengthening our Armed Forces Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following statement following his vote in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The NDAA is important national security legislation that provides authorization for funds to be spent on behalf of our nation’s troops, as well as authorization for funds to be spent on rebuilding, maintaining, and strengthening our military capabilities. The NDAA passed the House of Representatives today on a vote of 351-66. “President Obama neglected to serve the needs of our military for years, and the result has been a decrease in America’s military strength that the National Defense Authorization Act was written to address,” said King. “President Trump promised to rebuild our military, and this bill does so. It contains the largest pay raise in nine years for our troops, and it provides resources for additional aircraft, tanks, and submarines. We live in a dangerous world, and it is imperative that America’s enemies know that we have a military that is fully capable of meeting any demand that is placed upon it.” Some highlights of the NDAA include: • Fully funds 2.6% pay raise for the troops – the highest increase in nine years • The FY19 NDAA provides resources to rebuild our military and provides additional aircraft, ships, and systems for our warfighter, including: 77 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, 135 M1 Abram tanks, two Virginia-class attack submarines fully funds the Columbia-class ballistic missile submarine and the B-21 Raider bomber programs, and accelerates construction of a fourth Ford-class aircraft carrier • Supports Afghan forces fighting the Taliban and other terrorist organizations, authorizes the Counter ISIS Train and Equip fund to support partners and allies combatting ISIS, and continues to support our counterterrorism mission • Modernizes our nuclear deterrent and provides necessary funding to support missile defense to counter threats from Iran and North Korea ###
05.23.2018	Washington, D.C.- On May 23, 2018 Congressman Steve King appeared as a guest on the Fox Business Network’s "Varney & Co." During his appearance, Congressman King discussed his recently introduced "Mayor Libby Schaaf Act of 2018" (HR. 5884). Under the "Mayor Libby Schaaf Act," government officials who tip off illegal aliens about imminent federal immigration enforcement efforts could face up to 5 years in prison. The bill was drafted in response to the actions of Mayor Libby Schaaf from Oakland, California. Mayor Schaaf is infamous for tipping off her community to an impending immigration raid by federal ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) agents. Her actions may have allowed up to 800 illegal aliens to escape. In this segment, King answers questions from the show's host, Stuart Varney, about this important and necessary legislation. King on the Constitutionality of the “Mayor Libby Schaaf Act”: "If you harbor someone in your basement to hide them from ICE, that violates [existing] law. And if you use your position as a public official, in a blanket form, to help hundreds avoid the law, that's clearly obstruction of justice. I don't think this would ever make its way to the Supreme Court, but if it did they would shake this thing out and conclude that public officials do not have a right to undermine the supreme law of the land which is federal law." On King's motivation for drafting the bill: "When I saw that event with Libby Schaaf out there in Oakland...It's revolting to me to think that a public official would conduct themselves in that fashion: to endanger not only ICE agents, but every law enforcement agent that has to round them up afterwards, and the people of Oakland, which is the 10th most dangerous city in the country." On the need for the “Mayor Libby Schaaf Act” and the legislation’s prospects for passage: "I read down through the obstruction of justice statute, and there are about 15 different components there. I found a couple that might apply, a strong prosecutor might apply them, but I didn't think it spoke directly to what she had done. And so that's why I wrote the bill, and I think that we can pass it off the floor of the House." ###
05.21.2018	King Introduces “Mayor Libby Schaaf Act” Criminalizing Sanctuary City Obstruction of Federal Immigration Enforcement Efforts Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, announces that he has introduced legislation targeting state and local officials in Sanctuary Cities who act to obstruct Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) efforts to enforce federal immigration laws. King’s bill, HR 5884- the “Mayor Libby Schaaf Act of 2018,” is named after the infamous Mayor of Oakland who recently tipped off illegal aliens about impending ICE raids in her city. Acting ICE Director Thomas Homan has stated that 800 criminal aliens were able to avoid capture because of the public warning she gave. Homan has also compared Mayor Schaaf’s actions to those of a “gang lookout yelling 'police' when a police cruiser comes in the neighborhood.” President Trump has recently suggested that Attorney General Jeff Sessions prosecute Mayor Schaaf for her actions. “Sanctuary politicians are placing the lives of citizens and law enforcement officers in jeopardy by giving illegal aliens warnings about impending ICE actions in local jurisdictions,” said King. “This is obstruction of justice, and Americans do not have to put up with it. Under my bill, government officials who tip off illegal aliens about imminent federal immigration enforcement efforts could face up to 5 years in prison. I want lawless, Sanctuary City politicians to hear this message clearly: if you obstruct ICE, you are going to end up in the cooler.” Although many have expressed outrage over the actions of lawless Sanctuary City politicians like Mayor Libby Schaaf, there is some debate in the legal community as to whether the existing federal code effectively criminalizes the obstructionist behavior in which these individuals willfully and selfishly engage. Passage of King’s “Mayor Libby Schaaf Act of 2018” will remove all doubt as to the criminality of the underlying conduct in these cases. Mayor Schaaf has previously proclaimed her willingness to go to jail for her actions. The time has come to ensure the federal government has the tools it needs to call her virtue signaling bluff. ###
05.18.2018	Congressman King voted in favor of passing the Farm Bill Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, delivered special order remarks concerning the failure of the Farm Bill in the House of Representatives today. King, who voted in favor of passing the Farm Bill, spoke in strong defense of the 4th District of Iowa, the leading agricultural district in the United States. To view Congressman King’s remarks in their entirety, click the above image or click here. In his remarks, King praised changes made to the SNAP program in the Farm Bill. These changes place work requirements of 20 hours a week on some food stamp recipients. "20 Hours a week. Is that too much to ask, Mr. Speaker? For someone to put in 20 hours a week in order to eat for free all the other hours of the week? I think it's entirely reasonable. Furthermore, all work has dignity. All work has honor. All work enhances the work ethic and the character of the people doing it." King criticized House Democrats, who contributed to the defeat of the Farm Bill through unanimous opposition to this important legislation. "We just need some Democrats who support work and we would've passed this bill here today. But looking at the roster, of those that voted no, every Democrat voted no on this Farm Bill. And they didn't vote no because they didn't like what was in it on the Ag side; they voted 'No' because there were work requirements in it on the food stamp side." The Democrats are not solely to blame for the bill’s failure, however. As King notes, some Republicans attempted to leverage the Farm Bill for a vote on an immigration bill containing Amnesty provisions. "We are here today with a Farm Bill that went down on this floor. It went down because no Democrat supports work. It went down because some Republicans wanted to leverage this Farm bill in order to get a bill out on the floor to vote on that has within it two components of Amnesty." King remains adamantly against the passage of Amnesty legislation, citing Amnesty’s ruinous effects on the Rule of Law. "I want to restore the Rule of Law, pass the Farm Bill, and I want to get people back to work. And I want to have allies on this floor that support work whether they are Democrats or Republicans." ###
05.17.2018	Amendment Making Drainage Districts Eligible for EQIP Contracts Added to the Farm Bill Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, announces that he has added an amendment to the Farm Bill that strengthens the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) by authorizing drainage districts to be eligible to compete for EQIP contracts. EQIP is a voluntary conservation program run by the USDA’s Natural Resources Conservation Service that provides agricultural producers with financial resources and help to plan and implement conservation practices that improve the quality of soil, air, and water. Congressman King’s amendment also garnered the backing of Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson, who joined the debate to speak in support of the King amendment. “There are roughly 2,000 drainage districts in the state of Iowa, but the important part of this is that we’re concerned about water quality, water management, and nutrient management.” To watch the debate and voice vote on King’s amendment, click here. The House of Representatives began consideration of the Farm Bill yesterday afternoon. The King amendment passed by voice vote on Wednesday evening. The Farm Bill is expected to receive a vote on final passage in the House on Friday, May 18. Prior to today’s introduction of his EQIP amendment, King successfully placed the text of his “Protect Interstate Commerce Act” (PICA) in the Farm Bill during Agriculture Committee markup of the legislation. King’s PICA legislation is designed to end unconstitutional efforts by some states to regulate the means of production or manufacture of agricultural goods in other states. As one example, the State of California is attempting to prevent the sale of eggs that are raised in any state which does not adhere to California’s burdensome regulations governing cage sizes. Such restrictions are an unconstitutional infringement on Congress’s constitutional authority to regulate interstate commerce. King’s legislation is necessary because without the protections PICA provides, producers from states that do not comply with the shifting regulatory whims of a state like California would lose access to important markets. ###
05.16.2018	Farm Bill Contains King’s PICA, Increased funding for Ag Export Programs, FMD Vaccine Bank Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, releases the following video of remarks he made during House debate on the Farm Bill. The Farm Bill, H.R. 2, was taken up for consideration this afternoon. In his remarks, King placed special emphasis on the Farm Bill's inclusion of legislation he drafted, the Protect Interstate Commerce Act (PICA). PICA protects, preserves, and restores the Commerce Clause by ensuring states cannot use regulatory hurdles to regulate the interstate trade of agricultural products. King's legislation was added to the bill via a voice vote during committee markup of the legislation. To view Congressman King’s remarks, click the image or click here. King highlights the Farm Bill's protection of the Price Loss Coverage (PLC), the Agricultural Risk Coverage (ARC), and the Crop Insurance programs. "All of that keeps our families on the farm," said King. "And if we don't have that, market fluctuations take them off." King’s comments also focus attention on important Farm Bill provisions providing increased funding for the Market Access Program and the Foreign Market Development program. These programs are remarkably efficient in opening export markets to American agricultural goods. Finally, King concluded his remarks by praising Agriculture Committee Chairman Conaway for including provisions in the underlying legislation creating and funding the Foot-and-Mouth Disease Vaccine Bank and for including needed reforms to the SNAP welfare program. ###
05.14.2018	Book Recounts Story of Efforts to Save Tanzania’s Miracle Kids Washington, D.C.- In case you missed it, on 5/12/18, KTIV’s (Sioux City, IA) Matt Breen was joined by Dr. Steve Meyer, of the Siouxland Tanzania Educational Medical Ministries (STEMM) to discuss Meyer’s book, “Answer the Call.” The book recounts the chain of miracles that was needed to save the lives of Tanzania’s Miracle Kids. The Miracle Kids (Wilson, Sadia, and Doreen) were the only three survivors of a horrific school bus crash in Tanzania nearly one year ago. Their injuries were so severe that Tanzania's medical resources were not sufficient to the task of saving these children's lives. Dr. Meyer, a STEMM missionary, knew it would take a miracle to save these children. So he began making calls for help to people he knew. Among those answering these calls were Congressman Steve King, the staff of Mercy Medical Center, and Rev. Franklin Graham of Samaritan's Purse. To view the clip, click the image above or click here. In the above clip, Dr. Meyer acknowledges those who were there to "Answer the Call" to action for these children. Dr. Meyer’s “Answer the Call” is a story of miracles and God's blessings. Fittingly, Meyer also provides an inspirational update as to the health of one of these children, Doreen, who despite having been paralyzed has now recovered and is playing soccer and going on 4 mile hikes! It is yet another miracle in the chain of miracles surrounding Tanzania’s Miracle Kids. Congressman Steve King welcomes Tanzanian Miracle Kid Wilson home following Wilson’s care and recovery in Sioux City. Last June, King introduced Americans to the Tanzania Miracle Kids during a speech from the floor of the House of Representatives. King’s remarks can be viewed in the entirety here. ###
05.11.2018	Washington, D.C.- In case you missed it, on 5/10/18, KCCI (Des Moines, IA) ran this news story focusing on the recent Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Raids in Mt. Pleasant, Iowa in which 32 illegal aliens were arrested. KCCI interviewed Congressman Steve King, a "staunch supporter of deportation" who "believes that following the law should come first." To view the interview, click on the image or click here. In the interview, King supports the ICE raids and the need for deportations. King also advocates for the need to effectively enforce our border laws, and to put unemployed Americans to work in the jobs taken by illegal aliens. "We should be putting Americans to work instead of paying them welfare. Everyone that you can get off welfare and put to work, you get a two-fer. This is what the public has asked for," says King. KCCI then interviewed Iowans to ask for their views on King's positions. The station's conclusion: "Iowans that we spoke with agreed with him." ###
05.10.2018	“Aliens who overstay are aliens who are going to pay.” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice, announces that he has introduced legislation to target the problem of visa overstays by nonimmigrant aliens, such as students, temporary workers, and tourists. King’s legislation, HR 6089 - “The E-bonding for Immigration Integrity Act of 2018,” requires the posting of a bond of as much as $10,000 prior to the entry into the United States of an alien seeking a visa. Should the alien overstay his or her visa, the bonded funds would be automatically and electronically forfeited to the United States Treasury and could be used by the Department of Homeland Security for immigration enforcement programs, including expenditures such as the construction of a border wall or the hiring of additional border patrol agents. “My bonding legislation sends a clear message to any foreign national thinking about overstaying their visa: aliens who overstay are aliens who are going to pay,” said King. “In 2016, at least 629,000 aliens overstayed their visas according to the Department of Homeland Security. If my legislation had been in effect then, over $6.2 billion would have been forfeited by those who violated the terms of their temporary entry into our country. I know the construction industry, and $6.2 billion would pay for a lot of the wall we need on our border with Mexico.” Included in King’s bill are provisions that: • Require visa-seeking nonimmigrant aliens from countries with a visa overstay rate of more than 1.5% to post a bond prior to being issued a visa to enter the United States. • Place forfeited visa funds into an E-bond Enforcement Fund that would be used to ensure compliance and administer enforcement programs. • Require the DHS Secretary to issue a report to Congress on nonimmigrant alien visa overstay rates. Visa overstays present a significant national security threat to the United States. The New York Times has reported that two of the September 11 hijackers were individuals who had overstayed their entry visas. Requiring the pre-entry posting of a significant, forfeitable bond is viewed as an effective deterrent working to ensure that foreign nationals honor the terms of their conditional entry into the United States. ###
05.08.2018	To change the epidemic of drug abuse in the country, we will have to change the culture Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, releases this video of his exchange today with Administrator Robert Patterson of the Drug Enforcement Agency. Patterson was testifying during the House Judiciary Committee’s hearing examining “Challenges and Solutions in the Opioid Abuse Crisis.” To watch the video, click the above image or click here. During his questioning of Administrator Patterson, King discussed several topics that must be addressed to effectively deal with the opioid crisis in America. First, we must come to grips with the fact that there are over 11.5 million drug abusers in the United States. Next, we must acknowledge, as Administrator Patterson did, that the "vast majority" of illegal drugs in the United States come through Mexico. Administrator Patterson also testified that "almost all" illegal drug distribution chains in this country contain at least one link that is an illegal alien. Clearly, an effective strategy to end drug abuse must focus on securing the border. Finally, and most importantly, we must "change the culture in this country." One approach proposed by Congressman King to solve the epidemic of drug abuse would be enhanced drug testing in the workplace, in education, in the government, and of welfare recipients. Doing this would quickly expose the "dealers and stealers.” King is a leader in the effort to combat opioid abuse in America. In January, King was invited to the White House to participate in the bill signing ceremony for the INTERDICT Act, legislation that combats the opioid abuse epidemic by increasing U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s ability to detect and stop the flow of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids across America’s borders. For those who have been affected by opioid abuse, or who know people that are struggling with opioid addiction, Congressman King would like to take this opportunity to remind the public that the Iowa Department of Health has created an online tool that can be used to identify locations within the 4th Congressional District that can provide help. The tool is accessible at this link. ###
05.08.2018	April’s budget surplus largest in American history; Trump seeks return of $15 Billion to Treasury Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases this statement following the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) announcement that the month of April recorded the largest monthly budget surplus in American history. The CBO announcement coincides with today’s news that President Trump is seeking to use the budgetary rescissions process to return to the treasury $15 billion in previously appropriated funds that have not been spent. “The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has jump-started the economy, and the Congressional Budget Office has the data that proves it,” said King. “April just posted a $218 billion surplus, a tally that makes it the biggest monthly budget surplus in American history. In fact, this total far exceeded the CBO’s own initial estimates, because CBO underestimated the impact the new tax law would have on stimulating economic activity and increasing incomes.” “When you combine April’s record numbers with the President’s request today to return $15 billion to the treasury, the benefits of having a shrewd businessman like Donald Trump in the White House become clear. President Trump is running record budget surpluses and safeguarding taxpayer funds, and he is Making America’s Economy Great Again. Our budget will be fully great when it is fully balanced.” ###
05.02.2018	Congressman commends IA General Assembly for Heartbeat Bill vote that paves way for challenge to Roe v Wade. Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice, releases the following statement commending the Iowa General Assembly for passing the nation’s strongest pro-life legislation. Senate File 359 protects babies with a detectable heartbeat from being aborted. The legislation passed both chambers of the Iowa legislature early this morning, and now awaits a signature from Governor Kim Reynolds to become law. “With their votes, the Iowa legislature has heroically placed our state in the forefront of efforts to protect innocent, unborn life from the abortionists,” said King. “It was a deeply moral and principled vote, and it reflects our shared Iowa values by ensuring that if a heartbeat is detected, the baby must be protected. Gov. Reynolds is the most pro-life governor in Iowa’s history and I have confidence in her and I anticipate this bill will become law.” “It was a pleasure supporting the efforts of members of Iowa’s House and Senate to secure passage of Senate File 359. Legislators share my belief, and the belief of the many pro-life organizations that joined in this effort, that the time is right for a challenge to Roe v. Wade to occur. On the federal level, we have a pro-life House of Representatives, a pro-life United States Senate, a pro-life President, and a United States Supreme Court that may well be receiving a new Constitutionalist Justice in the near future. We should pair a federal Heartbeat Bill with the Iowa Heartbeat Bill to set the stage for the complete overturn of the Supreme Court’s terrible Roe v. Wade decision.” On the federal level, Congressman King’s Heartbeat Protection Act has 171 cosponsors, and the support of 162 pro-life organizations and leaders. On the House floor, Congressman King recently detailed his “Four Open Windows” strategy for outlawing abortion. To watch the video, please click here. ###
04.26.2018	Powerful Testimony a Key Moment in Social Media Censorship Hearing Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice, releases the following video of his questioning of Diamond and Silk (Lynnette Hardaway and Rochelle Richardson) during today’s Judiciary Committee hearing examining filtering of conservative viewpoints by social media companies. King invited the two popular conservative commentators, who are famous for their unabashed support for President Trump, to the hearing to offer their first hand experiences with viewpoint suppression on social media platforms such as Facebook and YouTube. King has been working to arrange this hearing since last Fall. King- My first thoughts are this: in a situation like Jim Hoft and Gateway Pundit, the 4th most influential conservative pundit throughout the last election cycle, watching his traffic be cut to one-eleventh of what it was just on Facebook alone. And I don’t see that Jim Hoft has as much of a television presence, perhaps, as Diamond and Silk have. So I wanted to ask you, Ms. Hardaway, or you, Ms. Richardson, if you didn’t have a spot on FOX News, if you had to rely on just watching your traffic go down on YouTube, and on Facebook, and on Twitter, and wherever else, would you have a chance to have a voice to express this? Or could it be that because you had another outlet this issue came up far enough that now America is watching? Diamond and Silk- Absolutely. Because we had another outlet, because the Republicans, certain Republicans, spoke out about it and took up for the little voices like ourselves is how this came to light. If not, when [Facebook] deemed us “unsafe to the community” and they told us we couldn’t appeal it, we would’ve been out. And this is what happens, oftentimes, with people in our country, particularly minorities, where these big giants they take and they put their feet on your neck. They pull the rug right up from under you, and then dare you to move. To watch the video, please click the image above or click here. In addition to the testimony of Diamond and Silk, Congressman King introduced additional evidence into the record. King submitted a written statement from Jim Hoft, the conservative writer behind the highly influential “The Gateway Pundit” website describing how manipulation of computer algorithms has adversely affected traffic to his website. Congressman King also introduced an April 23 article written by Joy Pullman of the “The Federalist” describing Google’s refusal to do business with a Lutheran publisher “because of the faith we express on our website.” Although they were invited, representatives from Facebook, Twitter, and Google declined to appear. As a result of their decisions, Americans were deprived of an opportunity to see these social media companies respond to Congress’s questions about their practices. ###
04.25.2018	Congressman King Speaks in Support of HR 1689, the Private Property Rights Protection Act Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice, releases the following video of statements he made in support of HR 1689, the Private Property Rights Protection Act. King’s remarks occurred during a Judiciary Committee mark-up of the legislation this afternoon. Following King’s remarks, the committee voted to send the legislation to the House floor. To watch the video, please click the image above or click here. Excerpts: “When [Kelo] came down it was shocking to those of us who read the Constitution. ‘Nor shall private property be taken for public use without just compensation.’ It’s very, very clear. Our Founding Fathers had great reverence for property. Life, liberty, and property.” . . . “The effect of that decision was, as Chairman Goodlatte said, to strike three words from the 5th Amendment: ‘for public use’. And I was livid at that decision of the Supreme Court. I couldn’t think it could be more starkly wrong.”. . . “ ‘For public use’ is an important clause within the 5th amendment, and it needs to be restored within the 5th amendment.”. . . “I hosted a breakfast with Justice Scalia . . .and he said he ‘expected the Kelo decision, at some point, to be reversed by the Court’.” . . . “I look forward to that day, and we’re doing what we can do this day to restore as many property rights as we can legislatively.” ###
04.24.2018	Offers Amendments Expanding Broadcast Choice, Providing Davis-Bacon Relief to FAA Reauthorization Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King announces that he has submitted two amendments to H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, for House Rules Committee consideration today. The first of King’s amendments seeks to expand broadcast choice in the nation’s airports by ensuring that the television equipment in an airport’s terminal is not owned exclusively by broadcast/cable television news networks. The amendment would also prohibit airport owners or operators and broadcast/cable television news networks from making agreements in which the content on airport television equipment is controlled. “It’s time that travelers in airports were allowed to turn the channel on CNN,” said King. “My amendment would allow greater broadcast choice for the nation’s travelers by eliminating CNN’s efforts to create an ‘airport monopoly’ through the use of agreements that restrict content to only its programs. Competition is good for the marketplace of cable news. Competitive pressures will encourage every network to produce a quality product that people will watch because they choose to do so, not because they are a captive audience forced to do so.” King’s second offered amendment would ensure that no funds made available by the FAA Reauthorization Act could be used to enforce prevailing wage requirements required under the Davis-Bacon Act. King is the recognized leader on efforts to repeal Davis-Bacon, having offered legislation to repeal the burdensome and costly prevailing wage legislation since 2005. King’s ongoing efforts to repeal Davis-Bacon were recently profiled by conservative columnist George Will. ###
04.23.2018	Is Popular Pro-Trump Pair “Exhibit A” Exposing Facebook’s Censorship of Conservatives? Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Judiciary Committee and a conservative user of both Twitter and Facebook, released the following statement announcing that Diamond and Silk, two prominent social media political commentators, have accepted an invitation to testify before Congress on Thursday, April 26. The pair, whose support for Donald Trump has been a fixture of their political commentary, was recently censored on Facebook after Facebook inexplicably deemed their popular commentary to be “unsafe to the community.” Diamond and Silk have a following of over 1.6 million people on Facebook, and were invited at Congressman King’s request to testify at the upcoming Judiciary Committee hearing examining “Filtering Practices of Social Media Platforms.” King has been pushing the Judiciary Committee to schedule a hearing on this topic since last fall. “Diamond and Silk are a great American success story, and many consider this pro-Trump pair’s Facebook censorship to be ‘Exhibit A’ in the argument that social media platforms frequently filter out conservative viewpoints,” said King. “Diamond and Silk’s commentaries are not unsafe, and Facebook’s suggestion that they are is so ridiculous it strikes many as a pretext used to target Diamond and Silk’s mainstream beliefs. Facebook’s unjustifiable action shows that if anyone should feel ‘unsafe’ on social media, it is those who wish to express conservative political beliefs that run contrary to those of the liberal, social-justice activists that work behind the scenes at Facebook, Google, and Twitter.” Also testifying at the hearing will be Representative Marsha Blackburn (R-TN). Blackburn is a pro-life conservative who recently had a political advertisement touting her efforts to stop Planned Parenthood’s sale of baby body parts blocked by Twitter. Representatives from Facebook, Google and Twitter have also been invited to appear. Details of the hearing are below: When: Thursday, April 26 at 10:00 AM Where: 2141 Rayburn House Office Building What: Judiciary Hearing- “Filtering Practices of Social Media Platforms” Witnesses: Panel I: The Honorable Marsha Blackburn, 7th District of Tennessee, United States House of Representatives Panel II: Facebook (invited) Google (invited) Twitter (invited) Panel III: Diamond and Silk, Social Media Personalities Ms. Corynne McSherry, Legal Director, Electronic Frontier Foundation Mr. David Chavern, Chief Executive Officer, News Media Alliance Professor Ari Waldman, Associate Professor of Law, Director, Innovation Center for Law and Technology, New York Law School ###
04.18.2018	Washington, D.C.- In case you missed it, Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, is sharing a link to an editorial entitled “Our Opinion: King shares fears of China trade war impact on agriculture” that was written by the Sioux City Journal’s editorial board and published in today’s newspaper. In the opinion of the Journal’s editorial board “as representative for Iowa’s largely rural 4th Congressional District in the U.S. house, Steve King should be a leader in pressuring the administration of President Trump for stronger support of Agriculture. In media interviews, meetings with Trump administration figures and correspondence with the president, he’s doing exactly that.” (Emphasis added.) The Sioux City Journal’s editorial board was especially struck by King’s efforts to discourage President Trump from pursuing a course of action that would result in the imposition of retaliatory tariffs on Iowa’s agricultural exports. King’s invocation of the 1980’s Farm Crisis, a crisis that was kicked-off with President Jimmy Carter’s misguided decision to embargo grain sold to the former Soviet Union, was singled out by the Journal’s editors as a successful example of King’s public persuasion efforts, while King was also praised for joining a letter to President Trump expressing his desire that the president “address China’s trade practices in a manner that will avoid retaliation.” Excerpts: “We believe as representative for Iowa's largely rural 4th Congressional District in the U.S. House, Steve King should be a leader in pressuring the administration of President Trump for stronger support of agriculture. In media interviews, meetings with Trump administration figures and correspondence with the president, he's doing exactly that.” . . . “In properly stark terms, King told Neil Cavuto, host of Fox's "Your World with Neil Cavuto," in an April 6 interview he worries a U.S. trade war with China will result in a repeat of the 1980s farm crisis. "We saw what happened in the United States when Jimmy Carter on Jan. 4, 1980, embargoed the grain that was exported then to the Soviet Union," King said. "When that happened it put us into an economic tailspin for an entire decade. A lot of us here in the Midwest … I have many scars from that. I paid 22 percent interest. We sold out family farm after family farm. They stood there and cried together during the auction. And I don’t want to see that again, Neil, and I’m afraid we’re going in that direction.” . . . “Along with 45 congressional colleagues, King signed an April 13 letter to President Trump, warning him about the impact on agriculture of a trade war between the U.S. and China. The letter encouraged the administration "to work diligently in its negotiations with China to address China’s trade practices in a manner that will avoid retaliation, helping to return our agriculture industry to a state of certainty and back on the road to prosperity.” . . . “We urge King to keep up his commendable pressure on the Trump administration in support of agriculture and farmers in the 4th District and across Iowa.” To read the entire editorial (available on the Sioux City Journal’s website) click here. ###
04.18.2018	PICA ends out-of-state regulation of Iowa’s ag production; Farm Bill Now Heads to House Floor Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, announces that his “Protect Interstate Commerce Act”(PICA), H.R. 4879, has been included as a provision of H.R. 2, the “Farm Bill.” King offered PICA as an amendment during the House Agriculture Committee’s mark-up of H.R. 2 this afternoon. Shortly after the King amendment was placed in the legislation via a voice vote, the Committee voted 26-20 to send the “Farm Bill” to the floor of the House of Representatives, with King voting in favor of sending the amended bill to the floor. “I am grateful that my ‘Protect Interstate Commerce Act’ legislation was endorsed by the House Agriculture Committee and included in the Farm Bill,” said King. “States do not have the Constitutional authority to regulate interstate commerce; the United States Congress does. If California, or any other state, wants to regulate how products are made within their borders, they can do so. But Iowa’s producers should not be held hostage to the demands of California’s Vegan Lobby and California’s regulatory agencies.” King’s PICA legislation is designed to end unconstitutional efforts by some states to regulate the means of production of agricultural goods in other states. As one example, the State of California is attempting to prevent the sale of eggs that are raised in any state which does not adhere to California’s burdensome regulations governing cage sizes. Such restrictions are an unconstitutional infringement on Congress’s constitutional authority to regulate interstate commerce. King’s legislation is necessary because without the protections PICA provides, producers from states that do not comply with the shifting regulatory whims of a state like California would lose access to important markets. Watch: Congressman Steve King offers PICA Amendment to the “Farm Bill”: “Our Founding Fathers wanted to see a free trade zone between the original 13 colonies, because they knew that states would put up trade barriers, and put tariffs on at the state lines, if they did not have the Commerce Clause in the Constitution.” (To view, click here.) Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte urges adoption of King’s PICA legislation: “If you’re going to protect open American agriculture and competition, the King amendment is the way to go about doing that.” (To view, click here.) House Agriculture Committee Votes to Include King’s PICA Amendment in “Farm Bill”: (To view, click here.) For additional background information on Congressman King’s PICA legislation, please see here. ###
04.17.2018	Congressman King Pledges Continued Biofuel Support to Iowa Renewable Fuels Association Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, released the following statement after meeting today with members of the Iowa Renewable Fuels Association. During their meeting, Congressman King re-affirmed his strong support for biofuels, telling participants that he wants to see ethanol sold in blends that go “to, through, and beyond” the E15 mix. Other items discussed today included Congressman King’s concerns about the EPA’s questionable use of waivers to undercut the RFS standard, and the importance of allowing market forces to more accurately determine the price of RINS. “It was a pleasure meeting with members of the Iowa Renewable Fuels Association to discuss our shared interests in supporting the RFS and in advancing the growth of biofuels like ethanol,” said King. “There’s never anything less than E10 in my personal vehicle, and that’s been true for at least a generation. I support President Trump’s recent suggestion that E15 should be sold year-round, but I want more than that. I want ethanol sold to, through, and beyond the E15 blend. The market is ready for higher blends like E30, E50, and E85, and we should be aggressively promoting their use.” Congressman Steve King (center) meets today with members of the Iowa Renewable Fuels Association. Those meeting with King today included: Monte Shaw, Iowa Renewable Fuels Association; Grant Menke, Iowa Renewable Fuels Association; Rick Schwarck, Absolute Energy; Steve Roe, Little Sioux Corn Processors; Delayne Johnson, Quad City Corn Processors; and Pat Boyle, Homeland Energy Solutions. ###
04.17.2018	On Tax Day, Congressman King Touts “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” Benefits to Siouxland Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Small Business Committee, released the following statement in recognition of Tax Day, the April 15th date by which Americans must file their federal income taxes. This year, because the 15th fell on a Sunday, Tax Day fell on Tuesday, April 17. “The best vote I have cast in Congress was my vote in favor of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law this year by President Trump,” said King. “This vote ended the tax code as Americans have known it, and replaced it with one that has set the stage for an explosive economic expansion that will place us firmly on the road to Making America Great Again. Because we have enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, today is the last Tax Day that Americans will have to deal with the outdated provisions of a 30 year old code that no longer met our needs. ” “When he came to Iowa in March, Vice President Pence told Iowans that their families could expect to see an increase in their paychecks of $4,100 due to the new law. Already, companies throughout Siouxland, such as Tyson, Wells Fargo, and AT&T, have provided thousands of their employees with large bonuses directly attributable to the enactment of the bill. In addition to lowering individual tax rates, providing Death Tax relief, and increasing the size of many popular deductions, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act even repealed the unpopular ObamaCare Individual Mandate, a penalty that fell disproportionately on those earning less than $50,000/yr. Repealing this mandate is a key step in furtherance of my goal of eliminating ObamaCare as if it had never been enacted.” ###
04.16.2018	Ag Agenda Advancing as “Farm Bill” Scheduled for Mark-Up in House Agriculture Committee Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, is highlighting a link to H.R. 2, the “Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018” (The Farm Bill), that the public can use to read the Farm Bill prior to its scheduled mark-up on Wednesday, April 18. Constituents who would like to offer feedback on the Farm Bill are encouraged to visit Congressman King’s Facebook page (www.facebook.com/SteveKingIA) to provide their comments directly to the Congressman. In addition, Congressman King is releasing the text of a letter he cosigned urging President Donald Trump to “work diligently in its negotiations with China to address China’s trade practices in a manner that will avoid retaliation.” The signatories to the letter, which was sponsored by Rep. Kristi Noem of South Dakota, are concerned about the impacts proposed Chinese retaliatory tariffs of 15-25% will have on American agricultural exports when placed on goods such as pork, ethanol, soybeans, corn, and beef. Those signing the letter are encouraging the President to “take strong steps to end China’s unfair trade practices and other cheating,” but to do so in a way that “will avoid retaliation, helping to return our agriculture industry to a state of certainty and back on the road to prosperity.” The letter was signed by 46 Members of Congress and sent to the President late Friday afternoon. King has long warned the Administration about the possible adverse effects that retaliatory tariffs could have on American agriculture. Several months ago, King spoke with President Trump over the phone on the subject of retaliatory trade. In addition, King has also previously met to discuss his concerns over retaliatory trade measures with: United States Trade Representative, Robert Lighthizer; Deputy Assistant United States Trade Representative for Congressional Affairs, Cameron Bishop; Assistant United States Trade Representative for Congressional Affairs, Christopher Jackson; White House Trade Negotiator, Peter Navarro; and President Trump’s Chief Economist, Larry Kudlow. In all of these important discussions, King reminded those present of the 1980’s Farm Crisis, which was triggered by former President Jimmy Carter’s disastrous decision to embargo grain shipments to the former Soviet Union. King correctly noted to all participants that the Midwest has never fully recovered from the economic pain caused by Carter’s misguided actions. In March, King joined the rest of the Iowa delegation on a letter to President Trump requesting the President reconsider his intention to place tariffs on steel and aluminum. Text of letter: April 13, 2018 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, It is no secret that some of your strongest support comes from communities that rely on agriculture for survival. As representatives of districts with a heavy agriculture presence, we have been pleased about so much of your administration’s work related to agriculture. Your leadership and your administration have been vital in providing much-needed relief to Farm Country, from leading the charge on fundamental tax reform to your administration’s U.S.-China 100-Day Action plan securing access for U.S. beef producers to the Chinese market for the first time since 2003. We strongly support your efforts to open China to U.S. agriculture and to take strong steps to end China’s unfair trade practices and other cheating. All our hard-won gains in Farm Country, however, are at serious risk of being wiped away because China is threatening retaliation against American farmers. We appreciate your commitment to stand by U.S. farmers and ranchers in the face of these outrageous threats. We’ve seen many recent examples of China’s extraordinary threats to our agriculture community. On January 22, the United States Trade Representative announced safeguard tariffs on imported residential washing machines and solar cells and modules. Less than two weeks later, China launched a baseless antidumping and countervailing duty investigation on sorghum imports from the United States. This retaliatory measure is severe, given that a full 77 percent of U.S. sorghum exports are sold to China, with a value of $1 billion. Similarly, on March 22, you approved tariffs on imported steel and aluminum under Section 232. That very day, China again took retaliatory measures against America’s agriculture exports, proposing tariffs of 15 percent on agricultural goods such as apples, nuts, ethanol, and wine, and a 25 percent tariff on U.S. pork exports. With U.S. pork exports worth $1.1 billion last year, this reprisal will substantially damage a very important industry. Most recently, less than 11 hours following the announcement of the Administration’s proposed Section 301 product list, China countered with proposed 25 percent tariffs on agricultural goods such as soybeans, corn, frozen orange juice, wheat, and beef. Soybean exports are worth $14 billion to an agriculture economy already enduring historically tough times. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue said recently that farmers are the “tip of the spear when it comes to retaliatory measures” and you have acknowledged that farmers are “great patriots.” Our farmers and ranchers are resilient, but they are already struggling with low commodity prices and drought. With net farm income down by half over the last four years, and no relief on the horizon, they are particularly vulnerable. Accordingly, we appreciate your support for farmers and ranchers in the face of Chinese retaliation, and we encourage the Administration to work diligently in its negotiations with China to address China’s trade practices in a manner that will avoid retaliation, helping to return our agriculture industry to a state of certainty and back on the road to prosperity. Sincerely, Rep. Kristi Noem, Rep. Steve King, 44 Additional Members of Congress ###
04.12.2018	“We have an obligation to pass this Balanced Budget Amendment.” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following video of remarks he made in support of House passage of H. J. Res 2, a proposed Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution. King is a cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment. The House is expected to vote on the legislation this afternoon, and a two-thirds majority will be required for passage. King will be voting in favor of the Balanced Budget Amendment. In his remarks, King reminded Members of Congress that in 1998 the House passed a Balanced Budget Amendment, and the effort to send it to the states for ratification fell one vote short in the Senate. As King points out, the results of the Budget Balanced Amendment’s one-vote failure in 1998 have been incredibly costly to Americans. "One vote has now accumulated to over $20 Trillion in national debt," said King. "One vote falling short in the United States Senate. Let's not fall short today." To view Congressman King’s remarks in their entirety, click here. ###
04.11.2018	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following photos documenting several of the highlights of a busy day spent meeting and working with Iowans on issues important to the state and his 4th District constituents. Today’s work-day started off with Congressman King meeting the students of Le Mars Community Middle School on the House of Representative’s steps to welcome them to the nation’s capital. King welcomes Le Mars Community Middle School students to the United States House of Representatives. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, and with the re-authorization of the Farm Bill pending, King was pleased to have the opportunity to meet today with representatives of the Iowa Cattlemen’s Association. The meeting featured a full discussion of King and the Iowa Cattlemen’s shared legislative priorities, which include promoting greater international trade of Iowa’s agricultural products. Congressman Steve King (center) discusses the 2018 Farm Bill with the Iowa Cattlemen’s Association. Fittingly, after meeting with producers who raise the food for our dinner tables, King met with representatives of those who make food available to consumers: the Iowa Grocery Industry Association. Congressman Steve King (center) meets with Iowa Grocery Industry Association President Michelle Hurd, Keith’s Foods President, Brian Burnam, Fareway Stores C.E.O Reynolds Cramer, and Fareway Stores Vice President Garrett Piklapp. Healthcare remains an issue that Iowans care deeply about, and Congressman King is a nationally recognized leader in the effort to fully repeal ObamaCare before it can permanently destroy America’s health care system. King had the opportunity today to sit down with members of the Iowa Pharmacy Association who are in town for their 2018 Congressional Pharmacy Summit. Congressman Steve King discusses health care issues with members of the Iowa Pharmacy Association. It was another productive day in D.C., and Iowa was truly in the House! ###
04.06.2018	In many ways, Midwest’s rural communities never recovered from Carter-era trade policies Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King appeared on Fox News' "Your World with Neil Cavuto" to discuss King's concerns that America could be entering the early stages of a trade war with China. King is extremely concerned that the economic consequences of a trade war would fall disproportionately on American agriculture, such as pork and soybeans. In a particularly insightful and poignant moment, King reminded Cavuto that the Midwest still has never fully recovered from the economic consequences of Jimmy Carter's decision to embargo grain sales to the former Soviet Union. Carter's actions led to an economic downturn that lasted over a decade, cost many families their farms, homes, and property, and saw many young people leave rural communities never to return. An Excerpt: King: We saw what happened in the United States when Jimmy Carter on January 4, 1980 embargoed the grain that was exported then to the Soviet Union. When that happened it put us into an economic tailspin for an entire decade. A lot of us here in the Midwest…I have many scars from that. I paid 22% interest. We sold out family farm after family farm. They stood there and cried together during the auction. And I don’t want to see that again, Neil, and I’m afraid we’re going in that direction. Cavuto: It took a decade to recover from that…you’re quite right. King: Neil, I’d say in addition we didn’t actually recover because those kids that were standing there watching the farm be sold at auction got a degree and moved out of the neighborhood and didn’t come back. To watch the entire interview: click here. ###
03.28.2018	“American citizens should count the citizenship question as a partial win, while demanding more action to prevent illegal aliens from determining Congressional seats.” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King issued the following statement in response to the Department of Commerce’s announcement that the 2020 Census will reinstate a question regarding the citizenship status of respondents. King, who has introduced HR 3600- the Census Accuracy Act of 2017 in order to improve the quality of census data collected, wrote Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross in February asking for a citizenship question to be added. “The Commerce Department has granted my request and is restoring a necessary citizenship question to improve the quality of census data gathered,” said King. “Census data is used for a variety of reasons, including the apportionment of Congressional seats. Sanctuary states like California flaunt federal immigration law to give aid and comfort to large populations of illegal aliens, and those states are unjustly rewarded with extra Congressional representation as a byproduct of doing so. Citizens should not have their representation in Congress diluted due to the concentrated presence of illegal aliens in lawless cities and states. Americans should count the citizenship question as a partial win, while demanding more action to prevent illegal aliens from determining Congressional seats. Congress should also pass my Census Accuracy Act, HR 3600, and put the government on the path towards ensuring Congressional representation is based on citizen populations, not illegal populations.” Background: On February 16, Congressman King led efforts to get a citizenship question added to the decennial census. His letter was cosigned by Reps. Ralph Norman (SC-05), Ralph Abraham (LA-05), Mo Brooks (AL-05), Andy Biggs (AZ-05), Bob Gibbs (OH-07), Glenn Grothman (WI-06), Mike Johnson (LA-04), Tom McClintock (CA-04), and Bill Posey (FL-08). An excerpt: “We write to demonstrate our strong support for requiring the decennial census to ask respondents about their citizenship status. Adding a citizenship question to the decennial census would result in American citizens being more accurately represented in Congress. In addition, such questions would finally provide for an accurate count of how many aliens, both legal and illegal, are residing in the United States. For that purpose and in light of the vital role the decennial census plays in both representation and funding, I have introduced H.R. 3600, the Census Accuracy Act of 2017. Starting with the 2020 census, the bill would require a checkbox in any census questionnaire for respondents to indicate whether the respondent is: a citizen or national of the United States; lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States; an alien who otherwise has lawful status under the immigration laws; or none of these. This bill would also require that aliens be asked under which Federal program or provision of law they obtained legal status.” King’s letter requesting the addition of a citizenship question can be read in full here. King’s HR 3600-Census Accuracy Act is available here. ###
03.22.2018	199A Fix Will Restore Competition, Increase Commodity Prices Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after learning that House Appropriators had granted his request to fix the current disparity in the tax treatment of commodity sales to co-ops and private elevators. King’s requested fix was included in the final text of the House’s Omnibus Appropriations Bill. King was informed of the inclusion of the 199A fix in a message he received from House Majority Whip Steve Scalise thanking King for his work on the issue. “I am pleased to announce that the spending bill fixes a mistake in the tax code that has unintentionally distorted commodity sales since January 1st,” said King. “The tax code should not be used to pick winners and losers, and the mistake in the law meant that those who choose to sell commodities to co-ops receive large tax advantages over those who choose to sell to private elevators. By fixing this mistake, we are putting choice back in the market and this competition will increase commodity prices.” Background: A mistake in the drafting of the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has unintentionally distorted the market for commodity sales by granting preferential tax treatment to individuals who choose to sell their grain to co-ops instead of to private elevators. On March 13, Congressman King wrote Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady asking that the House Appropriators fix this mistake “as soon as possible.” King’s letter states: “It is my position to bring both co-ops and private elevators to a revenue neutral level. My proposal would bring both co-ops and private grain elevators together so there is an equal incentive for farmers. This proposal does not pick winners and losers, but it does put choice back in the market. Putting both co-ops and private grain elevators on equal footing is a simple, yet logical fix to this problem. It will help keep the market competitive and increase commodity prices—in a time when commodities are struggling. I hope this common sense proposal can help fix this problem soon to protect American businesses and farmers.” ###
03.21.2018	Analysis of Congressman King’s Appropriations Requests Shows Consistent Themes Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King is releasing the following statement after submitting 70 different appropriation requests to the House Committees that will determine how federal dollars are spent in Fiscal Year 2019. King’s requests include programs that are of vital importance to Iowa and the nation, as well as requests for specific legislative language that promotes the sanctity of human life. An analysis of King’s appropriations requests is very revealing: it shows a Congressman uniquely dedicated to successfully pursuing an agenda that can be described as “Iowa First, America First, Life First.” “Few things reveal priorities as clearly as a review of the appropriations requests a Member of Congress seeks,” said King. “When my requests for FY 2019 were analyzed, they revealed three overarching themes: my initiatives are consistently pro-Iowa, pro-America, and pro-Life. I wear these labels gladly, and I am confident that my constituents in the 4th District will appreciate and benefit from a Congressional agenda that puts ‘Iowa First, America First, and Life First’.” To illustrate the findings of the analysis, King is providing a representative sample containing 15 of the 70 requests he has submitted to Congressional appropriators this year. Importantly, King’s requests fall within the budget allocations passed by the House of Representatives with King’s support earlier this year. The identified appropriation requests neatly fall into “Iowa First,” “America First,” and “Life First” categories. “Iowa First” Appropriation Requests: King has requested the following items for “Iowa First” programs that have repeatedly demonstrated their importance to Iowans: Agriculture- King is requesting $1,269,800,000 be provided to the Agriculture Research Service; King is asking for $418,129,000 for the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative, a key initiative supporting universities with agriculture programs, such as Iowa State University; King is requesting continued funding for Rural Utilities Service Electric Loans, a program which helps keeps co-op consumers’ electric bills affordable; King is seeking $291,138,000 for Hatch Act funding, which is used by land grant universities like Iowa State to research biofuels, food security, and nutrition. Energy/Water- King is requesting an additional $31,000,000 for ongoing work on Bureau of Reclamation rural water projects dating to FY 2015, and $47,000,000 for projects dating to FY 2016; King is seeking $403,000,000 to upgrade locks and dams (waterways are vital to Iowa’s trade) administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; King is asking for $3,150,000,000 for the Operations and Maintenance of existing locks and dams on America’s waterway system; King is requesting $90,000,000 for the Department of Energy’s Wind Energy Program. More than one-third of all energy produced in Iowa is generated by the wind. Labor/HHS- King is requesting continued support for the Rural Community Facilities Technical Assistance program (RCAP) which improves access to water and adequate waste disposal systems to small towns and rural communities in rural America. Commerce, Justice, Science- King is seeking $142,000,000 for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership. “America First” Appropriation Requests: Congressman King has also taken a number of steps to advance an “America First” agenda through appropriations: Homeland Security- King is leading efforts to secure $18 billion requested by President Trump to “BUILD THE WALL!” on the US-Mexico border. Commerce, Justice, Science- King is requesting legislative language that prevents federal funds from going to lawless Sanctuary Cities that defy federal immigration law. “Life First” Appropriations Requests: Labor/HHS- King is seeking to defund the abortion industry by including language which would prevent any federal funds from being spent for research on fetal tissue obtained through an induced abortion. State/Foreign Operations- King is seeking to add the “Mexico City Policy” to prevent funding from going to any foreign non-governmental organization that promotes or perform abortions. Financial Services- King is working to prevent the spread of physician assisted suicide laws by asking for the repeal of the District of Colombia’s recently enacted “Death with Dignity Act of 2016.” ###
03.21.2018	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King is releasing video clips of comments he delivered yesterday on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of his legislation, HR 490- The Heartbeat Protection Act. In his remarks, King discusses the current status of the federal Heartbeat Protection Act (HR 490) that he has introduced. In the course of the discussion, King explained his disappointment in the National Right to Life's failure to support the legislation, especially since House Leadership has given them a “de facto veto.” National Right to Life is currently the major stumbling block to bringing King’s Pro-Life bill, cosponsored by 170 Members of Congress, to the floor for consideration. In this clip, King also explains the legislative and judicial strategy he is using to directly challenge the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision. In his remarks, Congressman King also retraced the history of our nation's founding documents to show that the Framers had a reason for listing the Right to Life first in the order of our God-given liberties. Congressman King’s speech can be viewed in its entirety here. The full remarks also include King’s comments on the good work the Iowa Legislature is doing to advance a state level Heartbeat Bill, and his expectation that Governor Kim Reynolds will sign the bill if presented with the opportunity to do so. ###
03.19.2018	Asks Homeland Security Appropriators to Include Pres. Trump’s $18 Billion Border Wall Request Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King is releasing the text of an appropriations letter he sent today to Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman John Carter and Ranking Member Lucille Roybal-Allard. In the letter, King requests a FY 2019 appropriation of $18 billion to fully construct a wall on the US-Mexico border. King’s letter was co-signed 5 by House colleagues: Paul Gosar, Louie Gohmert, Mo Brooks, Matt Gaetz, and Jody Hice. The $18 billion request in the letter matches what President Trump has asked Congress to provide for this important border security project. “Adequate funding for the border wall is essential because it satisfies a clear mandate that the American people gave this government to uphold. If Congress does not fully appropriate the amount the Trump Administration has requested in order to complete the entirety of wall construction, it will send a clear message to the people that politicians are playing games with the will of the people. At a FY 2019 funding level of $18 billion, the program will be able to fulfill the President’s entire request for the cost of construction of the border wall. By appropriating the full cost in advance, there will be no question that the government plans to secure our border. Funding the wall is the most important appropriation to improving our border security, keeping our promises, and signaling to would-be criminals that America has the will to enforce her laws.” The full text of the letter can be read here or below. Text of King’s Letter to Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Roybal-Allard: The Honorable John Carter The Honorable Lucille Roybal-Allard Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Homeland Security Subcommittee on Homeland Security 2006 Rayburn House Office 2006 Rayburn House Office Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Roybal-Allard, As you begin work on the fiscal year (FY) 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, I urge you to fund the construction of a physical border wall on the United States-Mexico border at a minimum level of $18 billion. Adequate funding for the border wall is essential because it satisfies a clear mandate that the American people gave this government to uphold. If Congress does not fully appropriate the amount the Trump Administration has requested in order to complete the entirety of wall construction, it will send a clear message to the people that politicians are playing games with the will of the people. At a FY 2019 funding level of $18 billion, the program will be able to fulfill the President’s entire request for the cost of construction of the border wall. By appropriating the full cost in advance, there will be no question that the government plans to secure our border. Funding the wall is the most important appropriation to improving our border security, keeping our promises, and signaling to would-be criminals that America has the will to enforce her laws. I urge you to support this funding level for a minimum of $18 billion for the full construction of the border wall along the US-Mexico border. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Steve King Member of Congress Paul A. Gosar, D.D.S. Member of Congress Louie Gohmert Member of Congress Matt Gaetz Member of Congress Mo Brooks Member of Congress Jody Hice Member of Congress ###
03.15.2018	King’s proposal places co-ops/private elevators on equal footing, preserves competition Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King is releasing the text of a letter he has sent to House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady in which King proposes a legislative fix for a mistake in the tax code affecting co-ops and private grain elevators. While the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has been a remarkable success for Iowans, a mistake in the law’s revisions to Section 199A has distorted the competitive market between co-ops and elevators, granting large tax advantages to those who sell their commodities to a co-op instead of to a private elevator. “It is my position to bring both co-ops and private elevators to a revenue neutral level,” said King. “My proposal would bring both co-ops and private grain elevators together so there is an equal incentive for farmers. This proposal does not pick winners and losers, but it does put choice back in the market.” King does not want to see the tax code used to pick winners or losers, and he is urging Chairman Brady to adopt King’s proposal which brings both co-ops and private elevators together at a revenue neutral level. Adoption of King’s fix to 199A would ensure that competition and choice remained key drivers of the marketplace, instead of a poorly drafted provision of the tax code. The letter can be read here or below. Text of King’s Letter to Chairman Brady: March 13, 2018 Chairman Kevin Brady 1102 Longworth Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Brady, The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has been nothing short of successful in Iowa; it has created jobs, grown the economy, and given tax cuts to most Iowans. Unfortunately, the law’s revision to Sect. 199A has caused a lot of due concern for my constituents. While our new tax law has improved many aspects of the economy, this specific revision has further chosen winners and losers. I urge you to ensure that this mistake is fixed as soon as possible, and in a way that keeps the farm commodity markets competitive between co-ops and private grain elevators. Currently farmers who take their grain to a co-op will receive a 20% gross sales deduction. On the other hand, if farmers take their grain to a private grain elevator, then they will only receive a 20% net income deduction. According to Iowa State University the average farmer in my home state of Iowa has $399,235 in grain sales and an average net income of $97,719. If the farmer takes his/her grain to a co-op they will be able to deduct 20% of gross sales—which is $79,847 in deductions. If the average farmer takes his/her grain to a private elevator then they will be able to deduct 20% of net income—which is $19,543.80. There is exactly a $60,303.20 difference between these two deductions. It is my position to bring both co-ops and private elevators to a revenue neutral level. My proposal would bring both co-ops and private grain elevators together so there is an equal incentive for farmers. This proposal does not pick winners and losers, but it does put choice back in the market. Putting both co-ops and private grain elevators on equal footing is a simple, yet logical fix to this problem. It will help keep the market competitive and increase commodity prices—in a time when commodities are struggling. I hope this common sense proposal can help fix this problem soon to protect American businesses and farmers. Sincerely, Congressman Steve King ###
03.15.2018	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Committee on Small Business, released the following photo and statement following President Donald J. Trump’s announcement that Larry Kudlow will serve as the Director of the National Economic Council. In this capacity, Kudlow will be the top economic advisor to President Trump. Congressman Steve King (left) and Larry Kudlow confer following a recent Conservative Opportunity Society breakfast. King is the Chairman of the Conservative Opportunity Society. “I’ve long placed Larry Kudlow in the short list of the top American economists. He understands how taxes and spending affect the lives of our citizens. He also understands the history of American economics, and he sees with a bold and clear eye a vision for achieving a prosperous future.” ###
03.14.2018	Students: Win a Trip to See Your Artwork on Display in the U.S. Capitol! Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King is inviting aspiring artists in the 4th Congressional District to enter the Congressional Art Competition. Each year, the Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” is sponsored by Members of the United States House of Representatives through the Congressional Institute to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in each Member’s congressional district. This competition is open to all high-school students and the winner’s art piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. The 4th District winner, along with one guest, will be flown to Washington, D.C. for the Congressional celebration courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Those interested in participating should review three important forms available on Congressman King’s website: the Art Submission Checklist, the Student Information and Release Form, and the Rules and Regulations for Students and Teachers. “It is a pleasure to shine a spotlight on Iowa’s young artists,” said King. “The students who take part in this opportunity never fail to impress me with their creativity and their talent. I invite all of our 4th District high-school students to make the most of this opportunity, and I look forward to seeing the winning work on display in the Capitol building.” Note: All artwork must be submitted and received by 5:00 PM CT on Tuesday, April 24, 2018. Artwork should be delivered in the form of an electronic copy of the work you are entering into the competition. Please send an electronic copy of the artwork to Victoria.Hurst@mail.house.gov. If you have any questions regarding this opportunity, please contact Congressman King’s Ames office at 712-299-4566. 2018 Rules and Regulations: - The competition is open to high school students. Teachers and/or students should verify their eligibility with the office of the Member of Congress. - Artwork must be two-dimensional. - Each framed artwork can be no larger than 26 inches high, 26 inches wide, and 4 inches deep. If your artwork is selected as the winning piece, it must arrive in Washington, DC, framed. Even when framed, it must still measure no larger than the above maximum dimensions. No framed piece should weigh more than 15 pounds. - Accepted mediums for the two-dimensional artwork are as follows: • Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. • Drawings: colored pencil, pencil, ink, marker, pastels, charcoal (It is recommended that charcoal and pastel drawings be fixed.) • Collages: must be two dimensional • Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints • Mixed Media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. • Computer-generated art • Photographs Each entry must be original in concept, design, and execution and may not violate U.S. copyright laws. - Any entry that has been copied from an existing photo or image (including a painting, graphic, or advertisement) that was created by someone other than the student is a violation of the competition rules and will not be accepted. ###
03.07.2018	King expresses concern retaliatory trade measures could hurt Iowa Agriculture, Manufacturing Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King announces that he has joined with the members of Iowa’s Congressional delegation on a letter to President Trump requesting that the President reconsider his proposal to place tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. The signatories to the letter expressed their concerns that trading partners affected by the President’s proposed tariffs will enact retaliatory trade measures that will hurt Iowa’s economy. Iowa is the second largest agricultural export state, and shipped over $10 billion in agriculture products abroad in 2015. The letter was signed by all six members of the Iowa delegation: Senators Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst, and King’s fellow Congressmen, David Young, Rod Blum, and Dave Loebsack. “The delegation is bringing our concerns about Iowa’s agricultural and manufacturing sectors facing retaliatory measures from our trading partners to the President’s attention in hopes he doesn’t follow through on his threats to place tariffs on imported steel and aluminum,” said King. “Ag exports and manufacturing are two key drivers of Iowa’s economy, and President Trump needs to know that the Iowa delegation is united around the belief that he should reconsider his proposed course of action.” The delegation letter can be read here or below. Text of Delegation Letter to President Trump: March 7, 2018 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: As Members of Congress who represent Iowa, we understand the importance of free and fair trade to Iowa’s strong agricultural economy. We urge you to carefully consider and analyze the economic costs and benefits of your plan to impose new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. We are concerned such a move could set into motion a chain of retaliatory measures, hurting Iowans from the family farm to the family-owned manufacturing plant. Tariffs are a tax on families and hardworking Iowans cannot afford a trade war. Iowa is comprised of diverse industries which play a vital role in supporting not only Iowa’s economy, but the entire U.S. economy. Iowa is the second largest agricultural export state, and shipped $10 billion of exports abroad in 2015 alone. Strong, fair trade favors American families and businesses and allows them to export their goods, which is critical for the farmers, manufacturers, and insurers in our state. We are extremely worried the proposed tariffs will have a negative impact on our agricultural economy. Many experts have warned tariffs will cause corresponding retaliation by our trading partners. This is concerning because the easiest target for retaliation is our agriculture exports. For example, the United States enjoys a large agricultural trade surplus with China and recently began exporting U.S. beef, which is a good indication of China’s interest in expanding agricultural imports. Iowa’s major exports to China include soybeans, corn, and pork – 60 percent of Iowa’s soybeans go to China. As farmers have already faced several years of low commodity prices, any hit to demand would be devastating to their financial situations. Besides the impact such tariffs could have on Iowa agricultural exports, imported steel and aluminum products are used to keep farm operations going while manufacturers use these products as inputs in their industrial processes. While we recognize there is excess global capacity for steel and aluminum, the overall impacts must be part of the administration’s calculus when best deciding how to engage. We urge you, Mr. President, to reconsider this proposal given the consequences this will have on states like Iowa, rural communities throughout the nation, and on America’s farms. Sincerely, ###
03.06.2018	Vice President Pence Op-Ed for Des Moines Register Touts Iowa’s Benefits from Tax Cut Bill Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King issued the following statement after reading the op-ed penned by Vice President Mike Pence that ran in today’s Des Moines Register. The Pence op-ed, entitled “Tax Cuts are Working in Iowa,” outlines the economic benefits that Iowans are receiving following the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “I have called my vote for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act the best vote I have cast in Congress, and today’s op-ed by Vice President Pence reaffirms my statement,” said King. “As the Vice President points out, working families in Iowa can expect to see their paychecks grow by more than $4,100 a year, and many have already received significant company bonuses made possible by the passage of this legislation. This bill is fueling rapid economic growth, and I applaud the Vice President for highlighting the benefits the Cyclone/Hawkeye State is seeing.” Excerpts from Vice President Pence’s op-ed: “Our economy is going to keep picking up speed, because just over two months ago, with the support of Iowa’s Republican leaders in Congress, we passed the largest tax cuts and tax reform in American history. We cut taxes for hard-working Iowans. The first $24,000 in income for a married couple is now 100% tax free, the child tax credit is twice as high as it was before, and 90% of working families will soon see the tax cut reflected in their paychecks. All told, we estimate the typical Iowa family of four will see a tax cut of almost $2,500. We also cut taxes for job creators of all sizes. We slashed the corporate tax rate from the highest in the developed world to below the average, so Iowa companies can compete and win against businesses anywhere in the world. Iowa small businesses and family farms also received significant tax relief, which means deeper roots and bigger investments in their communities. Thanks to our tax cuts, companies are investing as never before in Iowa workers and Iowa’s future. Company after company is giving bonuses to workers all across the Hawkeye State. In Des Moines alone, thousands of workers have received an average bonus of $1,000, and more than 20,000 Iowans have gotten a raise. Many other companies across the state have followed suit, with raises, bonuses and better benefits for their workers. Overall, working families in Iowa can expect to see their paychecks grow by more than $4,100 a year. And that extra money will be on top of the tax cuts that are already making a difference in Iowa wallets.” The entire Pence op-ed can be read online on the Des Moines Register’s website. ###
03.01.2018	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King is proud to announce that he has joined Senators Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst as a recipient of a score of ZERO on the Humane Society’s (HSUS) latest Congressional scorecard. The annual scorecard produced by the Humane Society, an organization facing leadership turnover in the wake of sexual harassment charges as well as allegations of deceptive fundraising practices, is used by the organization to assess each Member of Congress’s adherence to the activist animal-rights agenda promoted by the HSUS at the expense of Iowa’s farmers and ranchers. A score of ZERO, as achieved by Congressman King, indicates that the Member of Congress has not acted in furtherance of any agenda item hand-selected by the HSUS. By achieving a “perfect score” of ZERO, King continues to demonstrate his unwavering commitment to protecting Iowa agriculture and Iowans way-of-life against legislative and regulatory policies advocated for by out-of-state special interest groups representing the “Vegan Lobby.” To commemorate his “perfect score,” Congressman King would like to share his pheasant soup recipe with the public and with any hungry members of the Humane Society who might wish to avail themselves of it. Congressman Steve King, Dave King, and Alice at the conclusion of a successful day’s hunt. “It is a pleasure to commemorate my ‘perfect score’ of ZERO on the HSUS scorecard by sharing the King Family Pheasant Soup recipe with you,” said King. “There is little I enjoy more than hunting these glorious birds and preparing them in accordance with family tradition to provide my loved ones with a delicious meal. I hope that you will enjoy this recipe, and I encourage you to share your favorite game recipes with me on my Facebook page. We carnivores won’t be intimidated by anyone in the ‘Vegan Lobby’ who can be chased out of the room with a raw pork chop.” Steve King’s Traditional Pheasant Soup: Ingredients: 3 pheasants, personally hunted and cleaned; water; 3 teaspoons salt; Iowa sweet corn; chopped celery; egg noodles; chicken broth, chopped carrots. Directions: Place pheasants in a kettle with water. Add salt. Cook until done. Strain pheasants. Discard liquid. Separate pheasant meat from bone. Add all remaining ingredients including broth, shredded pheasant meat and Iowa sweet corn, except for egg noodles. Let simmer for at least an hour. Add egg noodles ten minutes before serving. Add chicken broth as needed. ###
02.27.2018	House passes King-cosponsored “Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King announces that he voted today in favor of H.R. 1865, the “Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017” (FOSTA). This important legislation imposes new penalties on any person who uses or operates a website in interstate commerce with the intent to promote or facilitate the prostitution of another person. Those convicted of violating the law would face possible penalties of a fine, imprisonment of up to 10 years (which can be increased to 25 years if certain aggravating circumstances are met), or both. The House passed the King-cosponsored legislation this afternoon on a vote of 388-25. “For a long time, unscrupulous website operators have used a loophole in the Communications Decency Act of 1996 to turn a blind eye to those who are promoting prostitution,” said King. “A statute written in the early days of e-commerce was never meant to be interpreted by courts as providing legal shelter to those engaging in human trafficking online. The passage of FOSTA will empower prosecutors with the tools they need to pull the plug on internet sex traffickers.” ###
02.27.2018	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement following the Senate’s confirmation of Iowa Secretary of Agriculture Bill Northey to serve as Undersecretary for Farm and Conservation Programs at the United States Department of Agriculture. Northey, whose nomination by President Donald Trump had been delayed by members of the United States Senate, was confirmed to the USDA position following a voice vote this afternoon. Congressman Steve King (right) and newly confirmed USDA Undersecretary for Farm and Conservation Programs, Bill Northey, during the National Association of State Departments of Agriculture’s Winter Policy Conference in Washington D.C. “When I invited Bill Northey to attend the State of the Union with me, I hoped that the Senators blocking Bill’s nomination would rethink their hold when publicly confronted with the reality of their obstruction,” said King. “Today’s welcome news is the culmination of multiple private meetings, phone calls, and public appeals I and others made on Bill’s behalf. No one has ever disputed Secretary Northey’s qualifications to serve at the USDA, and President Trump could not have made a better choice for this important position. Bill Northey’s confirmation is a win for American agriculture and a win for American biofuels, and I congratulate him on his confirmation to serve as the Undersecretary for Farm and Conservation Programs at the United States Department of Agriculture.” ###
02.15.2018	Sanctuary Cities serve as the modern analogue to the canyons that protected Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid’s criminal “Hole in the Wall Gang” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following video of his questioning of witnesses during today’s Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security hearing on the topic of “The Effect of Sanctuary City Policies on the Ability to Combat the Opioid Epidemic.” The witnesses agreed with King’s analogy that Sanctuary Cities, which adopt policies that provide shelter for illegal aliens by refusing to allow local law enforcement to cooperate with federal law enforcement agencies, serve as the modern analogue to the canyons that once provided shelter to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid’s criminal “Hole in the Wall Gang.” The witnesses also provided King with sobering testimony about the extent to which America’s drug crisis is accelerated by illegal immigration, asserting not only that 80-90% of the illegal drugs consumed within the United States are “processed and imported by way of Mexico,” but also that “it is definitely true” that at least one link in every illegal drug distribution chain goes through an illegal alien. To view the entirety of Congressman King’s exchange with the witnesses: click here. The witnesses at today’s hearing included: • Detective Nick Rogers, President, Denver Police Protective Association • The Honorable A.J. Louderback, Sheriff, Jackson County, Texas Sheriff’s Office • Ms. Jessica Vaughan, Director of Policy Studies, Center for Immigration Studies • Professor Keith Humphreys, Department of Psychiatry, Stanford University School of Medicine Excerpts from King’s Exchange (1:25- 4:10) King: Just an observation as I’m listening to this testimony about Sanctuary Cities. It makes me think of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and the “Hole in the Wall Gang” where the criminals all went into that place in the canyon where there was a narrow notch that they could guard and they lived in there happily ever after, protecting themselves and each other from the impact of law enforcement. I would ask Sheriff Louderback, do you see any similarities in that with regard to our Sanctuary jurisdictions across this country? Have they become something similar to the “Hole in the Wall Gang”? Sheriff Louderback: Respectfully, sir, that’s a very good analogy. King: Thank you. I appreciate your testimony about the cooperation required between every level of law enforcement. I grew up in a law enforcement family, and I watched as every level of law enforcement reached out and helped each other wherever they had a skill set or a knowledge base. They shared information and they worked together. Can you name another subject of law enforcement anywhere, currently or in the history of this country, where there has been a carve-out where local law enforcement declared they wouldn’t cooperate with any other level of law enforcement? Sheriff Louderback: Not that I’m aware of. King: Detective Rodgers, are you aware of any other circumstance similar to this with regard to immigration law? Detective Rodgers: No sir. King: I turn back to Ms. Vaughn, because I remember you said the numbers “80 to 90 percent” and I just missed the definition of what that was and I didn’t see it in your written testimony. Ms. Vaughn: Of the opioids that are distributed in our communities according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. I think it is important to emphasize that this distribution is carried out by people, and many of those people are in this country without authorization and those people are the subject of ICE and local law enforcement agencies and that’s how they disrupt the trafficking of these deadly drugs and that’s what keeps them off the streets. King: That’s why that number rang my bell, because probably as far back as ten years ago I sat down with DEA and they said to me that day that 80 to 90 percent of the illegal drugs consumed in America come from or through Mexico. Ms. Vaughn: That’s right. Now it might originate in China, but it’s processed and imported by way of Mexico. King: Another statement that they made was “in every illegal drug distribution chain in this country, at least one link goes through an illegal alien.” Would that be consistent with what you know, Ms. Vaughn? Ms. Vaughn: I am not familiar with that, but it is definitely true in certain parts of the country, especially New England, that is certainly true. King: I turn to Sheriff Louderback, is that contrary to any of your knowledge, Sherriff? Sheriff Louderback: No. I think that’s accurate. King: And Detective Rodgers? Detective Rodgers: Yes. Additional Background: Congressman King recently joined President Trump to participate in a White House signing ceremony for HR 2142, legislation designed to combat the nationwide opioid abuse epidemic by increasing border security efforts. For those who have been affected by opioid abuse, or who know people that are struggling with opioid addiction, Congressman King would like to take this opportunity to remind the public that the Iowa Department of Health has created an online tool that can be used to identify locations within the 4th Congressional District that can provide help. The tool is accessible at this link. ###
02.13.2018	ICYMI- King Medal Ceremony Honors Sioux City Native Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King has presented Sgt. Adam Menin with medals Sgt. Menin earned during his service with the United States Army. Sgt. Menin served from 1999-2006, and he contacted Rep. King asking for assistance in receiving his medals. King presented Menin with the following medals: Army Commendation Medal, Army Achievement Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster, Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Kosovo Campaign Medal with Bronze Star Attachment, Humanitarian Service Medal, NCO Professional Development Ribbon, Expert Badge and Grenade Bar, Sharpshooter Badge and Rifle Bar, Combat Action Badge, and the Global War on Terror Service. In addition, Menin earned the NATO Medal, however it is no longer available for replacement. “We’re grateful for Sgt. Menin’s service,” said King. “Not only are these medals important to Sgt. Menin today, but also they will be important to succeeding generations as they will stay within his family forever. Helping veterans receive their medals and helping students with military academy nominations are among the most rewarding things I do.” Thank you for your service, Sgt. Menin! KTIV: KCAU: KMEG: Sioux City Journal: GALLAGHER: Sioux City veteran receives lost medals while finding peace Sioux City Journal Video: ###
02.08.2018	Shocking statement made on WHO Radio’s “Simon Conway Show” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to an interview that occurred yesterday on WHO’s “Simon Conway Show.” In the segment Conway asked National Right to Life’s Executive Director, Dr. David O’Steen, why Right to Life is the only major pro-life organization that is refusing to support King’s “Heartbeat Protection Act” (HR 490). King’s legislation, which would save millions of innocent unborn lives by outlawing the abortion of any baby with a detectable heartbeat, has 170 Cosponsors and the support of 162 pro-life leaders and organizations, including Iowa Right to Life, Iowans for Life, and The Family Leader. O’Steen’s shocking response to Conway reveals more about the cynical inner motivations of National Right to Life than he perhaps intended. O’Steen defensively claims that National Right to Life is not supporting King’s efforts to save millions of unborn lives because “it is simply not our strategy.” Really, Dr. O’Steen? You just publicly admitted that, for National Right to Life, saving millions of unborn babies, each with a detectable heartbeat, “is simply not our strategy”? Really, Dr. O’Steen? REALLY??? If National Right to Life refuses to support a strategy to save unborn lives by outlawing abortions performed on babies with heartbeats, Dr. O’Steen, that leaves one, very important, question pro-lifers want you to answer: “What would you say you do here?” Transcript Excerpt: Simon Conway: “I was fairly shocked to discover yesterday that Congressman Steve King’s ‘Heartbeat Bill’, which we have talked to him about, and, indeed, without him, for well over a year now seems to have a problem. What is the problem? Well, it needs unanimous support of all the life organizations in the country and the biggest and oldest one of them, National Right to Life, is apparently not prepared to offer that up. “So I thought we’d get the Executive Director of National Right to Life on the phone. He is Dr. David O’Steen . . . I was really quite surprised Congressman King took to the floor of the House and called you guys out. Why will you not support the fetal heartbeat bill? Dr. David O’Steen: “Well first, let me clarify one thing. . .we do not oppose the Heartbeat Bill. We’re not standing in the way of the Heartbeat Bill. We do not oppose it. It is simply not our strategy.” ###
02.07.2018	DeWitt to serve as King’s Sioux City based District Representative Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King announces that he has hired a lifelong Sioux City native, Kolby DeWitt, to serve as his District Representative. DeWitt will be based in King’s Congressional office located in Sioux City’s Federal Building. As District Representative, DeWitt is responsible for assisting constituents in Buena Vista, Cherokee, Harrison, Ida, Monona, O’Brien, Plymouth, Sioux, and Woodbury counties. “Kolby DeWitt is a familiar face in Sioux City, and I am pleased to announce he has joined our team,” said King. “Kolby is well-connected throughout Siouxland, and he brings with him a wealth of local knowledge and local contacts that will enhance my efforts to serve the people of the 4th Congressional District. He has a finger on the pulse of the issues that affect western Iowa, and it’s great to have him on board.” DeWitt is currently serving in his second term as Public Member and Secretary to the Iowa Architectural Examining Board, and is on the Western Iowa Tech Community College Alumni Association Board. He also has previously worked for the Republican Party of Iowa, serving most recently as Regional Political Director for Western Iowa. ###
02.06.2018	Northey Nomination, FMD Vaccines Key Topics of House Agriculture Committee Hearing Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following video of his questioning of United States Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue during today’s House Agriculture Committee hearing on “The State of the Rural Economy.” During his remarks, King discussed his support for, and efforts on behalf of, the confirmation of Iowa Secretary of Agriculture Bill Northey to serve as the Undersecretary for Farm Production and Conservation at the United States Department of Agriculture. The King-Perdue exchange on Northey’s nomination occurs in the video from :35-1:45. To watch the entirety of King’s exchange with Secretary Perdue, click this link. Excerpts: King: “The nomination of our state Secretary of Agriculture, Bill Northey, to be Undersecretary of Farm Production and Conservation in your department is very important to me, and I’m doing all I can, especially behind the scenes, to try to bring that together so that can be resolved.” Perdue: “I would encourage you and all your colleagues to help in that regard . . . the frustrating part is this has nothing to do with Bill Northey, it’s a total other issue. . .I hope you will use your personal relationships in that regard to help us remove that hold as soon as possible.” King: “I will continue that, Mr. Secretary.” King also used today’s hearing to discuss his support for efforts to expand the Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) Vaccine Bank and to increase research and funding for a genetically modified FMD vaccine that can be produced within the United States. ###
02.06.2018	How can the nation’s oldest and largest pro-life group oppose the pro-life Heartbeat Bill? Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following video clips of remarks he delivered on the floor of the House of Representatives questioning how National Right to Life can justify their failure to support King’s pro-life Heartbeat Protection Act. It is a curious thing, indeed, that National Right to Life is the only one of 131 major pro-life leaders and organizations that has failed to express support for HR 490, and it is tragic that babies continue to die from abortions as this one organization exerts a unilateral veto over House consideration of King’s legislation. Is there no one on the National Right to Life Board of Directors that supports making a simple, supportive phone call to Speaker Ryan that would save unborn lives? Is there no one within National Right to Life that wishes to publicly support the efforts of the Heartbeat Protection Act’s 170 House cosponsors? Is there no one within National Right to Life that finds it odd that they are on the wrong side of 130 dedicated pro-life leaders and organizations? If not, then there is something seriously wrong within National Right to Life. To view the entirety of Congressman King’s Special Order: click here. Video Clips of Key Excerpts: “Unelected people on the outside of this Congress are the ones who are holding this bill back.” “It wasn’t your idea, I know. I’ll give it to you as an idea if that’s what National Right to Life wants . . . Who are these board members? I don’t know. 50 of them. Can you imagine, Mr. Speaker, 50 dedicated pro-life people in America that are on the board of National Right to Life and all of them sitting there intransigently saying ‘No, I don’t want to see the Heartbeat Bill moved.’?” King recounts the many occasions where National Right to Life spotlights the importance of an unborn babies heartbeat. “I’ve saved a spot up here in red for Carol Tobias and David O’Steen and if National Right to Life just gives us a call, sends an email or text, picks up the phone and calls the Speaker, we’ll move this bill.” ###
02.02.2018	#ReleaseTheMemo #MemoReleased Washington, D.C.- Consistent with his repeated public calls to #ReleaseTheMemo, Congressman Steve King announces that he is making the de-classified House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) memo detailing FBI/DOJ Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act Abuses during the 2016 election cycle available to the public. The explosive four-page memo may be read in its entirety on Congressman King’s website. President Trump declassified the memo this morning. The facts established in the memo clearly support Congressman King’s contention that, under the Presidency of Barack Obama, the FBI and the Department of Justice were weaponized against political opponents. Further investigation into the weaponization of these important law-enforcement agencies is required. “Key in the memo are names (some deeply biased) who signed off on the FISA Warrant: Comey, McCabe, Yates, Boente, & Rosenstein,” said King. “The memo now commands FISA Warrant requests be released to Congress. The statement that the FBI & the DOJ were “weaponized” holds up pretty well.” To read the FISA Abuse memo, click the above links or click here. ###
02.01.2018	Relief from federal ELD mandate sought by livestock haulers and producers Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King announces that he has written the United States Department of Transportation (USDOT) in support of an electronic logging device (ELD) exemption for small trucking businesses with exemplary safety records. The letter, coauthored by Congressman King and Representative Brian Babin (TX 36), was signed by 24 members of Congress. The King-Babin letter was sent to Deputy Administrator Cathy Gautreaux of the USDOT’s Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration today. The text of the letter follows: “February 1, 2018 The Honorable Cathy F. Gautreaux Deputy Administrator Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE Washington, DC 20590 Re: FMCSA 2017-0356, Hours of Service of Drivers: Application for Exemption; Owner Operator Independent Drivers Association, Inc. Dear Deputy Administrator Gautreaux: The best course of action with regards to the electronic logging device (ELD) mandate is still to issue a 90-day relief period for all sectors of the trucking industry as your agency continues to examine and adjudicate the numerous applications for exemptions and waivers. We write to you in support of one of those applications today: the ELD exemption of small trucking businesses with exemplary safety records. We encourage the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) to grant this application submitted by the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association (OOIDA), which would provide reasonable relief from the costly and burdensome regulation for many of the trucking industry’s safest and most experienced drivers. OOIDA’s request is responsibly constructed to ensure only motor carriers defined by the Small Business Administration (SBA) as a small-trucking business would qualify for relief from the $2 billion mandate. Additionally, the application stipulates that only motor carriers with a record of no at-fault crashes would be exempted and those with an ‘Unsatisfactory’ safety rating from FMCSA would not be eligible. By sustaining impeccable safety records, the motor carriers that would qualify have already demonstrated the use of an ELD will do nothing to improve their operations. Furthermore, OOIDA’s request would prevent small trucking businesses, who operate on the slimmest of margins, from maintaining costly fleet management devices that provide them no economic or productivity benefits. FMCSA has already granted several requests for exemption from the ELD mandate. Clearly, the agency is capable and willing to provide relief for industries who have demonstrated that exemptions will not decrease safety. In this regard, OOIDA’s application for exemption is unquestionably consistent with those previously granted and merits the agency’s approval. We believe this request is also wholly consistent with the Trump Administration’s goal of providing relief from costly and burdensome federal regulations to American small businesses. Granting OOIDA’s request would further illustrate the administration’s commitment to delivering regulatory relief that will help sustain economic growth. Sincerely, Brian Babin, D.D.S. (TX-36) Steve King (IA-04) U.S. Representative U.S. Representative” Congressman King is supportive of efforts to provide ELD relief to all sectors of the trucking industry. Today’s letter expresses his support for a specific proposal currently under agency consideration. Constituents in Iowa’s pork and cattle industry have asked Congressman King for relief from the federal ELD mandate as the $2 billion mandate places excessive and unnecessary burdens on livestock haulers and producers. ###
02.01.2018	Facts Indicate Obama’s FBI/DOJ Were Weaponized Against Republican Political Opponents Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following video reminding Americans of Obama’s April 10, 2016 “guarantee” that “there is no political influence in any investigation conducted by the Justice Department or the FBI.” King believes the facts show, contrary to the former President’s assertion, that the FBI and the DOJ were weaponized against Republican political opponents on Obama’s watch. Does the trail of conspiracy at the FBI/DOJ lead to the top? What did President Obama know and when did he know it? It’s time to #ReleaseTheMemo and let the American public see what was going on within Obama’s FBI and DOJ. To watch the video, click on the image above or on this link. ###
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King announces that Iowa’s Secretary of Agriculture, Bill Northey, has accepted the Congressman’s invitation to attend President Donald J. Trump’s State of the Union Address tonight as King’s guest. Northey has been nominated by President Trump to serve as Undersecretary for Farm Production and Conservation within the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). King supports Northey’s nomination, and hopes his presence at the State of the Union address will encourage Senators in attendance to swiftly confirm Mr. Northey. Congressman Steve King (right) and Iowa Secretary of Agriculture Bill Northey take part in the National Association of State Departments of Agriculture’s Winter Policy Conference in Washington D.C. “I want the members of the United States Senate who are blocking Bill Northey’s confirmation to look him squarely in the eye on the House floor and tell him why without blinking,” said King. “They won’t be able to do so because they know the President could not have selected a more qualified nominee for the USDA than Bill. I look forward to having Secretary Northey join me as my guest as we attend President Trump’s State of the Union address this evening, and I hope the Senate will do its duty and confirm him without any further delay.” The State of the Union will be delivered at 9:00 PM EST this evening, and will be streamed live by the White House. Those wishing to watch the livestream can do so at this link. ###
01.29.2018	“When public, all will know the corruption was #NeverTrump & #AlwaysHillary.” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King took to Twitter today to renew his earlier call for the House Intelligence Committee to vote to #ReleaseTheMemo, a four page classified document prepared by Chairman Devin Nunes during investigation into allegations of Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act abuses by government officials. King is renewing his call for public transparency in the wake of the sudden removal of Deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe from his position within the Bureau. King has read the memo, and has previously described the revelations contained within as “worse than Watergate.” King’s statement: King’s Jan 20th Statement: ###
01.19.2018	Joins with Grassley, Ernst, Blum, and Young to praise efforts of Iowa’s Pro-Life Activists Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following video of remarks he made to several hundred Iowans who have travelled to Washington to participate in today’s 45th annual March for Life. In addition to King, participants included Senator Chuck Grassley, Representative Rod Blum, and Representative David Young. As he has regularly done, Congressman King will be marching in the March for Life this afternoon. Excerpts: “I’ll be there with you today, as I have been nearly every time . . . I’m going to stay with you. We’re going to stay with this until we get it done.” . . . “I believe, as I believe everybody behind me and here in front of me believes, that human life is sacred in all of its forms and begins at the moment of conception. That’s the moment that we must protect the life.” . . . “So I wrote a bill. It’s called the Heartbeat Protection Act, HR 490. What it says is that it requires an abortionist to check for a heartbeat before he can go forward to commit abortion. If he can detect a heartbeat then there will be no abortion because we know that heartbeat is certain proof that there is a live baby.” . . . “I’m tired of incrementalism. It’s time we get this done.” . . . “You’re the pro-life culture. You’re the network that gets this solved. You’re the network that saves lives.” . . . “The message you send to America today moves our souls and it saves lives. God bless you.” Background: On Friday, January 19, the 45th annual March for Life will be taking place in Washington, DC. The March for Life is the largest pro-life event in the world and “pays witness to the truth concerning the greatest human rights violation of our time, legalized abortion on demand,” a reference to the Supreme Court’s unconstitutional Roe v. Wade decision. ###
01.19.2018	Delay: “They have the opportunity to pass a bill with real protection for the babies this year. . . It is HR 490, The ‘Heartbeat Bill’.” Washington, D.C.- In a heartfelt Washington Times op-ed entitled “Saving every baby whose heart is beating”, former GOP House Majority Leader Tom Delay calls on Congress to finally “enact a law that truly has the real impact to stop this savagery” of abortion- King’s HR 490, the Heartbeat Bill. DeLay’s remarks are important. His status as a former House Majority Leader gives him a unique insight into the way “incremental steps” have been and continue to be used to frustrate the pro-life movement’s efforts to end abortion. Rep. DeLay is willing to name names, specifically calling out National Right to Life as representative of the failures of “the establishment’s approach.” His comments are also deeply personal, with DeLay revealing that his “greatest regret on leaving Congress” is Congress’s failure to end abortion, a failure that has resulted in “a body count of 60 million innocent children.” On this March for Life day, Congressman King invites you to read former Rep. DeLay’s important op-ed. Excerpts of the op-ed are provided below. The op-ed may be read in full on the Washington Times website at this link. Excerpts: “Saving every baby whose heart is beating” By Tom DeLay Washington Times, 1/17/18 This message is directed to the U.S. Congress and all pro-life voters: The time has come that we all must strongly demand, after 45 years of destroying our children with the brutal act of abortion, that our U.S. Congress must enact a law that truly has the real impact to stop this savagery. Yes, every session our Congress passes an incremental bill that brings the pro-life movement about an inch down the field. They have used this approach to placate the pro-life vote for decades. But after 45 years of “abortion on demand” — and a body count of 60 million innocent children — we can no longer be satisfied with a weak, do-little or nothing law against abortion. . . . My greatest regret on leaving Congress is that we didn’t end abortion. But I believed the lie still being told that we could only regulate the abortion industry. We passed laws that took us a very incremental step at a time. That approach was and is a total failure. If you disagree, just look at the results: 60 million dead babies. Today, National Right to Life, the only national group that doesn’t support the Heartbeat Bill’s substantial protection for unborn children, thinks “success” is to kill only a million children a year. We reject the establishment’s approach. . . . However, they have the opportunity to pass a bill with real protection for the babies this year, getting us within reach of our goal. It is HR 490, The “Heartbeat Bill.” The Heartbeat Bill will protect every child whose heartbeat can be detected. Every year the Heartbeat Bill will save nearly a million children now facing the ultimate child abuse. This common-sense bill is supported by 7 out of 10 voters in America (George Barna poll, 2017). This bill already has 170 congressional co-sponsors, which is more than any other pro-life bill in Congress. . . . It is our responsibility, to let our congressmen and congresswomen know how important it is to protect our most fragile new citizens from harm. We must save every baby whose heart is beating. ###
01.19.2018	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following photos of his participation in today’s 45th annual March for Life events. King, a regular attendee at the March for Life, wishes to thank all of those who came to Washington D.C. to participate in the March for Life for providing the energy and the activism needed to make the pro-life movement a success. Congressman King addresses Iowa Pro-Life Activists attending the March for Life as Senator Chuck Grassley looks on. Congressman Steve King and Mrs. Barbara Grassley speak following a reception welcoming Iowa’s March for Life Activists to Washington D.C. King meets with supporters of his Heartbeat Bill legislation (HR 490) in front of the Supreme Court. King speaks with Catholic Priest, and pro-life activist, “Father Frank” in front of the Supreme Court. Congressman Steve King stands with pro-life activists in front of the United States Supreme Court during the March for Life. Congressman Steve King poses with a poster of Mother Theresa that expresses an important truth. Congressman Steve King and his D.C. staff proudly Marching for Life. Background: On Friday, January 19, the 45th annual March for Life took place in Washington, DC. The March for Life is the largest pro-life event in the world. It “pays witness to the truth concerning the greatest human rights violation of our time, legalized abortion on demand.”
01.18.2018	Illegal Alien Luis Enrique Monroy Bracamontes on Murder of California Cops: “I wish I had killed more of the ******-*******. I will break out soon and I will kill more.” Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King encourages the American public to watch the following news video and then to ask their elected officials why Americans should continue to accept the unnecessary deaths of citizens at the hands of illegal aliens. King, a leading opponent of efforts to grant amnesty to illegal aliens and an outspoken supporter of President Trump’s call to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, believes it is important that Americans see news stories like this so that they can put a face to the federal policy debates surrounding illegal immigration. “Every time an American citizen is killed in the United States by an illegal alien, it is a 100% preventable crime,” said King. “It is a crime that should not have happened committed by an alien perpetrator who should not have been here in the first place. In this tragic California case, an illegal alien cruelly killed two police officers in cold blood. Bracamontes shows no remorse, smiling instead as he threatens to kill more cops. Did Sacramento, California’s well-known status as a ‘sanctuary city’ play a role in attracting Bracamontes to the area or in allowing him to remain in a location in which he could murder two Sacramento-area police officers? It’s hard to say otherwise. This is another ghastly case that calls out to the U.S. Senate to pass H.R 3003, my ‘No Sanctuary for Criminals Act’.” Illegal Alien Luis Bracamontes smiles as he expresses his desire to kill more police officers King’s comments come in the wake of his viewing of this story, in which an illegal alien from Mexico, Luis Enrique Monroy Bracamontes, admits to the killing of Sacramento, California, sheriff’s Deputy Danny Oliver and Placer County, California, sheriff’s Deputy Michael Davis, Jr. In the video, Bracamontes tells the presiding judge in his criminal case the following: “I wish I had killed more of the mother-------s," Bracamontes told the court. He continued, "I will break out soon and I will kill more, kill whoever gets in front of me...There's no need for a f---ing trial." The murder of these Sacramento-area police officers occurred in 2014. Sacramento, California has been a self-professed “sanctuary city” since 1985, proudly providing safe harbor for illegal aliens. Reports suggest that Mr. Bracamontes has repeatedly entered the United States illegally. Was Mr. Bracamontes a beneficiary of liberal, lawless “sanctuary” policies? Were Officers Oliver and Davis, Jr. victims of them? ###
01.11.2018	FISA legislation’s Section 702 changes strike important balance between Civil Liberties and National Security Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, releases the following video of remarks he made on the House floor this morning in support of S. 139, the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act of 2017. The bill makes important changes to Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act in order to enhance civil liberty protections for American citizens while also preserving the usefulness of foreign intelligence collected by this important national security tool. King voted in favor of the legislation, which passed the House on a bipartisan 256-164 vote. To view the video click this link. “I rise in support of the 702 re-authorization. It is critical to our national security. You would see the color drain out of the faces of all of our security personnel, the entire national security community, if we lost the ability and went dark on 702. We’ve got to follow through in this Congress. We’ve got to provide the flexibility for them to use the tools that we have available to us. We set up procedures that approve this annually under the FISA courts. We got a probable cause requirement for any criminal investigation that protects U.S. persons. We don't need to be protecting anything but U.S. persons when it comes to this. The gentlelady spoke of civil liberties and I stand in defense of those civil liberties as well and in defense of national security. We have an IG report that's written into this bill. But I would remind the people that are concerned about this focus on these civil liberties that Google and Facebook and Verizon and AT&T hold more data than the U.S. government has. That is where the real information is. And if they are concerned about that they should raise that issue. Meanwhile, I will oppose the Amash amendment and support the re-authorization of 702. Our people, U.S. persons, deserve that protection.” Among the changes made to Section 702 referenced by King are the inclusion of language adding a “probable cause based order requirement” for the FBI to view Section 702 content, and a requirement for the Department of Justice Inspector General to review FBI Section 702 practices. These changes are viewed as important privacy enhancements for American citizens. ###
01.11.2018	Legislation Strengthens Border Security Tools to Combat Opioid Importation Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a leading border security advocate, is releasing the White House’s video of his participation in the ceremony at which President Trump signed the INTERDICT Act into law. King is a prominent supporter of this bipartisan legislation which combats the opioid abuse epidemic by increasing U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s ability to detect and stop the flow of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids across America’s borders. King’s exchange with President Trump appears in the video from 12:21-12:57. Video Link: Here. King Excerpt: “Everybody worked here well together on a bipartisan piece of legislation that will definitely save lives. I wanted to complement you for having a bill signing ceremony here, with the press here to broadcast this out across the country, because the very fact that we are speaking to America, and you are using your voice to speak to America, saves lives starting from this moment.” Background: Yesterday, Congressman King issued a press release (“Strengthening US-Mexico Border Enforcement Will Assist Iowa’s Efforts to Combat Opioid Abuse”) containing more information about the INTERDICT Act, the nationwide opioid crisis, and efforts to address this public health issue both federally and within Iowa. For those who have been affected by opioid abuse, or who know people that are struggling with opioid addiction, Congressman King would like to take this opportunity to remind the public that the Iowa Department of Health has created an online tool that can be used to identify locations within the 4th Congressional District that can provide help. The tool is accessible at this link. ###
01.10.2018	Trump Invites King to White House for INTERDICT Act Signing Ceremony Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a leading border security advocate, announces that he has been invited by President Trump to participate in the White House bill signing ceremony for HR 2142, the “International Narcotics Trafficking Emergency Response by Detecting Incoming Contraband with Technology Act” (INTERDICT Act). King voted in favor of the bipartisan bill being signed into law by President Trump today. The INTERDICT Act is designed to combat a nationwide opioid abuse epidemic by providing chemical screening devices to U.S. Customs and Border Protection that will enhance their ability to interdict fentanyl, synthetic opioids, and other narcotics illegally brought into the United States. “I support this bipartisan effort to combat the opioid abuse epidemic through increased border security efforts,” said King. “According to the State Department, Mexico is among the leading suppliers of fentanyl, synthetic opioids, and heroin to the United States. Giving US Customs and Border Protection additional chemical screening tools to identify and interdict these drugs while they are in transit is a common sense solution to an opioid crisis exacerbated by Mexican drug cartels. Strengthening US-Mexico border enforcement will assist Iowa’s efforts to combat opioid abuse.” The Iowa Department of Health has created an online tool that can be used to identify locations within the 4th Congressional District that can provide help to those struggling with drug addiction. The tool is accessible at this link. Background: Opioid addiction is a growing problem within both the United States generally and within Iowa specifically. According to an analysis by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention “opioids—prescription and illicit—are the main driver of drug overdose deaths. Opioids were involved in 42,249 deaths in 2016, and opioid overdose deaths were five times higher in 2016 than 1999.” In Iowa, deaths from opioid overdoses have followed national trends, rising from 28 deaths in 2005 to 67 deaths in 2016. The State Department has concluded that “Mexico is a major source and transit country for heroin, marijuana, and synthetic drugs destined for the United States and a main transit country for cocaine from South America. Mexico is a source of illicit opium poppy and the primary supplier of heroin and opium derivatives to the U.S. domestic market.” These “synthetic drugs” include fentanyl and other opioids. Addressing the opioid epidemic within Iowa was identified by Governor Kim Reynolds as a priority for the state in her recent Condition of the State Address. King believes federal efforts to interdict the flow of drugs at the US-Mexico border will complement Governor Reynolds’s ongoing efforts to address opioid abuse. ###
12.22.2017	King outlines immigration law priorities that would restore respect for the Rule of Law Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King and President Donald Trump spoke by phone yesterday evening to discuss the unconstitutional Obama-era “Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals” (DACA) program. During the call, Congressman King reaffirmed his opposition to DACA, an Obama-era amnesty program for illegal aliens that undermines the Rule of Law in America. King encouraged the President to keep the promise, first articulated by candidate Donald Trump on June 16, 2015, to end DACA. After his constructive discussion with President Trump, King recorded and released the following video providing insights into his call with the president. In his remarks, King outlines an agenda of additional policy proposals he would like President Trump to incorporate into any DACA related negotiations that may occur next year. These proposals, viewed by King as essential elements of restoring respect for the Rule of Law, include: making English the official language of the United States; ensuring illegal aliens are not counted by the census for purposes of Congressional apportionment; ending tax deductions taken by employers of illegal aliens; and ending the current practice of granting automatic US citizenship upon birth to the children of illegal aliens. To watch the video statement, click here. ###
12.19.2017	Congressman King Heralds Historic Tax Reform Bill’s Benefits to Iowans Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of HR 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The legislation marks the first significant reform to the nation’s tax laws in more than 30 years, and it contains numerous provisions that provide welcome relief to Iowans at all income levels. In addition to lowering federal taxes for individuals, families, small businesses, and corporations, the final legislation also repeals the ObamaCare Individual Mandate tax currently levied on those who choose not to purchase health insurance. King, a leader in the effort to repeal ObamaCare in its entirety, previously asked Chairman Kevin Brady and Chairman Orrin Hatch to include repeal of the Individual Mandate in the final tax bill. The legislation passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 227-203 and, when passed by the Senate, it is expected that President Trump will sign the bill into law. “Passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is an early Christmas present to American taxpayers,” said King. “When this bill becomes law, the American economy will be poised to have both a Happy New Year and a Happy New Decade of 3% GDP growth or more. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is a welcome gift to everyone who believes Americans should be allowed to keep more of their hard earned money. I look forward to Iowans enjoying the jobs and income growth that will result from this bill over the coming years.” “Importantly, this bill repeals the Individual Mandate in ObamaCare. This is the most concrete step that Congress has taken towards repealing ObamaCare, and it sets the stage for me to lead additional repeal efforts in 2018. ObamaCare is the coal in America’s stocking, and we need to rid ourselves of it.” Provisions Important to Iowans: The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will strengthen Iowa’s economy. Specifically, an analysis prepared by the independent Tax Foundation estimates that passage of this legislation will lead to the creation of 3,682 full-time equivalent jobs in Iowa, and that after-tax incomes for middle income families in Iowa will increase by $650.03. The Tax Foundation estimates that, nationally, passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act “would result in the creation of roughly 339,000 new full-time equivalent (FTE) jobs, while increasing the after-tax incomes by 1.1 percent in the long run, meaning families would see an after-tax income boost of 1.1 percent by the end of the decade.” The House Ways and Means Committee analysis of the bill projects that the typical family of four, earning the median family income of $73,000, will receive a tax cut of $2,059. Iowans are particularly hard-hit by ObamaCare’s Individual Mandate tax penalty, an unjust tax which falls disproportionately on low-income earners. In Iowa, 82% of those paying the ObamaCare Individual Mandate tax make less than $50,000/yr. This figure is only 80% nationally. The repeal of this penalty will be an enormous relief to the 52,000 Iowans who paid it in 2015, and will restore the principle that the federal government does not have to authority to force citizens to purchase products from private companies. The 4th District is also home to Iowa State University, and the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act preserves current benefits to higher-education, such as tax-free tuition waivers and the ability to deduct student loan interest payments. Among the provisions benefitting Iowans in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act are: • Lower Individual Rates: Lowers individual tax rates to 0%, 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37%. • Increased Standard Deduction: Like the House and Senate bills, roughly doubles the Standard Deduction – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. 89,133 taxpayers in the 4th District itemize their taxes. As a result of the standard deduction being increased from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals (and from $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples), many filers will have simpler taxes and a larger total deduction to take. • Expanded Medical Expense Deduction: Provides relief for Americans with expensive medical bills by expanding the medical expense deduction for 2018 and 2019 for medical expenses exceeding 7.5% of adjusted gross income. • Increased Child Tax Credit: 58,340 taxpayers in Iowa’s 4th District claim the child tax credit, and this legislation increases the credit from $1,000 to $2,000. • Charitable deduction preserved. • Death Tax Relief: Provides immediate relief from the Death Tax by doubling the exemption amount from $5.49 million to $10.98 million. • State and Local Taxes remain deductible: Up to $10,000, just like current law. • Favorable Tax Treatment for Students, Higher Education Preserved: Tuition waivers received by graduate students remain tax-free and students can still deduct loan interest payments. • Internationally Competitive Corporate Tax Rates: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 21% --down from 35%-- making American companies more competitive against foreign entities. ###
12.13.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, releases the following video of his questioning of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein during today’s Department of Justice oversight hearing. During his questioning, King focused on newly disclosed text messages between FBI officials Peter Strzok and Lisa Page that reveal the presence of significant anti-Trump/Pro-Clinton bias within the FBI. The existence of these text messages further calls into question whether the FBI’s previous investigation of Hillary Clinton and Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s current investigation of President Trump was/is hopelessly compromised by the hyper-partisan Strzok, a man who has played significant roles in both efforts. Full video is available here. Excerpt: King: “I'm looking at what was reported this morning. I just took a picture of the television set. A quote from August 6th, Lisa Page to Peter Strzok, and they're talking about President Trump and she's speaking to Peter Strzok, her lover, I hear. ‘Lisa Page (to Peter Strzok): Maybe you're meant to stay where you are because you are meant to protect the country from that menace. Peter Strzok (to Lisa Page): It's absolutely true that we're both very fortunate and of course I’ll try and approach it that way. I just don't know. It will be tough at times. I can protect our country at many levels, not sure if that helps.’ King: Does that sound like a declaration that he would use his job to leverage his work against the President of the United States?” To many observers, it does sound like such a declaration. The American public deserves to know the extent to which the FBI has been politicized, and whether rabid pro-Clinton partisanship by Peter Strzok, and others associated with Mueller’s team, has thoroughly compromised investigative efforts. It has been established that at least 9 of the 16 members of Special Counsel Mueller’s hand-selected team have donated to Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama, and/or the Democratic Party. In contrast, only one member of the 16 member Mueller team has contributed to Republican candidates. Some of the biased Strzok/Page text messages refer to President Trump in such profane and hateful terms that they are deemed unsuitable for inclusion in this press release. ###
12.12.2017	House Judiciary Committee Passes Bipartisan Bills Combatting Exploitation and Fraud Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement praising the bipartisan manner in which two pieces of important legislation were passed by the committee today. In action this morning, the Judiciary Committee passed HR 1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017, and HR 2595, the Strengthening the Department of Homeland Security Secure Mail Initiative Act. King is a co-sponsor of HR 1865, and both bills passed with significant support from the committee’s Republican and Democratic members. “The House Judiciary Committee is the most polarized committee on Capitol Hill because the issues before us define our country and civilization,” said King. “The members of the committee bring to it a medley of competing views, and it was a pleasure to work with my colleagues to distill our views into bipartisan bills that advance our fundamental interest in protecting Americans from exploitation and fraud.” Background: HR 1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017, creates a new federal statute combatting the promotion of sex trafficking online by permitting local and state criminal prosecutions of sex-trafficking websites. HR 2595, the Strengthening the Department of Homeland Security Secure Mail Initiative Act, targets immigration document fraud by allowing the recipient of immigration related paperwork to elect to pay a fee to have the paperwork sent to them through the U.S. mail subject to a hold for pickup or signature confirmation. ###
12.11.2017	Congressman Steve King announces that he has signed a letter to House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady and to Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch requesting that the Conference Committee on HR 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, preserve Senate passed language that repeals ObamaCare’s Individual Mandate. This controversial mandate imposes punitive fines on individuals who choose not to purchase health insurance. The text of the letter, and complete list of cosigners, follows: Dear Chairman Brady and Chairman Hatch: As you begin conference proceedings related to H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we respectfully request that the final package include a repeal of the Obamacare individual mandate. Including language to repeal this harmful policy will return personal decisions about health care choices to patients, fulfilling a key promise we have made to the American people. Until enactment of Obamacare, the federal government had never required individuals, as a condition of lawful residence in the United States, to purchase a product from a private company. Yet the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has estimated that the individual mandate will force approximately 13 million people, who would not voluntarily choose to purchase Obamacare-compliant plans without the threat of federal penalties, to do so. This raises an important question: If Obamacare provides Americans with great health insurance, why would they have to be forced to purchase it? Obamacare’s coercive individual mandate represents perhaps the worst example of the federal government violating individual freedom and liberty – which is why we have repeatedly promised to repeal it. Repeal of the individual mandate was included in the Senate-passed bill and had earned robust support in the House. We urge you to help fulfill our promise to the American people and include this language in a final conference package. Sincerely, 1. Mark Walker 2. Sam Johnson 3. Jeb Hensarling 4. Rob Woodall 5. Bill Flores 6. Rick Allen 7. Brian Babin 8. Jim Banks 9. Andy Barr 10. Joe Barton 11. Andy Biggs 12. Marsha Blackburn 13. Ted Budd 14. Bradley Byrne 15. Earl L. Buddy Carter 16. Steve Chabot 17. Liz Cheney 18. Tom Cole 19. Kevin Cramer 20. Warren Davidson 21. Ron DeSantis 22. Scott DesJarlais 23. Jeff Duncan 24. Trent Franks 25. Matt Gaetz 26. Mike Gallagher 27. Bob Gibbs 28. Bob Goodlatte 29. Paul Gosar 30. Tom Graves 31. Garrett Graves 32. Andy Harris 33. Vicky Hartzler 34. Jody Hice 35. French Hill 36. Richard Hudson 37. Trent Kelly 38. Steve King 39. Raul Labrador 40. Darin LaHood 41. Doug LaMalfa 42. Doug Lamborn 43. Barry Loudermilk 44. Tom McClintock 45. Martha McSally 46. Luke Messer 47. Alex Mooney 48. Dan Newhouse 49. Ralph Norman 50. Gary Palmer 51. Scott Perry 52. Robert Pittenger 53. Ted Poe 54. John Ratcliffe 55. Phil Roe 56. Todd Rokita 57. Francis Rooney 58. Dennis Ross 59. Keith Rothfus 60. David Rouzer 61. Austin Scott 62. Jason Smith 63. Lamar Smith 64. Tim Walberg 65. Randy Weber 66. Brad Wenstrup 67. Bruce Westerman 68. Roger Williams 69. Joe Wilson 70. Ted Yoho Background: ObamaCare’s Individual Mandate penalty payments, a tax as designated by United States Supreme Court Justice John Roberts, falls disproportionately on low-Income earners. In Iowa, 82% of those paying the ObamaCare Individual Mandate tax make less than $50,000/yr. It has been projected that repealing the Individual Mandate would save more than $300 billion over ten years. On November 16, Congressman King expressed his belief that the tax reform package that passed the House of Representatives would be improved with the inclusion of the Senate’s provision repealing the ObamaCare Individual mandate. King’s earlier comments may be viewed here. ###
12.07.2017	King: “It looks to me that the ‘Get Out of Jail Free’ card that Hillary Clinton received is rooted clear back in Barack Obama and his introduction of the word intent or lack of intent as a requirement for 18 USC 793 (f).” Congressman Steve King released the following video of his questioning of Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Christopher Wray during a Judiciary Committee oversight hearing held this morning. King used his time to question Director Wray over “curiosities” related to the manner in which the FBI, under the Obama-era leadership of admitted political leaker James Comey, handled the criminal case involving the mishandling of classified information by former Secretary of State and Democratic nominee for President, Hillary Clinton. Among the “curiosities” cited by King are: the apparent failures of the FBI to take or preserve notes and/or transcripts, or to record audio or video during their questioning of Mrs. Clinton; the use of an “intent” standard that does not exist in the statute to justify Comey’s decision to let Mrs. Clinton escape prosecution; and Comey’s strange determination that “extreme carelessness”, a standard for which he admits he has evidence of Mrs. Clinton’s guilt, is somehow different than the synonymous “gross negligence” standard that appears in the statute. Interestingly, in his responses to King, Director Wray admitted that it does not appear standard protocol was followed in the Clinton investigation, and that the statutory “gross negligence” standard is, as King contends, synonymous with a standard of “extreme carelessness.” As such, Mrs. Clinton met the standard for prosecution. Full Video is available at this link. Background: 18 USC 793 is the federal statute that governs the mishandling of classified information, and it is the applicable statute governing Hillary Clinton’s mishandling of classified emails on her private server. Before granting Clinton a “get of jail free card,” former FBI Director James Comey stated: “Although there is evidence of potential violations of the statutes regarding the handling of classified information, our judgment is that no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case. Prosecutors necessarily weigh a number of factors before bringing charges. There are obvious considerations, like the strength of the evidence, especially regarding intent.” As written, 18 USC 793 does not contain a specific “intent” requirement. The applicable standard provided for in statute is that the accused acted with “gross negligence,” a standard Hillary Clinton certainly met based on the existing public evidence, and a standard that appears to be synonymous with the “extreme carelessness” standard Comey has admitted he found prior to absolving Mrs. Clinton. Claims of an “intent requirement” allowing the previous administration to avoid prosecuting Hillary Clinton criminally appear to be a political invention of former President Obama. After President Obama defended Clinton publically in October of 2015 and April of 2016 by specifically citing Clinton’s supposed “intent,” it appears the Obama-era FBI applied the non-existent standard promoted by the President to their consideration of the Clinton case. 18 USC 793 (f) reads as follows: “18 USC 793 (f) Whoever, being entrusted with or having lawful possession or control of any document, writing, code book, signal book, sketch, photograph, photographic negative, blueprint, plan, map, model, instrument, appliance, note, or information, relating to the national defense, (1) through gross negligence permits the same to be removed from its proper place of custody or delivered to anyone in violation of his trust, or to be lost, stolen, abstracted, or destroyed, or (2) having knowledge that the same has been illegally removed from its proper place of custody or delivered to anyone in violation of its trust, or lost, or stolen, abstracted, or destroyed, and fails to make prompt report of such loss, theft, abstraction, or destruction to his superior officer—Shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.” ###
12.05.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice, releases the following photo and statement after appearing today at a rally held in front of the United States Supreme Court on behalf of Jack Phillips, a Colorado cake baker. Phillips has been sanctioned by the Colorado Civil Rights Commission for refusing to design cakes for same-sex ceremonies. Phillips contends that Colorado’s efforts to force him to do so violate his First Amendment right to freely exercise his sincere religious convictions. King appeared at a “Justice for Jack” rally to express his support for Mr. Phillips’ First Amendment right to operate his small business in a manner consistent with his religious beliefs. “I am urging the United States Supreme Court to say ‘I Do’ to the First Amendment by respecting this wedding cake baker’s right to operate his small business in a manner which is consistent with the free exercise of his religious beliefs even if that means the baker will choose not to produce cakes for same-sex ceremonies,” said King. “The right to freely exercise one’s religion is an explicit right in the First Amendment, whereas the Founding Fathers would have scoffed at the suggestion that a State could punish a baker who refused to violate his conscience by supplying cakes for a same-sex ceremony. The Supreme Court needs to return to reading the Constitution with the meaning it holds as ratified by ‘We the People,’ or maybe a Constitutional amendment should be introduced that will allow ‘We the People’ to start directly voting on who gets to sit on the Supreme Court.” Background: Today, the U.S. Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in Masterpiece Cakeshop, Ltd. V. Colorado Civil Rights Commission. Jack Phillips is a cake artist and owner of “Masterpiece Cakeshop, Ltd.” Phillips believes the State of Colorado is violating his First Amendment right to freely exercise his religious beliefs by requiring him either to participate in the design of cakes for same-sex wedding ceremonies or to face state mandated penalties for refusing to do so. The State of Colorado asserts it has the right to assess fines and require “comprehensive staff training” of cake shop employees if Phillips refuses to decorate cakes requested for same-sex weddings. Mr. Phillips, in operating his business, chooses not to decorate cakes in a manner which conflicts with his Christian faith. In fact, Phillips does not decorate cakes that celebrate Halloween, that promote atheism, that celebrate divorce, or that contain anti-LGBT messages. He is seeking a ruling from the United States Supreme Court that strengthens the First Amendment rights of all Americans by protecting his right to freely exercise his religious beliefs while running his small business. ###
11.30.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, released the following statement after reviewing the final rule released by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that sets the required renewable fuel volumes for 2018 under the Renewable Fuels Standard. “I am appreciative of the fact that Administrator Pruitt scrapped the EPA’s earlier proposal, and instead finalized a rule with higher levels for renewable fuels than the agency initially sought,” said King. “In October, I asked the Administrator to develop a rule with stronger RFS volume requirements. It appears that he has done so, although I am disappointed that the volume requirement for biomass-based biodiesel is only 2.1 billion gallons when we can produce much more.” “This final rule preserves the 15 billion gallon requirement for corn ethanol and other conventional renewable fuels. It also increases the cellulosic biofuel and advanced biofuel volumes above the levels the agency first proposed. In fact, advanced biofuels actually have an increased volume level over 2017’s requirement.” “Today’s announcement shows that the Trump Administration has not forgotten its promises to those of us who support the increased use of renewable fuels. Administrator Pruitt is to be commended for tanking the EPA’s first proposal, and I will continue to work with him to fuel the growth of the ethanol industry.” The RFS Volume rule finalized by the EPA sets the following volume requirements for 2018: Cellulosic biofuel (million gallons): 288 Biomass-based diesel (billion gallons) 2.1 Advanced biofuel (billion gallons): 4.29 Renewable fuel (billion gallons): 19.29 In October, Congressman King joined with 21 members of the Congressional Biofuels Caucus on a letter asking the EPA “to formulate a more robust final rule regarding the volume requirements under the Renewable Fuel Standard.” A copy of that letter can be seen here. ###
11.30.2017	House Judiciary Committee Passes King Cosponsored “Concealed Carry Reciprocity” Legislation Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement following House Judiciary Committee passage of important legislation he cosponsored that protects Iowans’ ability to legally carry concealed firearms. King, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, voted in favor of H.R. 38, the “Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017,” during committee action yesterday evening. The legislation now moves out of committee and is eligible for consideration on the floor of the House of Representatives. “Law abiding Iowans with concealed carry licenses are exercising our rights under the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution, and our Second Amendment rights do not end at our state’s border,” said King. “H.R. 38 ensures that a concealed carry license in Iowa will be honored in any other state that allows its residents to carry concealed firearms. This is important legislation that serves notice to gun-grabbers that their efforts to restrict the Constitutional right to keep and bear arms through excessive and burdensome state licensing schemes will not be tolerated.” ###
11.20.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement and photos regarding events he participated in today in Ames, Iowa. King maintains a District Office in Ames located on Bell Avenue. While in Ames, King hosted a medal ceremony in which he presented the family of Kenneth Sorenson with medals Mr. Sorenson earned for his service in World War II. Following the medals ceremony, King addressed the Ames Chamber of Commerce and answered questions about the recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the importance of international trade, and the need to repeal costly and burdensome federal regulations. “It is always a pleasure to spend time in Ames, and today is no exception,” said King. “It was an honor to meet Jim and Lisa Sorenson and to present them with the impressive medals Jim’s father, Kenneth, earned during World War II. His service should be remembered, and I was pleased to be able to assist the Sorenson’s in finally receiving the medals earned so long ago by Kenneth Sorenson for his heroism.” “I also enjoyed having the opportunity to meet with the members of the Ames Chamber of Commerce to discuss the issues that are on their agenda. The Ames Chamber includes representatives from Iowa State University, local communities like Nevada and Story City, and important job creators like Alliant Energy and Danfoss Power Solutions. We share a belief in the importance of international trade to Iowa’s economy, and it is a pleasure to work with them on issues like tax reform and regulatory reform.” Background: Kenneth Sorenson joined the Army on Feb. 10th, 1941, and was based out of Boone in the 34th “Red Bull” Division. He fought on the front of WWII for over a year and a half in northern Africa and Italy. He fought in the Anzio Beachhead battle in Italy, which was one of the major victories of the US military in WWII and a turning point in the war. Mr. Sorenson was honorably discharged on August 30th, 1945. Mr. Sorenson earned the GOOD CONDUCT MEDAL, the AMERICAN DEFENSE SERVICE MEDAL, the AMERICAN CAMPAIGN MEDAL, the EUROPEAN-AFRICAN-MIDDLE EASTERN CAMPAIGN MEDAL with 4 bronze service stars, the WORLD WAR II VICTORY MEDAL, and the HONORABLE SERVICE LAPEL BUTTON WWII. ###
11.16.2017	Legislation Closes Loophole Allowing Extortion, Violence, Sabotage by Union Members Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King announces that he has introduced H.R. 4422, the “Freedom from Union Violence Act of 2017” (FUVA). The King legislation is designed to close a legal loophole that currently allows sabotage and other acts of extortionate violence to be committed by militant union members if such acts are conducted in the pursuit of “legitimate union objectives.” King’s legislation seeks to close this loophole by amending existing federal anti-racketeering legislation (the Hobbs Act) to impose a prison term of up to 20 years on anyone who “obstructs, delays, or affects commerce, by robbery or extortion, or attempts or conspires so to do, or commits or threatens physical violence to any person or property.” “Union violence is an ongoing problem, and it deserves no protection in federal law,” said King. “Because of the Supreme Court’s disastrous 1973 Enmons decision, striking thugs have license to engage in conduct against their employers and fellow employees which would be recognized as extortion in other contexts. The ‘Freedom from Union Violence Act’ closes the loophole that the Supreme Court created and reaffirms that violence and threats of violence are illegitimate and have no place in workplace disputes.” Background: FUVA is a direct response to the United States Supreme Court’s holding in United States v. Enmons. In Enmons, three members of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), targeted the property of their employer for destruction during a strike in which these same workers were demanding a new collective bargaining agreement. The violent acts of the IBEW members included: firing high powered rifles at company transformers; blowing up a company substation; and draining a company transformer of oil. The Supreme Court’s 1973 Enmons ruling held that existing federal anti-racketeering legislation (the Hobbs Act) does not cover violent acts of extortion engaged in by union members in pursuit of “legitimate union objectives.” This led to the dismissal of federal charges brought against those who had engaged in sabotage in Enmons, and created a horrible loophole in which union members actually are protected from federal racketeering charges if they engage in extortion or other acts of violence against their employer or fellow workers. ###
11.16.2017	Urges House to Adopt Senate Provision Repealing ObamaCare’s Individual Mandate Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following statement after voting in favor of tax reform legislation that will provide a tax cut to Iowans while also providing a stimulus for the creation of jobs in the state. King voted in favor of H.R.1, the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, which passed the House of Representatives today on a vote of 227-205. “The passage of today’s historic tax reform legislation represents the best opportunity Congress has had in 30 years to reform the nation’s complex and outdated tax code in a manner which will provide Iowans with tax relief, a simpler tax return, and a better economic climate for job creation,” said King. “This legislation will stimulate the economy and launch the United States onto a growth path that can produce a better than 3% annual GDP growth rate for the next decade or more. In addition, I welcome the inclusion of provisions which increase the size of the standard deduction, increase the size of the child tax credit, preserve the adoption tax credit, allow businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment, lower corporate tax rates to a competitive level, and provide for the full repeal of the Death Tax. This legislation will result in a flatter, fairer, and simpler tax system that will benefit individuals, families, farms, and small businesses throughout Iowa.” “While I support the package that passed the House of Representatives today, it would have been much improved with the inclusion of the Senate’s provision to repeal ObamaCare’s Individual Mandate fine. Over 52,000 Iowans paid this fine in 2015, and 82% of them had incomes between $10,000 and $50,000. The House would do well to follow the Senate’s lead by supporting the provision repealing the Obama/Roberts ‘ObamaCare tax’ going forward.” Background: An independent analysis of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, prepared by the Tax Foundation, shows that the legislation will result in the creation of 975,000 jobs nationally, including 9,600 in Iowa, over ten years. The same analysis indicates that a middle-income family in Iowa will see a gain in after tax-income of $2,246 over ten years. 89,133 taxpayers in the 4th District itemize their taxes. As a result of the standard deduction being increased from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals (and from $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples), many filers will have simpler taxes and a larger total deduction to take. 58,340 taxpayers in the 4th District claim the child tax credit; the legislation increases the credit from $1,000 per child to $1,600 per child. H.R. 1 provides relief from the unfair “Death Tax,” which often falls hardest on family-owned farms and small businesses, by doubling the exemption and fully repealing the tax in seven years. H.R. 1 contains a provision allowing businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment. H.R. 1 lowers the corporate tax rate from 35%, the highest in the industrialized world, to 20%. This change will stimulate job creation and encourage more American companies to return jobs and business operations to the United States rather than send them abroad. In many cases, ObamaCare premiums are so high, that Americans are forced to pay the unjust ‘Individual Mandate’ fine rather than purchase insurance which doesn’t suit their needs. The ObamaCare Individual Mandate Tax, as designated by United States Supreme Court Justice John Roberts, falls disproportionately on Low-Income earners. In Iowa, 82% of those paying the ObamaCare tax make less than $50,000/yr. This figure is 80% nationally. Repealing the Individual Mandate would save more than $300 billion over ten years. The Rules Committee refused to consider any amendments to the legislation. As a result, Congressman King’s H.R. 176- New IDEA legislation, which King offered before the committee, did not receive a vote. Congressman King continues to work for the adoption of his legislation, which would save an additional $254 billion over ten years by eliminating tax deductions employers who hire illegal aliens are currently able to take. ###
11.14.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King releases the following video of his exchange with Attorney General Jeff Sessions during a House Judiciary Committee oversight hearing this morning. During questioning, Congressman King asked the Attorney General about the constitutionality of the unlawful Obama-era “Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals” (DACA) program. In his reply, Attorney General Sessions agreed not only with King’s position that Obama’s decision to enact this unconstitutional Amnesty program for illegal aliens was “not proper,” but also with King’s position that DACA conflicts with existing immigration law and would require Congressional, not Executive Branch, action to renew. King and Sessions also discussed the nation’s need for more Immigration Law Judges to handle the current backlog of cases, and King’s belief that the Department of Justice should revisit former F.B.I Director Comey’s erroneous use of “intent” (a standard that does not appear in the applicable criminal statute) to exonerate Hillary Clinton for mishandling classified information. On DACA’s Lack of Constitutional Authority: Congressman King: “As I recall you made a public statement some time back about the Constitutionality of the policy that was implemented by President Obama. Would you care to reiterate that position today? Attorney General Sessions: “Well, the president, President Obama, indicated multiple times that he felt that DACA, he didn't have the power to do DACA in the way it was done. And eventually they must have changed their mind and executed this policy to make persons in the country unlawfully and give them lawful status, work permits, and even participation in Social Security. I felt for some time that was not proper. A federal district court in Texas so held. And the fifth circuit court of appeals also so held that it was unlawful. What happened was we worked on the research but the department of homeland security withdrew the policy because it was not defensible, in my view.” (Emphasis added.) On DACA’s conflict with the existing Rule of Law: Congressman King: “There's a lot of public dialogue about what kind of legislation might be passed in conjunction with the DACA policy. That's up in the air right now. I'm noticing the Democrats are saying ‘we're going to have everything we want on DACA or we'll shut the government down.’ It causes me to think about what should happen if congress reaches an impasse and there is no passage of any legislation to extend the DACA policy. If the president should decide on or before that march 5 date - - that he wants to extend the policy, what would your position be?” Attorney General Sessions: “That's hypothetical; I don't think I should speculate on that. I do think Congress will have to give it thought. We have a law now. It's in place. Congress passed it. And Congress would have to change it.” (Emphasis added.) ###
11.08.2017	Washington, D.C.- In Case You Missed It: In an op-ed published today, Breitbart Senior Editor-at-Large Joel B. Pollak writes that Republicans should pass an amendment adding Congressman Steve King’s H.R. 176- New IDEA legislation to the tax reform package, H.R. 1. The op-ed is entitled “Republicans Should Use Tax Reform to Deal with Obamacare and Immigration.” Excerpts: “First, Republicans should simplify the tax proposal, focusing on the reduction in the corporate tax rate, which is the only “no-brainer” in the bill and is certain to bring in more revenue. The task of simplifying the income tax brackets, and stripping out distortionary tax deductions, may have to be tackled later. Second, Republicans should add two amendments to the tax bill. One is a proposal to repeal the individual mandate of Obamacare. The individual mandate is the most constitutionally problematic part of the bill, and the essence of what Republicans opposed in 2010. Repealing the mandate is also the only way to reform the system without imposing more costs on patients, at least directly. The rest of the system can be addressed further down the road. A similar “skinny repeal” proposal failed in the Senate on a standalone vote, but it would likely pass when bundled into a must-pass bill like tax reform, which even moderate Republicans would be reluctant to be seen opposing. The other amendment should be the “New IDEA” bill, already proposed by Rep. Steve King (R-IA) as an addition to the tax reform package. It would prevent employers from expensing wages and benefits paid to illegal aliens. That would not, of course, solve the country’s illegal immigration problem, but it would be an important first step.” Read the whole thing: here. Background: On Monday, King and 11 of his House colleagues sent a letter to Chairman Kevin Brady asking the Ways and Means Committee to include King’s HR 176- New IDEA (Illegal Deduction Elimination Act) into H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Congressman Steve King has also published an op-ed arguing for the inclusion of New IDEA in the tax reform legislation. That op-ed can be found on Congressman King’s website, or in its published form. An analysis by the Center for Immigration Studies found that King’s legislation would raise more than a quarter of a Trillion ($254 billion) in revenue over ten years. ###
11.06.2017	Congressman Steve King announces today that he is asking Chairman Kevin Brady of the House Ways and Means Committee to include King’s New IDEA (Illegal Deduction Elimination Act) legislation as a component of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. King’s legislation, HR 176- The New IDEA Act, amends the Internal Revenue Code to make it unlawful for employers to deduct wages and benefits paid to and on behalf of an illegal alien. New IDEA also makes the federal E-Verify Program permanent. King, joined by 11 of his colleagues, made the request in a letter sent to Chairman Brady today. “Including this legislation in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is the right action for the American taxpayer—it preserves the rule of law and provides a significant tax savings. The Center for Immigration Studies (CIS) has estimated that eliminating deductibility for unlawful employment would increase federal tax revenues by approximately $25.4 billion per year, which is $254 billion over 10 years. This amount more than pays for any increase in the deficit over the limit set by reconciliation. As we continue to debate the merits of this bill, and attempt to establish a more equitable system of taxation while ensuring that it does not contribute to our nation’s fiscal challenges, I can think of no better single piece of legislative language to include in this landmark tax bill.” The signatories to King’s letter asking King’s New IDEA be included in the tax reform legislation include: Rep. Louie Gohmert, Rep. Paul Gosar, Rep. Mo Brooks, Rep. Matt Gaetz, Rep. Andy Biggs, Rep. Randy Weber, Rep. Lou Barletta, Rep. Scott DesJarlais, Rep. Duncan Hunter, Rep. Brian Babin, and Rep. Scott Perry. ###
11.06.2017	In Case You Missed It: Congressman Steve King was featured by the House Agriculture Committee on Friday, November 3rd as part of the Committee’s “#FarmBillFriday” information series on Twitter. In his featured video, King discusses the importance of agriculture to Iowa’s 4th Congressional District, and emphasizes the importance of getting the Farm Bill done. King is a member of the House Agriculture Committee, and serves on the Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture and the Subcommittee on Nutrition. Excerpts: “We raise a lot of corn here, a lot of soybeans here, and a lot of eggs, and turkeys, and hogs, and cattle. That’s the foundation of the agriculture district that I represent. We’re covered with family farms and a deep tradition going back to the sod that was turned over first by the pioneers that came here in covered wagons. As I travel around this district, we’ve been picking up advice at Ag advisory committee meetings all over these 39 counties. They’ve given us good advice, and I’m sharing that advice right now with other members on the Ag Committee, and of course our staff, which does a great job. We’ll be working together to produce a good Farm Bill, and I want to see that out on time if we can, get something to the president’s desk about 2018, before the next harvest. This is the 2017 crop, let’s get her done before the 2018 crop.” ###
11.01.2017	Historic Victory for Pro-Life Movement as Lincoln Glenn Miller (18 Weeks) becomes Youngest Person to Testify before Congress Washington, D.C.- Chairman Steve King released the following statements, videos, and op-ed at the conclusion of today’s historic Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice hearing on H.R. 490, the Heartbeat Protection Act. Today’s hearing on King’s legislation featured the testimony via ultrasound of Lincoln Glenn Miller, an unborn child who, at 18 weeks, is believed to be the youngest person to ever testify before Congress. King’s legislation is popular with the American public, with polls showing 70% support for the enactment of heartbeat protections against abortion. Congressman Steve King’s Opening Statement: (Click the link for video). Excerpt from King’s Statement: “The 14th Amendment codifies the language of our Declaration of Independence. Thomas Jefferson set up prioritized rights in our Declaration with this more familiar language, “We hold these Truths to be self-evident, that all Men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness.” In both cases, Life is the paramount right and cannot be taken without due process. Liberty is a right secondary to Life. No one in exercising their right to Liberty has a legitimate Constitutional or moral claim to take the Life of another. The question before us, since America has held the right to Life as a sacred right from God (endowed by their Creator), the question before us is not, “Can the Lives of innocent babies be taken in exercising the right to the Liberty of the mother?” But rather, “At what instant does Life begin?” Science cannot precisely pinpoint the instant of conception but the ultrasound proves beyond any doubt that Life is present every time there is a Heartbeat. The promises of our Founding Fathers must be restored to the voiceless and most vulnerable. Liberty can never again become the excuse to take the Life of another.” Congressman King Offers Lincoln Glenn Miller’s Historic Ultrasound Testimony (Click the link for Video). Lincoln Glenn Miller’s Full Ultrasound Video (Click the Link for Video). Full Subcommittee Hearing Video (Click the Link for Video): King OP-ED: “Protecting the Unborn Reaffirms Jefferson’s Truths” In case you missed it, Congressman King’s op-ed in support of HR 490 was published today by Breitbart News. The op-ed may be read here. Excerpts: “In the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson articulated fundamental truths upon which the United States of America was founded. These truths included that each of us possesses a set of unalienable rights granted by God. Included among these God-given prioritized rights are the rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Recognition of these inherent rights once helped propel our people into revolt against a tyrant. Respect for our God-given rights is an essential component of our American Civilization. Congress has a responsibility to ensure the Jeffersonian Truths of the Declaration of Independence are protected for current and future generations of Americans. Of these rights, the right to life received primacy in Jefferson’s list for a reason: without the right to life, how would an individual’s rights become vested? How could any other rights be realized if one’s very life could be taken away by another who is exercising their right to liberty or pursuit of happiness? Jefferson articulated a prioritized set of rights; first the right to life, then the right to liberty, then the pursuit of happiness. Each right was carefully prioritized in sequential order because the right to life trumps all other rights. No one can take a human life in exercising their liberties and no one can take a life or take away the liberty of another in their pursuit of happiness. If the right to life can be taken by another, then no right of anyone is protected. . . It’s time that Americans reclaimed our birthright, including the right to life, from the bloody hands of those who have betrayed Jefferson’s vision, resulting in the abortions of 60 million unique gifts from God. To this end, I have introduced H.R. 490, the Heartbeat Protection Act. H.R. 490 cuts through the obscuring haze of illogical judicial rhetoric and returns the right to life to the primacy our Founding Fathers intended. Under this legislation, abortionists who end the life of an unborn child whose heart is beating will be subject to imprisonment and/or a significant financial penalty. As a matter of law, the bill will ensure that if a heartbeat can be detected, the baby is protected.” ###
10.31.2017	***Media Advisory for Wednesday, November 1*** Washington D.C.– Chairman Steve King invites media to attend two events taking place tomorrow, November 1st, 2017. The first of these events is the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice 11:30 AM EST hearing on H.R. 490, the Heartbeat Protection Act of 2017. Following the hearing, media are invited to attend a 1:00 PM EST press conference to be held at the House Triangle. Details for each event are provided below. King introduced H.R. 490 and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice. Heartbeat Protection Act Subcommittee Hearing: Who: Chairman Steve King, Subcommittee Members, Invited Witnesses What: Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice Hearing on H.R. 490, the Heartbeat Protection Act When: Wednesday, November 1 at 11:30 AM EST Where: Rayburn House Office Building, Room 2237. Confirmed Witnesses: Dr. Kathi Aultman- Dr. Aultman is a board certified Ob/Gyn, a fellow of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and an Associate Scholar at the Charlotte Lozier Institute. The Charlotte Lozier Institute is the 501(c)(3) research and education institute of the Susan B. Anthony List, an organization dedicated to pursuing policies that will reduce and ultimately end abortion. Star Parker- Parker is the Founder and President of the Center for Urban Renewal and Education (CURE), a public policy think tank that promotes market-based solutions to fight poverty. Parker has a bachelor's degree in Marketing and International Business from Woodbury University, has regularly testified before Congress, and has received numerous awards and commendations for her work on public policy issues. David Forte, Professor of Law at Cleveland State University. Forte holds degrees from Harvard College, Manchester University, England, the University of Toronto and Columbia University. Professor Forte was the inaugural holder of the Charles R. Emrick, Jr.- Calfee Halter & Griswold Endowed Chair at Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, Cleveland State University. Heartbeat Protection Act Press Conference: Who: Congressman Steve King; Invited Members of Congress; Janet Porter, President of Faith 2 Action; Invited Pro-Life Leaders What: H.R. 490 (Heartbeat Protection Act of 2017) Press Conference When: Wednesday, November 1 at 1:00 PM EST Where: House Triangle For more information, please contact John Kennedy at 202-225-4426. ###
10.26.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King announces that important pro-life legislation he introduced, H.R. 490, the Heartbeat Protection Act, will be receiving a House Judiciary Committee hearing before the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice. King is the Chairman of the Subcommittee. Who: Chairman Steve King, Invited Witnesses What: Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice Hearing on H.R. 490, the Heartbeat Protection Act When: Wednesday, November 1 at 11:30 AM EST Where: Rayburn House Office Building, Room 2237. Media are invited to attend. “Since Roe v. Wade was unconstitutionally decided in 1973, nearly 60 million innocent babies' lives have been ended by the abortion industry, all with a rubber stamp by the federal government,” said King. “Human life, beginning at the moment of conception, is sacred in all of its forms and we must protect the lives of voiceless innocents. The Heartbeat Protection Act, H.R. 490, will require all physicians, before conducting an abortion, to detect the heartbeat of the unborn child and if a heartbeat is detected, the baby is protected. I welcome this opportunity to have my legislation given in depth consideration by Congress and to bring attention to the importance of preserving each of these precious lives.” As of this writing, King’s legislation has 170 Members of Congress signed on in support of the bill, making it the most strongly supported piece of pro-life legislation currently pending before the House of Representatives. The following witnesses are confirmed to appear to testify in support of King’s “Heartbeat” legislation: 1. Dr. Kathi Aultman- Dr. Aultman is a board certified Ob/Gyn, a fellow of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and an Associate Scholar at the Charlotte Lozier Institute. The Charlotte Lozier Institute is the 501(c)(3) research and education institute of the Susan B. Anthony List, an organization dedicated to pursuing policies that will reduce and ultimately end abortion. 2. Star Parker- Parker is the Founder and President of the Center for Urban Renewal and Education (CURE), a public policy think tank that promotes market-based solutions to fight poverty. Parker has a bachelor's degree in Marketing and International Business from Woodbury University, has regularly testified before Congress, and has received numerous awards and commendations for her work on public policy issues. 3. David Forte, Professor of Law at Cleveland State University. Forte holds degrees from Harvard College, Manchester University, England, the University of Toronto and Columbia University. Professor Forte was the inaugural holder of the Charles R. Emrick, Jr.- Calfee Halter & Griswold Endowed Chair at Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, Cleveland State University. ###
10.25.2017	Congressman Steve King announced today that his Congressional District Office in Sioux City is moving to a new location. Beginning Monday, October 30th, King’s office will be located within the Federal Building, 320 6th Street, Room 122, Sioux City, Iowa 51101. The phone number and fax number for the office will remain unchanged: (712)-224-4692 (phone) and (712)-224-4693 (fax). Interested parties are encouraged to update their contact information for Congressman King’s Sioux City office. Other current tenants in Sioux City’s Federal Building include Iowa’s Senators, Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst. “When I first selected a site for our Sioux City office, I picked a downtown, street level location so the office would be as accessible as possible to the public,” said King. “Relocating to the Federal Building preserves accessibility, and offers constituents a closer proximity to our two U.S. Senators. I am pleased with the new location in the Federal Building.” The Sioux City District Office’s business hours remain unchanged. The office is open Monday thru Friday from 8:00 AM- 5:00 PM. For more information about the move, or if you are a constituent in need of assistance, please contact King’s Sioux City District Office at (712)-224-4692. ###
10.24.2017	Congressman Steve King released the following statement and photo after joining with Iowa Congressional Delegation members to meet with Governor Kim Reynolds this afternoon to discuss the Governor’s state and federal legislative priorities. During the meeting, Gov. Reynolds thanked delegation members for standing together on behalf of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), and for promoting Iowa trade. Congressman King, a member of the Congressional Biofuels Caucus, signed a letter to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt last week asking him to strengthen RFS volume requirements. In addition, King is a strong promoter of foreign trade for Iowa and he recently played an important role in persuading the government of Taiwan to purchase $2.8 billion of corn, soybeans, and wheat. “It was a pleasure to join with other members of Iowa’s Congressional Delegation to meet with my good friend, Governor Reynolds, today,” said King. “The Governor understands the needs of the state, and I enjoy working with her to advance our shared priorities, such as supporting the RFS, promoting greater agricultural trade, and repealing the unworkable ObamaCare law. Conversations with Governor Reynolds are always productive, and they help to ensure that Iowa’s state and federal policymakers are seizing opportunities to advance our state’s interests.” Congressman Steve King (right), Senator Joni Ernst, Rep. Rod Blum, and Rep. Dave Loebsack meet with Gov. Kim Reynolds (right)
10.11.2017	As the fourth round of NAFTA negotiations start in Washington, D.C., Congressman Steve King is releasing a copy of a letter he sent to United States Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer (USTR) reminding him that, under a federal law including language King authored, trade agreements cannot change immigration law in the United States or obligate the United States to grant or expand access to visas to Canadian and Mexican nationals. “In 2016, I authored language which prohibits the executive branch from including either immigration or climate change provisions in trade agreement negotiations,” said King. “These provisions were signed into law by Barack Obama. The Constitution places authority over immigration in the legislative branch, not in the executive. It is important to remind our USTR that Congress is dedicated to the preservation of these provisions, and that Speaker Ryan and I are in full agreement on the topic.” Text of Letter: August 14, 2017 The Honorable Robert E. Lighthizer United States Trade Representative Office of the United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer: With the first round of negotiations for the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) between the United States, Canada and Mexico scheduled to be held in Washington, D.C. from August 16th through the 20th, I write to express my concerns that the proposed agreement includes provisions related to U.S. immigration laws, particularly any provision obligating the United States to grant access or to expand access to visas issued under section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 101(a)(15)). As you know, under NAFTA, the TN nonimmigrant classification permits qualified Canadian and Mexican citizens to seek temporary entry into the United States to engage in business activities at a professional level. Such professionals include accountants, engineers, lawyers, pharmacists, scientists, and teachers—excellent positions that could be filled by American citizens, providing opportunity and advancement for individuals, economic security for families and a lessening welfare burden on the Americans taxpayer. I understand that the Administration is renegotiating NAFTA under trade promotion authority (TPA), which is also known as fast-track authority. TPA allows President Trump wide authority to independently broker a trade agreement before submitting it to Congress for a vote that can be approved or denied, but not amended or filibustered. Particularly considering this process, it is important to ensure that the Article I Constitutional authority given to the United States Congress alone to establish immigration law is respected through the renegotiation. It is essential to our duties under the law that the representatives of the people ensure that such policy is not being written through trade agreements negotiated by the Executive Branch. This is a long-held view of the Legislative Branch. In 2005, bipartisan letters from both the Senate and House Judiciary committees were sent to USTR, expressing the view of the chambers that immigration policy in trade agreements is unconstitutional, limiting Congress’s ability to debate, amend, and later modify the immigration provisions. The Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 passed both chambers of Congress and was signed into law on February 24, 2016. Language that I offered was included in Section 914 of the law, PL 114-125, and states that: ‘‘(14) to ensure that trade agreements do not require changes to the immigration laws of the United States or obligate the United States to grant access or expand access to visas issued under section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)).’’The effect of this language is that trade agreements cannot require changes to U.S. immigration laws. Specifically, the effect of this language is that any provision in new trade agreements that would obligate the United States to grant or expand access to visas would not be consistent with the negotiating objectives in the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act. If visas are included in NAFTA, the remedy is moving a Consultation and Compliance Resolution under the Act through the Ways and Means Committee through litigation. I request an explanation of your position on visas in the renegotiation of NAFTA. Furthermore, I urge you to consider the illegality of a NAFTA renegotiation that violates the dictates of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 by requiring changes to U.S. immigration laws. Sincerely, Steve King (IA-04) Member of Congress ###
10.03.2017	Congressman Steve King released the following statement celebrating the House passage of important pro-life legislation he cosponsored. The legislation, H.R. 36, the “Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act,” seeks to end abortions after an unborn child has attained the post-fertilization age of 20 weeks. There is substantial medical evidence that an unborn child is capable of experiencing pain at least by 20 weeks after fertilization, if not earlier. Under the legislation, an abortionist killing an unborn baby during or past the 20th week could be subject to both criminal penalties and civil remedies. The “Pain-Capable” legislation passed the House of Representatives today on a vote of 237-189, with King voting in favor of passage. “Each one of these lives is so utterly precious, and we’re not going to stop," said King. "We’re going to defend every life that we can; we’re going to protect every life we can. We’re going to do the right thing that we can for the babies that we can save.” To watch Congressman King’s remarks, click here. Background: Pain receptors (nociceptors) are present throughout the unborn child’s entire body and nerves link these receptors to the brain’s thalamus and subcortical plate by no later than 20 weeks after fertilization. By 8 weeks after fertilization, the unborn child reacts to touch. After 20 weeks, the unborn child reacts to stimuli that would be recognized as painful if applied to an adult human, for example, by recoiling. America is one of 7 nations that allow elective abortion after 20 weeks (along with North Korea, China, Vietnam, Singapore, Netherlands and Canada.) Congressman King has introduced H.R. 490, “The Heartbeat Protection Act” which would protect unborn babies prior to the 20 week threshold established in the “Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act.” Under the King legislation, “if a heartbeat is detected, the baby is protected.” King’s legislation currently has 168 cosponsors. ###
10.02.2017	Congressman Steve King released the following statement after writing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to express concerns about the Administration’s decision to cut $95.7 million, and to delay $195 million, in aid to Egypt. Congressman King considers Egypt, under the leadership of President Abdel Fattah El Sisi, to be a key ally in the region and an important counterweight in the fight against terrorism fueled by the Muslim Brotherhood. Congressman King was joined on his letter by Congressman Trent Franks (AZ-08), Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Congressman Robert Pittenger (NC-09), and Congressman Doug LaMalfa (CA-01). “President Sisi has boldly promoted greater tolerance for religious minorities by fostering a strong and unprecedented relationship with the Coptic Christian community and by constitutionally guaranteeing the reconstruction and restoration of all churches that had been damaged by acts of the Muslim Brotherhood,” said King. “Egypt is a key player in the fight against Islamic Radicalism, and these suggested cuts appear to contradict the Trump Administration’s own stated desire to support Egypt and its people in the fight against terror.” In a separate action, King accused the State Department of missing “historic opportunities” not only in Egypt, but by failing to recognize the results of the recent independence referendum held by Kurds in Iraq. In this referendum, 92% of those voting opted for independence from Iraq. “By cutting Egypt’s funds and by declaring that the Kurdish independence referendum ‘lacks legitimacy,’ the State Department is missing out on historic opportunities to strengthen American efforts to combat Islamic terrorism in the region,” said King. “Both of these actions are relics from a misguided Obama-era approach to the Middle East which did little but embolden Islamic terrorists from the Muslim Brotherhood to the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). We should work with the Kurds to help them cement their status as an independent nation and an ally, not side with the rogue elements in Turkey and Iran who reject the creation of a Kurdish state.” ###
09.26.2017	Congressman Steve King released the following statement regarding Iraqi Kurds participation in a non-binding referendum to determine whether the Kurdistani Region of Northern Iraq should become an independent country. “Iraq’s Kurds were asked whether they wanted to sever ties with Iraq and become an independent nation. I hope they have seized this historic opportunity for self-determination. The Kurdish fighting force, the Peshmerga, have been effective in the fight against the radical Islamic terrorists that comprise the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). The Kurds are a proud, independent people who have long been persecuted and who have earned the right to form an independent state. They would be a long-term ally of the United States, and I would call upon them to protect the rights of religious minorities, including the Christians of the Ninevah Plain and the Yezidis of Shengal, should they choose independence.” Background: The Kurds comprise the largest stateless nation in the world; their population is projected to number between 30 and 40 million. They are spread throughout the Middle East, mainly concentrated in Turkey, Iran, Iraq, and Syria. On June 7th, 2017, Kurdish Regional Government president Masoud Barzani announced that the region had set September 25th, 2017 as the date for a referendum on independence. On July 28th, 2017 Congressman King was the keynote speaker at a symposium titled, “The Kurdistan Region: Strategic U.S. Ally in a Tough Neighborhood.” The purpose of the symposium was to discuss the referendum effort and to discuss the Kurds’ ongoing efforts to protect religious minorities in the region from Islamic persecution. ###
09.26.2017	Congressman Steve King today released the following video of his appearance before the Veteran’s Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on Health. King was asked by the committee to testify this morning in support of legislation he has introduced which seeks to improve the quality of wheelchairs that are provided to veterans with service-connected disabilities through the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). King’s legislation is H.R. 1943, the “Restoring Maximum Mobility to Our Nation’s Veterans Act of 2017.” During his remarks, Congressman King recognized Sioux City’s Bud Day, a Medal of Honor recipient, and Jack Zimmerman, a disabled veteran who lost his legs to an improvised explosive device, as inspirations for his bill. Complete Video of Congressman King’s Testimony can be seen: HERE. Video of Congressman King citing Bud Day and Jack Zimmerman as inspirations for this legislation can be seen: HERE. From King’s Submitted Testimony: “In the aftermath of Iraq and Afghanistan, we have strived in Congress to halt veteran suicide. We have worked to ensure that every veteran has access to the health care and services they need. Sadly, the somber statistics demonstrate that we have far to go to adequately take care of our veterans. That’s why I champion H.R. 1943, which amends Section 1701 of Title 38 of the United Code to ensure wheelchairs provided to our veterans include ‘enhanced power wheelchairs, multi-environmental wheelchairs, track wheelchairs, stair-climbing wheelchairs, and other power-driven mobility devices.’ This legislation ensures that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may provide a wheelchair to a veteran because the wheelchair restores an ability that relates exclusively to participation in a recreational activity.” Background: Under current law, the Veterans Health Administration does not allow a veteran with a service-connected disability to receive “motorized and power equipment or equipment for personal mobility intended solely for a recreational leisure activity” because the VHA wrongly presumes that such devices “do not typically support a rehabilitative role.” The result of the existing policy is to deny wounded veterans access to medical equipment that would, if granted, allow them greater access to recreational activities such as hunting and fishing. Congressman King believes that the ability to undertake activities like these, to the fullest degree possible and even in the face of disability, are rehabilitative and are critical to ensuring our nation’s veterans are as healthy as possible in body, mind, emotions, and spirit. Our nation currently faces an epidemic of veteran suicides, and Congressman King believes H.R. 1943 helps promote the care and support that our nation’s veterans have earned. ###
09.15.2017	Congressman Steve King released the following statement and photos after joining with Lieutenant Governor Adam Gregg, IEDA COO Rita Grimm, Iowa Corn’s Mark Heckman, Iowa Soybean’s Rolland Schnell, and Taiwanese government officials today in Des Moines to finalize a deal in which the Republic of China (Taiwan) will purchase American corn, soybeans, and wheat worth an estimated $2.8 billion. Congressman King recently traveled to Taiwan to personally meet with Taiwanese officials, including Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-Wen and her highest ranking government ministers, on behalf of Iowa’s corn and soybean producers to successfully pitch this agreement. Much of the corn and soybeans to be purchased by the Taiwanese government will be grown on Iowa’s farms. “It was a pleasure to welcome Taiwan’s representatives to Des Moines today, and I give their pledge to purchase $2.8 billion worth of corn, soybeans, and wheat a big ‘Thumbs Up!’,” said King. “It is important for Iowa agriculture that we work to open foreign markets to our home-grown products. This is a win-win deal which promotes both Iowa’s economic interests and also Taiwan’s food and national security needs.” Congressman Steve King (second from right), Lt. Governor Adam Gregg (center, left), and representatives of the Taiwanese government give this $2.8 billion agriculture deal a big “thumbs up!” Congressman Steve King (center, standing), IEDA COO Rita Grimm, (right, standing), Iowa Corn’s Mark Heckman (center, seated), Lt. Governor Adam Gregg (right, seated) and Iowa Soybeans’ Roland Schell (right, back to camera) and Taiwanese representatives finalize the trade deal. Background: Under the terms of the agreement struck with Taiwan, the Taiwanese are pledging to purchase between 359.1 and 370.1 million bushels of U.S. grains, worth a projected total value of $2.8 billion, in 2018-2019. The grains included in this deal are corn, soybeans, and wheat. Congressman King recently traveled to Taiwan to represent Iowa’s interest in concluding this trade deal. During his meetings, Congressman King successfully encouraged the Taiwanese to enter into this purchase agreement. In order to solidify Taiwan’s intent, King personally met with President Tsai Ing-Wen, Minister of Agriculture Tsung-Hsien Lin, President of the Legislature Jia-Chyuan Su, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. David Tawei Lee, Minster of National Defense Admiral Tze-Chun Pu and Minister of Economic Affairs Mei-Hua Wang. On Wednesday, September 13, Congressman King participated in a signing ceremony in Washington D.C., in which the Taiwanese government formally announced their intention to enter into this trade agreement. Details about Wednesday’s signing ceremony can be found here. ###
09.13.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after joining with representatives of the Republic of China (Taiwan) at a ceremony to sign “Letters of Intent” announcing Taiwan’s decision to make significant purchases of American corn, soybeans, and wheat in 2018 and 2019. Under the terms of the letters signed today, Taiwan is declaring it will purchase 359.1 to 370.1 million bushels of U.S. grains, worth a projected total value of $2.8 billion, over the next two years. Today’s signing ceremony follows Congressman King’s strong advocacy efforts on behalf of Iowa agriculture. Last month, King personally met with Taiwanese officials including President Tsai Ing-Wen, Minister of Agriculture Tsung-Hsien Lin, President of the Legislature Jia-Chyuan Su, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. David Tawei Lee, Minster of National Defense Admiral Tze-Chun Pu and Minister of Economic Affairs Mei-Hua Wang to encourage these government officials to pursue these agreements and to purchase more agricultural goods. “Taiwan’s decision to purchase approximately $2.8 billion of U.S. grains is good news, particularly for Iowa’s corn and soybean producers,” said King. “I look forward to welcoming the Taiwan trade delegation to the Heart of the Heartland on Friday to finalize this agreement. Taiwan is an important trading partner, and I am pleased that my efforts to encourage them to buy more American agricultural goods are paying off. When Taiwan buys American grains to feed their countrymen, Iowa’s rural economy benefits and the national defense posture of Taiwan gets stronger. Looking forward, it will be important to build on our success trading with Taiwan to expand market access for Iowa’s goods throughout Asia.” Congressman Steve King delivers remarks before signing “Letters of Intent” with Taiwan. Congressman Steve King (left) witnesses Taiwan’s signing of Letters of Intent to purchase $2.8 billion of corn, soybeans and wheat. On Friday, September 15, Congressman King will be meeting with a Taiwanese trade delegation in Iowa to finalize the trade agreements agreed to this afternoon. ###
09.08.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement following House passage of an amendment he introduced which prohibits the expenditure of federal funds by federal agencies for any new hires who have not been subjected to an E-Verify review. The King amendment was adopted by the House of Representatives on a voice vote, and it was attached to seven different appropriations bills. The seven appropriations bills to which King’s amendment has been attached are: Agriculture, Interior, Commerce/Justice/Science, Labor/Health and Human Services, Financial Services, Homeland Security, and Transportation/Housing Urban Development. “Current law requires the federal government to use E-Verify to enhance enforcement of federal immigration law in all hirings,” said King. “However, it’s been brought to my attention that it isn’t consistent across the different departments and we need to ensure that it is.” Background: The E-Verify system is operated by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). E-Verify checks the Social Security numbers of newly hired employees against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security records to determine work eligibility. King’s immigration law enforcement amendment seeks to ensure that jobs within federal agencies are not being taken by aliens who are in the country illegally. King’s amendment not only helps to ensure agency compliance with current federal law, but also serves to protect the interests of American workers seeking jobs within their own government. ###
09.08.2017	Congressman Steve King announced today that he has introduced H.R. 3688, the “Winnebago Land Transfer Act of 2017”. King’s legislation seeks to restore several tracts of land located in Woodbury and Monona Counties to the Winnebago Tribe. In 1976, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals found that the United States lacked authority to take the land through the eminent domain process because Congress had not taken the necessary actions to abrogate the Treaty of March 8, 1865. The treaty set apart the land at issue “for occupation and future home of the Winnebago Indians, forever.” Despite this court ruling, the land currently remains in the possession of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers due to the federal government’s improper use of the eminent domain power. “My legislation corrects a historical wrong that dates back to the 1970’s,” said King. “At that time, the federal government improperly used the eminent domain process to take land from the Winnebago Tribe even though their rights to that land are protected by treaty. H.R. 3368 requires that this land be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Winnebago Tribe subject to the same terms and conditions that were agreed to in the Treaty of March 8, 1865. After over 40 years, it is time the federal government returned this property to the people with the lawful claim.” Congressman King’s legislation is cosponsored by Representative Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE). The Monona County Boards of Supervisors supports King’s legislation. ###
07.28.2017	Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the United States Senate defeated a “skinny repeal” bill that would have allowed the Senate to continue working to repeal ObamaCare, a goal long sought by King and a priority of President Trump. “Last night, the Senate voted to leave ObamaCare unchanged by a vote of 51-49. ObamaCare is a law that ought not exist, and I will continue to advocate for its complete repeal.” “Obamacare passed initially by one vote: that vote belonging to Senator Al Franken whose 2008 Senate victory was tainted with accusations of election irregularities. Among the votes saving ObamaCare last night was Lisa Murkowski’s. Murkowski is a Senator who was initially appointed to her position by her father, and whose 2010 write-in campaign was essentially a revolt against GOP primary voters.” “As a final point, John McCain recently told the Senate he would return and ‘give all of you cause to regret the nice things you said about me.’ He kept his word.”
07.28.2017	Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing the “Census Accuracy Act of 2017.” King’s legislation seeks to improve the quality of data collected by the United States Census, particularly with regard to its ability to document the number of aliens who are in the country illegally. “For the last 15 years, I have heard the same figure advanced by Amnesty proponents regarding the number of illegal aliens in the country. I do not believe that the static number they offer is accurate as it seems more like a well-established talking point. In fact, I believe the number of illegal aliens in the country is far higher than many suppose. The Census should be better equipped to measure this number so that policy makers can take appropriate actions to reduce the deleterious impact illegal immigration has on our nation.” King’s legislation will amend the census questionnaire to ensure that those answering are provided a question regarding whether they are citizens, aliens who are in the country lawfully, or aliens in the country illegally. In addition, the bill will require that those who answer that they are aliens in the country lawfully identify which federal program or law granted them the status that they are claiming. A copy of Congressman King’s bill is available here.
07.28.2017	Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H.R. 3486, the “Ending the Sanctuary Capitol Policy Act of 2017:” “The Capitol Police, a federal law enforcement agency, do not have explicit statutory authority to enforce our immigration laws,” said King. “Without clear authority they are not investigating the immigration status of protesters openly claiming they are here illegally while disrupting Committee proceedings and shutting down Congressional offices. My bill, ‘Ending the Sanctuary Capitol Policy Act,’ simply empowers a federal law enforcement agency to enforce federal law. The House and Senate cannot call for an end to sanctuary cities while their offices serve as sanctuaries for lawlessness. The Rule of Law rests on reliable enforcement everywhere and Congress needs to take the sanctuary plank out of its own eye.” To view the original bill text, click here.
07.27.2017	Congressman Steve King released the following video of statements he made during Judiciary Committee debate of legislation requiring the Attorney General to provide copies of any document, record, audio recording, memo, correspondence, or other communication that refers or relates to a number of troubling aspects of James Comey’s tenure as FBI director. In the course of his remarks, Congressman King recounted a litany of facts and events that reveal the corruption that surrounds many of the nation’s most prominent Democrats, as well as their disturbing pattern of using American taxpayer money to interfere in foreign elections. King’s entire remarks can be viewed here. King concluded his remarks by asserting the trail of Democratic election corruption leads to Barack Obama, and that the examples he cites should be investigated fully. Excerpted remarks: On Barack Obama’s election interference in other countries: “It’s pretty clear the Obama administration sent their people over to Israel to work against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Pretty much openly. Significant dollars invested in that campaign over there. The President of the United States, with at least the moral support of the people that had worked for him, in the country of Israel, [sought] to shift the results of the election against the seated Prime Minister, Bibi Netanyahu.” … “The Obama administration is a long ways from clean on this, as far as being involved in elections in other countries.” On George Soros’ Use of Taxpayer Money to interfere in election in the Balkans: “I just came back, not long ago, from the Balkans. . .there I learned the United States government, borrowing money from China and Saudi Arabia, had handed over at least $5,000,000 in contracts transferred through USAID into George Soros’s organizations that were used to manipulate elections in the Balkans.” On the need to reopen investigations into Huma Abedin and Anthony Weiner: “The long string that we should be looking at with this investigation and special counsel that is our request here goes a long ways back. It goes clear back to Huma Abedin, Anthony Weiner, 650,000 emails, which we still have access to.” On James Comey’s sham investigation of Hillary Clinton: “This [Comey’s Investigation of Clinton] is what looks like, on its face, a sham investigation. Plus, they destroyed a tremendous amount of information: at least 30,000 emails, crushed hard drives, bought bleach bit, hired outside contractors to scrub emails up. And we’re to take James Comey’s word for this, that there wasn’t enough substance there to bring a prosecution, even though a year ago, July 5th, James Comey delivered 15 minutes of a summary of prosecution that was completely convincing to me until we got down to the last couple sentences of that presentation which was, ‘well, we can’t prove intent.’ Well, curiously there is no requirement for intent in the two statutes that appear to be violated.” “I look back in the records to the previous October and previous April, Barack Obama stated into the news media record ‘Hillary Clinton would never intend to put our national security at risk; Hillary Clinton would never intend to harm America’s security. That’s the previous October and April. Well, James Comey latched onto that word, ‘intend’, and they made up new law and gave Hillary Clinton an exemption for this intent that they said they couldn’t prove which is absolutely proven by the facts [Comey] delivered to us in the summary that day.” On Loretta Lynch: “Not only does this trail lead through Hillary Clinton and James Comey, but the Loretta Lynch component of this as well. When you put this in place, and look at the example of them on the tarmac, it’s hard to imagine they sat there for 45 minutes and discussed grandchildren.” On allegations Democratic Operatives went to the Ukraine to get dirt on Candidate Trump: “That brings me to Alexandra Chalupa who went off as a DNC contractor to Ukraine to try to gather dirt on the Trump people. So, bringing this around, Mr. Chairman, I’ll conclude with this: the trail leads also to Barack Obama and we need to investigate all of this.” ###
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following remarks after voting for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The NDAA authorizes appropriations for military activities of the Department of Defense. King delivered these remarks during a Facebook Live broadcast this afternoon. “On balance, it’s a very good bill to move forward to support our military. It provides an increase in pay for all of our military personally actively protecting our defenses. It protects our bases, at least for this round, so we won’t be shutting down bases. It keeps Guantanamo Bay alive and functioning and prohibits it from being shut down.” In his full remarks, Congressman King also pointed to the defeat of amendments that would have prevented the military from utilizing biofuels, the increase in funding for missile defense programs, and the reforms which expand TRICARE eligibility as important considerations for his vote. The NDAA passed the House on a vote of 344-81. In addition to King’s support, the NDAA also has been endorsed by the Iowa National Guard. To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, either click the embedded image or clink the link here. If you would like to watch these Facebook Live events as they happen, you are invited to follow Congressman King on Facebook under the @SteveKingIA tag. ###
07.13.2017	Congressman Steve King today introduced a resolution calling upon courts within the United Kingdom to allow Charles “Charlie” William Gard, and his mother, Constance Rhoda Kelly Yates, to seek innovative medical care in any country where such care may be available. Charlie Gard is a critically ill, eleven month old child whose parents want the opportunity to bring him to the United States so that he may receive an experimental treatment for his rare genetic condition. Charlie’s parents have raised over $1.6 million to pursue this treatment, and they have received invitations from specialists in the United States and Italy who believe they can assist Charlie. “It will be a horrific affront to every parent’s innate right to care for their children if British courts refuse to allow Charlie Gard’s parents to pursue offered treatment for their son,” said King. “Congress should pass my resolution and take a firm stand for the rights of parents and for the life of little Charlie. British courts should not be allowed to subject an innocent, eleven month old child to the equivalent of a death sentence when hope for a cure exists, and when his parents wish to pursue it at their own expense. The world is watching this story unfold, and the British legal system is being judged harshly.” King’s resolution reads as follows: “IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Mr. KING of Iowa submitted the following resolution; RESOLUTION Encouraging the courts of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to allow Charles William Gard and Constance Rhoda Keely Yates to pursue innovative medical care for their son. Whereas human life is sacred and deserving of care and preservation at all stages of development; Whereas a baby is not a statistic to be managed but rather a life, to be supported in every way possible; Whereas an experimental treatment exists in the United States that could prolong the life of Charles Matthew William Gard (‘‘Charlie’’); Whereas a hospital in the United States has offered to admit Charlie for such treatment; Whereas President Donald J. Trump, moved by Charlie’s struggle, has extended a hand of help to his parents from the United States; and Whereas parents retain an inherent right to protect and provide for their children, and to seek out all resources and services available to secure life-saving treatments, wherever they may be found, for their children: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the courts of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Island and the European Court of Human Rights should allow Charles William Gard and Constance Rhoda Keely Yates to pursue innovative medical care for their son, Charles Matthew William Gard (‘‘Charlie’’ ), in any country where such care may be available, in order to give Charlie the chance to be cured in accordance with his parents’ wishes.” In recent days, figures such as President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, and Pope Francis have expressed their hope that the UK Courts respect the parents’ wishes. Charlie Gard’s parents are pursuing relief before Britain’s High Court, the Court of Appeal, and the Supreme Court of London. To date, the British courts have sided with a determination made by London’s Great Ormond Hospital that the child should die, despite his parent’s desire to seek available treatment elsewhere at their own expense ###
07.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following photo and statement after meeting this afternoon with members of the Iowa Farm Bureau Federation. Representatives of the Iowa Farm Bureau were in Washington today to offer their perspective on legislative issues coming before Congress, including the reauthorization of the Farm Bill, the need for regulatory reform, and the importance of ensuring market access for Iowa’s agricultural products in international trade. “It was a pleasure meeting with the Iowa Farm Bureau to discuss the reauthorization of the Farm Bill and other important priorities for Iowa agriculture,” said King. “Agriculture is the lifeblood of the 4th District, and I always appreciate receiving the input and insights that Iowa Farm Bureau members offer about how the actions we take in Washington affect them. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I will be taking an active role shaping the Farm Bill, and I appreciate having the opportunity to hear firsthand from those who have a stake in making sure Congress gets it right.” Congressman King meets in his office with members of the Iowa Farm Bureau. Communities throughout the 4th District were well represented in the meeting with Congressman King. The Iowa Farm Bureau Federation members attending today’s meeting live in Everly, Westside, Schaller, Manson, Mason City, Grundy Center, Rock Valley and Moville. ###
07.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King and Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) have jointly introduced important gun rights legislation that removes silencers and mufflers from federal regulation. The legislation is known as the “Silencers Help Us Save Hearing” Act of 2017 (SHUSH Act). If enacted, the SHUSH Act would remove suppressors from federal regulation, ensuring that they are treated the same as other gun accessories. As a result, the purchase of a suppressor would no longer be subjected to the costly and burdensome process required under current law. “Allowing gun owners to purchase suppressors absent federal regulation is important not just because they have a Constitutional right to do so, but because there is no rationale behind treating suppressors differently than other firearm accessories,” said King. “While liberal elites and Hollywood have demonized suppressors as something that criminals use, in truth suppressors serve a safe and rational purpose for law abiding gun owners like any other accessory. Suppressors reduce muzzle blast and recoil, improving accuracy and allowing for more effective communication on shooting ranges, or on a hunt, ensuring better safety. They should be treated like other gun accessories.” Senator Mike Lee offered the following comments upon the introduction of his Senate companion legislation: “Suppressors can make shooting safer for the millions of hunters and sportsmen that exercise their Constitutional right to use firearms every year. The current process for obtaining a suppressor is far too expensive and burdensome. Our bill would remove these unnecessary federal regulations and make it easier for firearms users to protect themselves.” The King-Lee legislation has the strong support of the National Association for Gun Rights (NAGR), a Second Amendment advocacy group composed of over 4.5 million members. NAGR President Dudley Brown has indicated that this bill will be a priority item for his organization. “Rep. King and Sen. Lee are champions for gun rights, and their joint legislation displays their dedication to restoring the Second Amendment rights of all law-abiding Americans,” said Brown. “Most in Congress who support silencer freedom want full deregulation, and that’s exactly what King and Lee are doing with H.R. 3139 and S. 1505.” In the House of Representatives, Congressman King’s legislation has been designated H.R. 3139. Senator Lee’s Senate companion bill is designated S. 1505. H.R. 3139 has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee and to the House Ways and Means Committee. Congressman King is a member of the House Judiciary Committee. ###
07.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the Environmental Protection Agencies (EPA) proposed Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). The EPA’s proposed new standard provides for production of conventional ethanol at the maximum of 15 billion gallons next year, in accordance with the statutory maximum. Unfortunately, the proposed RFS reduces the level of cellulosic biofuels to 238 million gallons in 2018, and failed to adjust the 2019 biomass-based diesel standard above the 2018 level of 2.1 billion gallons. “On July 4th, America celebrated our Independence Day. On July 5th, we learned that the United States Environmental Protection Agency proposed new RFS standards that are a missed chance to use ethanol and other biofuels to declare an American Energy Independence Day,” said King. “There is a direct correlation between increased production and use of American ethanol and decreased importation of petroleum from foreign nations, some of whom are hostile to us. In order to Make America Great Again, we need an energy strategy that recognizes the important role biofuels play in Making America Energy Independent, and sets targets that encourage greater production.” Congressman King is a strong supporter of the Renewable Fuel Standard, and a firm believer in the important roles that conventional “E-15” ethanol and cellulosic biofuels have to play in moving America towards energy independence. On June 22, 2016, King testified before the House Subcommittee on Energy and Power on the importance of maintaining the RFS program. ###
06.29.2017	“From This Root, Justice Will Grow” By Congressman Steve King Breitbart.com June 29, 2017 For years, people have heard me say that “I want to rip Obamacare out by the roots as if such act had never been enacted.” Well, today, the House of Representatives took a step towards placing a Root in the law. A Root named Sarah. By passing “Sarah’s Law,” a law I wrote in honor of Iowan Sarah Root, the House has enhanced the government’s ability to keep dangerous illegal aliens locked up and off of our streets. And I am confident that from this Root, Justice will grow. Sarah Root was a beautiful young woman and an exceptional student. She graduated from Bellevue University with a 4.0 GPA and a degree in Criminal Investigation. She had her entire life in front of her: a life that was to be dedicated to preserving the Rule of Law. But all of that ended on the night of January 31, 2016, when an illegal alien killed her. Sarah had been celebrating her recent college graduation with friends. As she was driving home, her car was violently rear-ended by a drunken illegal alien involved in a street race. The illegal alien, who had a history of prior encounters with law enforcement, had a blood-alcohol content three times the legal limit. The impact of the collision left Sarah unrecognizable. Her parents, Michelle and Scott, were only able to identify their daughter through her “Live, Laugh, Love” tattoo. Her organs were donated, and subsequently led to saving six people’s lives. I often wear a “Sarah Saved Six” bracelet to honor her memory. Since that terrible January night, I have gotten to know Michelle and Scott Root and their only remaining child, Scott Jr. They are terrific people who, like so many other American families that are victims of illegal alien crime, have had to suffer a terrible, inconceivably painful loss. They are not just constituents to me. Over time they have become friends. But they are also more than that. They are the embodiment of why I have spent 15 years in Congress championing the need for greater enforcement of the nation’s immigration laws. No American should have to wake up in the early morning hours, as Michelle and Scott Root did, to confront the loss of a loved one at the hands of an illegal alien. These crimes are 100% preventable. These crimes most assuredly are not “accidents,” and it is offensive for anyone to suggest they are. If Sarah Root’s killer had not been in the country illegally, or if he had been locked up behind bars until he could be deported, Sarah Root would be alive today. . . . Thankfully, the House of Representatives shares my long-held concerns and is beginning to act on them. The House passed three serious pieces of enforcement legislation this week, all of which bear my name. One bill will deny federal funds to sanctuary cities, a change I have been pushing for since 2005 when the House passed my amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Act denying funds to cities enacting sanctuary policies. This bill will also allow illegal aliens convicted of drunk driving to be held by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). The second bill, named “Kate’s Law” in honor of Kate Steinle, will provide judges with the ability to increase the length of prison sentences for illegal aliens who re-enter the country illegally. And, finally, there is “Sarah’s Law.” This legislation, which I first introduced on July 7, 2016, requires ICE to take custody of illegal aliens charged in the United States with a crime resulting in the death or serious bodily injury of another person. If we had tougher immigration laws on the books, and we made enforcing them a priority, we would be discussing Sarah Root for her investigations of violations of the law, rather than discussing her as a potential provision in the law. From this Root, Justice will grow. Congress should send my bills to President Trump for his signature. To read Congressman Steve King’s full op-ed, click here. ###
06.29.2017	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed four of his bills over the last two days. “It has been a busy week, and it has been a productive week in terms of restoring the Rule of Law in our nation,” said King. “The House of Representatives has passed four of my bills, including legislation that makes major reforms to medical malpractice laws and legislation that enhances our ability to enforce our immigration laws. Importantly, my legislation has also earned the public support of the Trump Administration. I encourage the Senate to quickly take up these four bills and to send them to President Trump for his signature.” The four pieces of legislation introduced this session by Congressman King and passed by the House of Representatives in the last 48 hours are: H.R. 1215- The “Protecting Access to Care Act.”- Introduced by Congressman King, this legislation makes several reforms to medical malpractice laws, including placing a hard cap of $250,000 on non-economic damages that can be awarded in lawsuits. The Congressional Budget Office projects King’s legislation will save taxpayers at least $50 Billion over the next 10 years. H.R. 3003- The “No Sanctuary for Criminals Act.”- Introduced by Congressman King, Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, and Rep. Andy Biggs this legislation prohibits federal Homeland Security and Justice Department grant funding to so-called “sanctuary cities.” “Sarah’s Law”- Incorporated as a provision of the “No Sanctuary for Criminals Act,” King’s “Sarah’s Law” legislation requires U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to take custody of illegal aliens charged in the United States with a crime resulting in the death or serious bodily injury of another person. “Sarah’s Law” was introduced in honor of Iowa’s Sarah Root, a 21 year old college student killed by an illegal alien who had previous run-ins with law enforcement. H.R. 3004- “Kate’s Law.” Introduced by Congressman King, Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, and Rep. Pete Sessions this legislation amends federal law to impose a sentencing enhancement for any illegal reentry offense. King introduced this legislation in response to the death of Kate Steinle, a young woman killed by an illegal alien who had previously been deported 5 times. ###
06.28.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement today following passage of legislation he introduced, the “Protecting Access to Care Act,” by the House of Representatives. King’s legislation contains several important legal reforms, including a hard cap of $250,000 on non-economic damages awarded in medical malpractice lawsuits. King’s reforms are designed to lower skyrocketing health care costs, to reduce the practice of unnecessary “defensive medicine,” and to increase the supply of doctors, particularly those who practice medicine in high-risk specialties. “H.R. 1215 is common sense litigation reform that will rein in overly aggressive health care lawsuits while preserving the ability of plaintiffs to recover unlimited economic damages.” Congressman King’s full comments are available here. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has estimated that passage of King’s “Protecting Access to Care Act” would save federal taxpayers at least $50 billion over a ten year period. In addition, the CBO has estimated that King’s reforms would lower premiums for medical malpractice insurance by an average of 25% to 30%. Importantly, the “Protecting Access to Care Act” continues to allow an injured party to receive full compensation for measurable, economic harm (such as medical expenses or lost wages) that they have incurred. The damage cap only applies to an award of non-economic damages (such as punitive damages) that are, by their very nature, speculative, subjective, and wildly inconsistent. The “Protecting Access to Care Act” also allows courts to require periodic payments instead of lump sum damages, so that bankruptcies can be avoided and patients can be fully reimbursed. Additionally, the legislation contains a fair-share provision which allocates damages in proportion to fault. Congressman King’s “Protecting Access to Care Act” is modelled on a successful medical malpractice law that has been in effect in California for over 40 years, and it contains provisions that were endorsed by President Ronald Reagan’s Tort Policy Working Group in 1986. The legislation has the support of the Trump Administration, which issued a Statement of Administration Policy on June 13 stating “if H.R. 1215 were presented to the President, his senior advisors would recommend that he sign the bill into law.” King’s legislation, HR 1215, passed the House of Representatives on a vote of 218-210.
06.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video of remarks he delivered at an event today announcing the launch of Advocates for Victims of Illegal Alien Crime (AVIAC), a new 501c3 organization dedicated to promoting American safety and security. AVIAC was founded by families who have been victimized by illegal alien crime. Joining King at today’s event were Don Rosenberg, Mary Ann Mendoza, Sabine Durden, Michelle Root, Maureen Maloney, and Brian McCann. Congressman King was introduced by AVIAC’s Niles Barnhart, who described him as “a man of principle; a man of compassion; a true patriot who isn’t afraid to tell the truth and fight for what’s right: protecting each and every American life.” “In the effort to restore the Rule of Law, these families are the equivalent of Gold Star Families,” said King. “They’ve lost their loved ones because we didn’t do our job of enforcing the law.” Don Rosenberg’s 25 year old son, Drew, was killed by an illegal alien from Honduras who had been granted temporary immigration status. Mary Ann Mendoza’s 32 year old son, Brandon, was killed by a drunk driving illegal alien who had been in the country for over 20 years. Sabine Durben’s 30 year old son, Dominic, was killed when his motorcycle was hit by an illegal alien from Guatemala who had two previous convictions for driving under the influence. Michelle Root’s 21 year old daughter, Sarah, was killed by an illegal alien drunk driver from Honduras who had a history of prior run-ins with law enforcement. Maureen Maloney’s 23 year old son, Matthew, was killed by an illegal alien from Ecuador. Brian McCann’s 70 year old brother, Denny, was killed when he was run over by an illegal alien from Mexico with a felony history while crossing the street. Sarah Root’s death led Congressman King to introduce “Sarah’s Law,” legislation that is expected to pass in the House of Representatives this week. “Sarah’s Law” requires U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to take custody of illegal aliens charged in the United States with a crime resulting in the death or serious bodily injury of another person. A related King bill, “Kate’s Law,” is also expected to pass the House of Representatives this week. “Kate’s Law”, which amends federal law to impose a sentencing enhancement for any illegal reentry offense, was introduced in response to the killing of Kate Steinle by an illegal alien who had been deported multiple times. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
06.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) announcement that it is repealing the controversial “WOTUS Rule” (Waters of the United States) imposed by the Obama administration. Obama’s “WOTUS Rule” gave the EPA unprecedented authority to regulate the nation’s waterways. The rule had come under criticism from advocates for small businesses, farmers, ranchers, and private property owners. Last November, Congressman King joined with 4 other members of Iowa’s Congressional delegation on a letter asking President Trump to scrap this misguided rule. “The EPA’s announcement that it is withdrawing President Obama’s ‘WOTUS Rule’ is a win for farmers, ranchers, and private landowners throughout the country,” said King. “I thank EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt for his leadership on this issue. After two years, President Obama’s water grab has finally been flushed. Had it been left in place, the EPA could have claimed the authority to regulate 97% of Iowa with dire economic consequences for both the state and the nation. Good riddance to this misguided Obama-era economic assault on rural America.”
06.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following Special Order speech, in which he took to the floor of the House of Representatives to introduce America to “Tanzania’s Miracle Kids.” The “Miracle Kids,” Wilson, Sadia, and Doreen, are the only survivors of a horrible bus accident which killed 36 people on May 6. The children’s lives were saved through the combined efforts of many people, including Congressman King, Dr. Steve Meyer of Sioux City, Rev. Franklin Graham of the Christian relief organization, Samaritan’s Purse, and missionaries Kevin Negaard, Jennifer Milby, and Manda Volkert of the Siouxland Tanzania Educational Medical Ministries. “Tanzania’s Miracle Kids” are currently recuperating from their injuries in Sioux City, Iowa, where they have been receiving care through Mercy Hospital. “We join together in these efforts when we can be Americans and reach out with the American heart and spirit and help others when they are in dire need.” To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
06.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Chairman Steve King released the following opening remarks in the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice hearing on Examining Ethical Responsibilities Regarding Attorney Advertising: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
06.23.2017	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Steve King released the following statement after legislation he wrote, “Sarah’s Law” (named after Iowan Sarah Root) and “Kate’s Law” (named after Kate Steinle) was re-introduced as components of legislation written by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte designed to strengthen illegal immigration enforcement measures and to combat dangerous sanctuary city policies that expose innocent Americans to predation by individuals who are not in the country legally. “Sarah’s Law” is contained in H.R. 3003, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, while “Kate’s Law” will be introduced as stand-alone legislation, H.R. 3004. Congressman King and Chairman Goodlatte are original cosponsors of both H.R. 3003 and H.R. 3004. “I thank Chairman Goodlatte for his support and leadership combatting illegal immigration,” said King. “The bills we are introducing today contain two key provisions I have been advancing: ‘Sarah’s Law’, in honor of the memory of Iowa’s Sarah Root, a 21 year old killed by a 19 year old illegal alien who had previous run-ins with law enforcement; and ‘Kate’s Law’, in honor of the memory of Kate Steinle, a 32 year old woman killed by an illegal alien who had several felony convictions and who had been deported from the United States five times.” “Sarah’s Law requires U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to take custody of illegal aliens charged in the United States with a crime resulting in the death or serious bodily injury of another person. Kate’s Law amends federal law to impose a sentencing enhancement for any illegal reentry offense. Both of these reforms would protect all Americans from crimes committed by those who were not here legally in the first place.” House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte offered the following comments: “For years, the lack of immigration enforcement and the spread of dangerous sanctuary policies have failed the American people and cost too many lives. The deaths of innocent Americans, such as Kate Steinle, Sarah Root, Grant Ronnebeck, and too many others, are tragic. Their deaths are especially devastating since they could have been prevented if our immigration laws had been enforced.” “The House Judiciary Committee is working to improve our nation’s immigration laws and policy, and today I have introduced two, straightforward bills to enhance public safety. The bills crack down on dangerous sanctuary policies that needlessly put innocent lives at risk. They enhance penalties for deported felons who return to the United States and ensure unlawful immigrants convicted of drunk driving, or arrested for other dangerous crimes, are detained during their removal proceedings. We owe it to the families of those who lost loved ones to take action to prevent these horrible crimes. They have waited far too long.” Congressman King introduced “Sarah’s Law” on July 6, 2016. The press release accompanying the introduction of that legislation can be found here. Congressman King introduced “Kate’s Law” on Jan 6, 2017. The press release accompanying the introduction of that legislation can be found here.
06.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Chairman Steve King released the following opening remarks in the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice hearing on Lawsuit Abuse and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
06.02.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, released the following statement after the United States Supreme Court declined to hear a case challenging California’s unconstitutional law regulating agricultural producers in other states. The case had been brought by the states of Iowa, Nebraska, Alabama, Missouri, Kentucky, and Oklahoma. “The United States Constitution grants the power to regulate interstate commerce to Congress, not to California. Since California’s enactment of its unconstitutional Proposition 2, which prohibits the trade of agricultural products with states who do not adopt California’s mandates, I have worked to reassert the proper understanding of the Commerce Clause on behalf of agricultural producers in Iowa and the other 48 states. While some entities who have been hostile to producers, such as the Humane Society’s Wayne Pacelle, welcome the United States Supreme Court’s decision not to hear the case brought by the State of Iowa and others at this time, I do not. It is important that this Congress work to reaffirm federal supremacy in interstate commerce, especially when one considers the serious economic harm the California law is currently causing to egg producers and consumers in Iowa and elsewhere. My bill, the Protect Interstate Commerce Act, will protect against rising costs, allow consumers greater choice, and shield producers throughout the country from the anti-farmer whims of California’s voters and legislature. I’m working to stop California’s unconstitutional attempt to regulate America’s agricultural production methods.” Congressman King has been a consistent advocate for Iowa agriculture. Previously, he worked to successfully gain inclusion of his legislation in the House passed version of the 2014 Farm Bill.
05.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting seven amendments to the omnibus spending bill: “During the November election, all Republicans including President Trump vowed to uphold our Constitution, cut spending and listen to the American people,” said King. “The 2017 omnibus spending bill provides Congress the unique opportunity to uphold those promises and that is why I have introduced 7 separate amendments to the omnibus spending bill. For years, the American people have been demanding that we defund DACA and DAPA, ObamaCare, Planned Parenthood, the Iran Nuclear Deal, sanctuary cities and strike out any expansion of H-2B visas. Furthermore, we must provide the funding for a wall in order to secure our borders. Republicans and all of Congress must be held responsible for election promises made and thus, I believe these amendments should be brought to the House floor for a vote. Today, I am putting the marker down on where I stand, and I challenge my colleagues to do the same. This is our opportunity to put American people’s priorities at the forefront of the House’s legislative agenda, and I am hopeful we can turn the page and start fresh.” Mr. King’s Seven Amendments to the omnibus spending bill: 1. Defund President Obama’s DACA, DAPA programs. 2. Defund Obamacare. 3. Defund Planned Parenthood. 4. Defund President Obama’s Iran Nuclear Deal. 5. Defund all sanctuary cities. 6. Blocking any expansion of the H-2B Visa Program. 7. Fund the building of a border wall.
03.30.2017	On May 20, 2003, my wife Marilyn and I attended a dinner at the Park Hyatt Hotel in downtown Washington, D.C. We were there to hear the guest speaker, President of the Philippines Gloria Arroyo. President Arroyo thanked America for all contributions made to Filipino life by Americans over more than the past century. She said, “Eight million Filipinos … live and work abroad and generate billions of dollars a year in revenue for our country. [Filipinos are] highly skilled, well educated, English-speaking [and because of this] comparative advantage, millions of Filipinos [are] working in over 140 countries in the world.” Mrs. Arroyo continued, “[The] value[s] embedded in our people [are] in part … the legacy of America’s involvement in the Philippines. America gave the Philippines a great public education system. … Send us more Thomasites … the American teachers who went to the Philippines at the turn of the century and educated our people in English and many other things western, and that’s why we seem so similar today.” Records show there where only 1,074 Thomasites, but this teacher corps built an education system in the Philippines that mirrored that of the United States. Filipinos were educated and trained to take over the education system, which they did well. The American language, culture, work ethic, free enterprise, values and way of life was infused into the Philippines. We are bonded together to this day with the third-largest English-speaking country in the world. The Philippines developed into a sustainable country built upon the foundation of the American civilization. Thomasites were the precursor, the de facto pilot project, the inspiration for the Peace Corps. Only 1,074 teachers a century ago transformed the islands’ population of 8 million and placed them on a self-sustaining path, and today 8 million Filipinos are working in 140 countries on multiple continents, lifting up many millions more around the world. And today, there are just over 7,000 active Peace Corps workers scattered in as many as 140 countries. They make a significant difference in helping lift the Third World out of poverty and in building relationships between the United States and receiving nations. Americans support the Peace Corps because we have a humanitarian heart that lifted the Philippines and many other countries from despair. What, then, could 750,000 Thomasites do for Mexico and Central America? What could be a better economic, social and cultural improvement plan, especially for our neighbors to the south? What could better bond us together, expand trade, establish an effective education system, and the rule of law? What better program could possibly be devised to help bring our neighbors to the south into the first world? But where would we find 750,000 young American educated “volunteers” who speak English, carry with them the American work ethic, a paid-for American education, the American culture, and experience with the rule of law? Wouldn’t it be better if they were bilingual, fluent in the host country’s language, too? Even better if many already had familial relationships in some of the most poverty-stricken areas of the Third World? Fortunately, President Obama has built a database (though unconstitutionally) that identifies exactly the universe of people who are perfectly poised to come to the aid of the impoverished and corrupt nation-states of the hemisphere and the world. It is the Dreamer database, otherwise known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, 750,000 individuals who exactly fit the criteria described above. How could the United States and primarily the Western Hemisphere be so fortunate as to have a perfect, ready-made solution poised to solve such an otherwise unsolvable problem? And just at the time when we have a president who has given his oath to do so. President Trump pledged to end DACA and DAPA, or Deferred Action for Parents of Americans, on the first day of his presidency. More than 60 days in, the Trump administration continues to issue new permits and extend existing permits. It’s late, but not too late, to end the unconstitutional and lawless DACA program and return lawbreakers to their home countries where they were born. They will go back to their homes and their home communities. Sen. Dick Durbin, Illinois Democrat, has stated on the Senate floor, “They are amazing.” If the Dreamers are of such value to their adopted country, how much greater value will they be to their countries of legal residence? And when they finish their tours of duty, they will be in the back of the line to come back to America, if they qualify. My bet? Dreamers would outperform Peace Corp workers and Thomasites by a country mile. One day, a future president of Mexico will give a speech in Washington, D.C., thanking the United States for our part in restoring the rule of law — in both countries. To view the original source, click here.
03.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing his repeal of the EB-5 investor visa program: “Developers have monopolized the EB-5 program since its creation, exploiting its flaws and fighting against any compulsory reforms,” said King. “These developers messaged and ‘sold’ the program to investors as an easy way to acquire green cards all the while claiming the current market will not support domestic investment amounts. Under the Obama Administration’s unconstitutional and open immigration policy, applications for EB-5 visas suddenly skyrocketed and now, there is an eight year waiting list. The result is they are selling access to citizenship and selling it cheap. While the fraud and abuse of the EB-5 program has been disguised as popularity, the American worker and economy continues to be undermined. “Furthermore, the program has been derailed to the point where terrorists can easily target it as the perfect tool for access into American society. I have introduced the repeal of the EB-5 program as Congress cannot continue to turn a blind eye to our flawed immigration laws, hoping terrorists don’t exploit our weaknesses.” To view the original text of the bill, click here.
03.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Chairman Steve King released the following opening remarks in the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice hearing on the oversight of the Judgement Fund: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
03.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King, Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice, released the following video statement from his opening remarks at the House Judiciary Committee Markup on his bill, H.R. 1215, the “Protecting Access to Care Act”. King’s bill passed the full House Judiciary Committee today. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
02.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing legislation that punishes the People's Republic of China for its failure to protect the holders of United States intellectual property rights. “The creative genius of Americans, protected by our copyrights, trademarks and patents, is systematically being pirated by the Chinese whose government appears to be complicit,” said King. “My bill directs the President to impose duties on merchandise from China in an amount equivalent to the estimated annual loss of revenue to holders of U.S. intellectual property rights as a result of violations of such intellectual property rights in China. The revenue raised by the imposition of duties on Chinese merchandise will be proportionally distributed to provide compensation to holders of United States intellectual property rights. China is responsible for an estimated 50-80% of international IP theft with an estimated annual loss of over $300 billion to the U.S. economy alone. My message to China, the leading pirates of U.S. intellectual property, is pay us now, or pay us later. My bill would allow for better protection of IP which would encourage significantly more research, development investment and economic growth, creating more jobs and protecting the work products of hard working Americans.” To view the original text of the bill, click here.
02.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing the Expatriate Terrorist Act (ETA) of 2017, which would allow the U.S. government under certain circumstances to revoke the citizenship of Americans who knowingly join or provide material support to foreign terrorist organizations such as ISIS. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) has also re-introduced the companion bill in the Senate. Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) are Senate cosponsors of the ETA. “Over past years, many vulnerabilities to American security have emerged,” said King. “ Some American citizens have sworn allegiance to foreign terrorist organizations (FTO’s), and that is why Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) and I have re-introduced the Expatriate Terrorist Act (ETA). Upon taking an oath to a FTO, American terrorists have voluntarily renounced their citizenship. Such individuals who commit acts of terror against the United States are demonstrating they no longer uphold their pledge to our country. Regardless of prior citizenship, by birth or naturalization, ETA will make it clear that if a national of the U.S. chooses to take an oath or pledge allegiance to a FTO, that individual has affirmatively renounced American citizenship and relinquished all protection under the law. ” “We know that Islamic radicalization is happening right here in the United States. Indeed, we’ve seen Americans like Anwar al-Awlaki, Faisal Shazad, and most recently, Abdul Malik Abdul Kareem, engage in hostilities against our country, and materially support terrorists who are waging war against us and our way of life. This is a threat that must be taken seriously.” Sen. Cruz said. “The Expatriate Terrorist Act will ensure that any American who forfeits their country to intentionally join ISIS will have their citizenship stripped and won’t be able to use a U.S. passport to come back and murder American citizens. I’m glad to join with my House colleague, Rep. Steve King on this important effort and I hope that Congress will come together to pass this bill as we work to once and for all acknowledge the real threat of radical Islamic terror and take the steps necessary to keep our country safe.” To view the original bill text, click here.
02.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing a resolution condemning the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit for rejecting and ruling against President Trump’s executive order on immigration. “It is clear that Judge James L. Robart of the Western District of Washington brazenly ignored the Constitution, Federal law and court precedent in issuing a temporary restraining order against President Trump’s executive order, ‘Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States,’” said King. “Ultimately the United States Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit failed to reverse Judge Robart’s erroneous order and in the meantime, thousands of refugees who have not been properly vetted from seven terror-prone countries can continue entering our country. The Immigration and Nationality Act at 8 U.S. Code 1182 gives the president the ultimate power to block foreigners from entering the country if they are considered ‘detrimental to the interests of the United States.’ Today, we face the ongoing and increasing threat of radical Islamic jihad. As terrorism propagates around the world, President Trump understands attacks in other countries are not isolated incidents, and he acted fully within his constitutional means to protect the American people. I stand with President Trump and have introduced this resolution of disapproval to rebuke the court’s actions.” To view the original text of the resolution, click here.
02.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing H.R. 997, the English Language Unity Act, in the 115th Congress: “The most unifying force in the world has always been a common language,” said King. “Almost without exception, every nation state, including the Vatican, has at least one official language – except the United States. My English Language Unity Act requires all official functions of the United States to be conducted in English. Federal law has long required immigrants to learn English before they can become naturalized American Citizens. America has risen to superpower status because we have successfully assimilated multitudes through English. Today, only Leftists oppose Official English. It’s time to make English the Official Language of the Unites States.” To view the original text of the bill, click here.
02.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement concerning the Des Moines Public School Board introducing two unconstitutional immigration resolutions this evening: “Today, the Des Moines Public School Board will be considering two immigration resolutions, including a “sanctuary” resolution that violates both the Constitution’s supremacy clause and two federal laws,” said King. “Creating a policy that allows the school to refuse to cooperate and to prohibit all school employees from cooperating with ICE officials and their inquiries regarding students or their families, this resolution would be in direct violation of 8 U.S. Code 1373 which states no one shall ‘prohibit, or in any way restrict…information regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of any individual.’ This resolution could also lead to future criminal investigations by empowering the Superintendent to evade inquiries from ICE officials which would violate 8 U.S. Code 1324 that deals with harboring illegal aliens. This code clearly states if any person knowingly ‘harbors or shields from detection…in any place,’ they could ‘be fined under title 18, imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both.’ Not only does this resolution undermine the Rule of Law by obstructing ICE officials from enforcing the law, but it is also blatantly unconstitutional and could lead to a Class C or Class D felony conviction. I am incredulous that the school board would come to this kind of motivation or conclusion given that the Trump administration has previously stated they will withhold any federal funds that would go to any sanctuary jurisdiction in America. Motivated by pure political agenda, the second resolution asks the Iowa congressional delegation to support the BRIDGE Act and the 5,500 students in Iowa who have registered under the DACA program. I will never support the lawless actions of former President Barack Obama when he illegally instituted this program with a stroke of a pen, circumventing the Constitution and attempting to normalize criminal behavior." Congressman King sent a letter with the above information to both Superintendent Thomas Ahart, Ed.D and Chair Teree Caldwell-Johnson. To view the letter, click here.
02.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing the National Right To Work Act in the 115th Congress along with Congressman Joe Wilson. This bill would repeal the provisions in federal law that make "forced dues" the default labor law of the country: “Today, around 80% of Americans overwhelmingly believe that every worker and their employer should have the power to negotiate the terms of their employment,” said King. “Unfortunately when Congress enacted the National Labor Relations Act in 1935, this right was taken away from the people and Americans were forced to pay union dues and abide by the union’s rules just to get or keep a job. "As early as 1947, Congress tacitly admitted that this concept of ‘monopoly bargaining’ does indeed violate the rights of workers. As a result, they allowed states to ‘opt-out’ if they passed Right to Work laws while making ‘forced unionization’ the default. Twenty-seven states have now done so, effectively mitigating the negative impact of this misguided federal labor law. However, the fact remains that Congress created the problem in the first place, and it is Congress’s responsibility to correct it. The National Right to Work Act will succeed in doing so by simply listening to the majority of American workers by erasing the forced-dues clauses in federal statute -- without adding a single letter to federal law.” “As a long-time advocate of South Carolina’s right to work law and the Employee Rights Act, I am grateful to introduce national right to work legislation with my colleague, Congressman Steve King,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. “At least 80 percent of Americans are opposed to forcing employees to pay dues as a condition of their employment, and our bill would protect workers by eliminating the forced-dues clauses in federal statute. “Right-to-work states, like South Carolina, have seen first-hand that job creation and economic growth comes from expanded freedoms. We need to expand common-sense reforms, like those in the National Right to Work Act to protect American workers and create jobs.” To view the original text of the bill, click here.
01.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing the Davis-Bacon Repeal Act in the 115th Congress along with Senator Mike Lee, who introduced the companion bill in the Senate: “No one can claim to be a fiscal conservative if they think the federal government needs to inflate the cost of wages,” said King. “Originally passed in Congress in the 1930’s, the last Jim Crow Law left in America to keep African Americans out of the Labor force in New York, the Davis-Bacon wage scale is an outdated law that sets the federal wage scale at union scale. I first dealt with Davis-Bacon wage scales when I started my construction company in 1975. The federal government dictated wage scale to all of my employees on federally funded projects. Micromanaging and disrupting the efficiencies in our businesses has ultimately resulted in an average of 20% higher costs to taxpayers. Simply put, we are bleeding red ink in the federal government. Rather than increasing costs by billions of dollars and restricting our free market, all that should be required is for the employer and the employee to agree on salary and benefits." “The Davis-Bacon Act is an 80-year-old wage subsidy law that requires all federally funded projects worth more than $2,000 to pay workers a so-called ‘prevailing wage,’” Sen. Mike Lee said. “However, the ‘prevailing wage’ is determined not by market forces operating in reality, but by federal bureaucrats operating in Washington, DC. As a result, federal contractors are charged, on average, a 22 percent premium on their labor costs above what private companies pay for the same project. Repealing the outdated, costly Davis-Bacon Act will give federal contractors the ability to hire more workers of all skill level, while lowering the overall costs of federal transportation construction projects.” To view the original text of the bill, click here.
01.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement today welcoming the 44th annual March for Life to our Nation’s capital: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
01.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing the Choices in Education Act of 2017. This bill would both promote and protect school choice by ensuring States the ability to carry out their education voucher program and by giving parents the ability to choose the best form of education for their children. “As the spouse of a former Iowa teacher, I understand that it’s the right thing for our children to take education decisions out of the hands of the federal government, and back into the rightful hands of parents who know how best to meet the educational needs of own children,” said King. “The Choices in Education Act does so by repealing the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) of 1965 and therefore, limiting the authority of the Secretary of Education. This bill will ensure that the Secretary is properly making payments to the States regarding voucher programs and that the States are complying with school choice requirements. In order to receive a grant or voucher under my legislation, the State must ensure that the funds be distributed appropriately on a per pupil basis. Additionally and most importantly, this bill makes it lawful for the parent to make the ultimate decision between public, private or home-school education for their children. This freedom of choice will result in parents being able to send their children to safer, better schools by taking Federal dollars from failing programs like No Child Left Behind (NCLB) and Common Core, reinsuring them direct control over important educational decisions. This is an opportunity to work for the well-being of our country by reclaiming our culture. This bill instills competition back into our K-12 schools. The result will be better, more effective schools, public or private. Finally, this legislation also includes my previously introduced bill - the No Hungry Kids Act which would repeal the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) new standards that have left children across the nation hungry due to calorie rationing throughout the school day. The original goal of the school lunch program was – and is – to ensure students receive enough nutrition to be healthy, and to learn. The misguided nanny state, as advanced by Michelle Obama's misnamed ‘Healthy and Hunger Free Kids Act’ as interpreted by former Secretary Vilsack, forces every child on a diet because some kids are overweight. This act replaces those standards, prohibits the USDA's from rationing calories, and protects the right of parents to send their children to school with the foods of their choice. Schools must be serving our students as much nutritious food as they need, so that our students can grow, learn, and excel, in school and out of school – in the classroom and on the playing field.” To view the original text of the bill, click here.
01.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement announcing his committee assignments and subcommittee chairmanship for the 115th Congress: “I am pleased to announce that for the 115th Congress, I will once again be part of the House Judiciary Committee, the House Committee on Agriculture and the House Small Business Committee, said King. “I am also honored to be appointed the chairman of the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice by Chairman Goodlatte of the House Judiciary Committee. As a full-spectrum, Constitutional Conservative, I am a strong believer in the Rule of Law, and I always carry a copy of the Constitution in my coat pocket. Representing the leading agricultural district in the Nation and as the founder of a small business, I look forward to working with my fellow Members on both sides of the aisle as we strive to lead on the issues facing Iowa and our Nation.” After announcing the new leadership team for the House Judiciary Committee, Chairman Bob Goodlatte said, “Congressman Steve King is a valuable member of the House Judiciary Committee. His expertise on many of the issues facing our nation and the Committee make him well-suited to serve as Chairman of the Constitution and Civil Justice Subcommittee. I look forward to working with him as we seek to safeguard Americans’ liberties and promote an efficient and just legal system.” Rep. Steve King’s Committee Assignments for the 115th Congress: House Judiciary Committee -Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice House Committee on Agriculture House Small Business Committee
01.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting YES to pass the 2017 budget resolution, beginning the process of repealing Obamacare: “Today, Congress took the first step in repealing Obamacare by passing the 2017 budget resolution,” said King. “From the botched implementation to President Obama unilaterally ignoring the law to the delay of mandates and the Supreme Court’s rewrite of the bill’s language without Congressional oversight, Obamacare has been a complete failure since day one. Americans have been forced to find new doctors and health insurance plans as they face rising premiums and out-of-control deductibles. I knew this would be the outcome, and on the morning after it passed into law, March 24, 2010, I wrote the first, full 100% repeal of Obamacare. Since then, I have consistently reintroduced the same magic 40 word repeal bill, my language has passed the House multiple times. And yet, Democrats have continued to try to bailout their sinking ship. It is time we stop drowning in the failures of Obamacare. It is time to repeal this egregious law, and provide real healthcare solutions to the American people.”
01.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing “The Heartbeat Bill,” that would require physicians to detect the heartbeat and prohibit the abortion of a baby with a beating heart: “Since Roe v. Wade was unconstitutionally decided in 1973, nearly 60 million innocent babies' lives have been ended by the abortion industry, all with a rubber stamp by the federal government,” said King. “Human life, beginning at the moment of conception, is sacred in all of its forms and today, I introduced a bill that will protect the lives of voiceless innocents. My legislation will require all physicians, before conducting an abortion, to detect the heartbeat of the unborn child. If a heartbeat is detected, the baby is protected. America was founded on the concept that our rights come from God. All human persons have a right to life. How then could we confer that those rights allow the killing of a baby? I believe our most important responsibility that God has bestowed upon us is to protect innocent human life, and I will continue to dedicate my life to that responsibility.”
01.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing the End-of-Life Counseling Bill: “A year ago this month, the government increased control over one of the most highly personal healthcare decisions an individual can make when the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) began paying doctors to counsel patients about end-of-life care,” said King. “Allowing the federal government to marry its need to save dollars with the promotion of end-of-life counseling is not in the interest of millions of Americans who were promised life-sustaining care in their older years in exchange for their compelled funding of the program during their working years. Furthermore, this exact provision was removed from the final draft of Obamacare in 2009 as a direct result of public outcry. The worldview behind the policy has not changed since then and government control over this intimate choice is still intolerable to those who respect the dignity of human life. My legislation prohibits Medicare payments for end-of-life counseling, blocking this harmful regulation before our government imposes yet another life-devaluing policy on the American people. ” To view the original bill text, click here.
01.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing “The Meaningful Use Act:” “The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released in 2015 final rules for Stage 3 of its meaningful use program for electronic health records (EHRs),” said King. “Although CMS touted the regulations as giving providers increased flexibility, this program remains broken and unsustainable. The significant and ongoing financial cost of compliance is a deal breaker for many providers who simply cannot handle the financial burden and risks associated with EHRs. The demands of this onerous program means fewer dollars for staff and supplies necessary to attend to patients. This unwelcome, ‘unintended’ consequence has even caused some providers to close their businesses altogether. My bill would repeal these destructive penalties so that providers can get back to the business they are uniquely trained to do—utilizing their skills and knowledge to heal the sick and support the continued vitality of the healthy.” To view the original bill text, click here.
01.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing the American Future Healthcare Act, which would give Americans back the rightful control over their own healthcare decisions and the Tax Free Health Insurance Act, which would eliminate taxes on health insurance for those in the individual market: “With the forthcoming repeal of Obamacare, there is widespread agreement that the American people deserve policies that will offer healthcare solutions, not temporary fixes that will cause even more financial distress for consumers,” said King. “Today, I have re-introduced two pieces of legislation in an effort to provide sensible and affordable healthcare for all Americans. The American Future Healthcare Act would work to give individuals the ability to make their own healthcare decisions by increasing deductible healthcare savings account (HSA) annual contribution limits to $10,000 per individual and $20,000 per joint return. In this way, HSAs would allow individuals to keep the dollars that they do not use and, unlike under current law, Americans could accumulate money in their HSAs even if they have high deductible health plans (HDHPs) or even no insurance at all. HSAs could also be used to pay health insurance premiums, regardless of the type of health insurance the individual has. Unlike Obamacare, this legislation encourages healthcare accountability over a lifetime, ensuring that our citizens and our nation as a whole thrive in the decades ahead. The Tax Free Health Insurance Act would also encourage fiscal responsibility by making every health insurance policy fully tax deductible. In 2012, there were 20.9 million insured Americans who were compelled to pay their premiums with after tax dollars. This includes small business owners who own an LLC, LP, Sole Proprietorship or S-Corps that can deduct their employees’ health insurance, but are unable to deduct their own premiums. Under Obamacare, these individuals are forced to buy an even more expensive policy but denies the premium expense as a deduction. My bill fixes this inequity in the tax code and ensures that all people can deduct their health insurance premiums, creating an economic impact that will place extra dollars back into the pockets of taxpayers, especially small businesses.” To view the original text of the American Future Healthcare Act, click here. To view the original text of the Tax Free Health Insurance Act, click here.
01.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing ‘Kate’s Law’ into the 115th Congress. Named in honor of Kate Steinle, a 32-year-old woman tragically shot and killed by an illegal alien who had several felony convictions and had been deported from the United States five times, this legislation would amend federal law to impose a mandatory minimum sentence of five years for any illegal reentry offense. This bill was originally introduced on July 9, 2015 by former Congressman Matt Salmon. “Parents should never experience the heartbreak of burying their child, but the Obama Administration’s commitment to lawless immigration policy has made that tragedy the new normal,” said King. “In his push for amnesty for criminals, the president ignored the price paid by victims – the price paid by Kate Steinle as she died in her father’s arms on San Francisco’s waterfront. Kate’s beautiful life was taken from her on July 1, 2015 when she was shot in the back by an illegal alien who had previously been deported five times and was seeking refuge in a so-called “sanctuary city.” It is a disgrace that a year and a half has passed since Kate was tragically murdered and yet innocent Americans continue to be victimized by illegal aliens who repeatedly re-enter our country and are harbored in our own cities. It is time we finally act to protect Americans from these 100% preventable crimes, and Kate’s Law would help ensure that criminal aliens are deterred from illegally reentering the United States to prey on innocent men, women and children. I know that President-elect Trump will fight for the safety and security of the American people by actually enforcing our federal immigration laws. In the meantime, I will continue honoring the memory of Kate and working to prevent similar tragedies from happening to other American families in the future.” To view my initial response to Kate’s death, click here. To view Kate’s Law, click here.
01.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing his resolution that condemns the “two-state solution” and stands with Israel: “The State of Israel is the only consistent and reliable beacon of freedom and democracy in the Middle East, and it is a crucial ally of the United States in the region as well as in the larger war against radical Islam,” said King. “Thus, I believe in advocating for a new approach concerning America’s prime policy objective between Israel and the people who call themselves Palestinians that prioritizes the State of Israel’s sovereignty, security, and borders. I have introduced my own resolution reaffirming my position to stand with Israel and reject the “two-state solution” that has failed to result in a secure environment for either Israel, a free country, or the Palestinians, who are led by Islamists and autocrats. Palestinian-led entities in the West Bank and Gaza have been and are being controlled by terrorist groups who incite acts of violence against innocents. As a result, Israel should be allowed to determine what is best for itself. My resolution encourages Israel to do just that by taking up its own course in direct negotiations with the Palestinians, instead of Washington dictating terms upon Jerusalem.” To view the original text of the resolution, click here.
01.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after his amendment to H.R. 26, Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act of 2017 (REINS Act) passed the House: “I believe it is the obligation of this 115th Congress to both restore Article 1 authority to Congress and to rein in our out of control spending,” said King. “Today we took a step in that direction with the passing of the REINS Act along with my amendment. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks on the House floor, click here. Furthermore, I was pleased to see Section 5 of this legislation, concerning the Government Accountability Office (GAO) conducting a study on rules, is my exact language that passed last Congress in committee markup and then on the House floor. Now, I look forward to seeing both my language within the bill as well as my amendment reach President Trump’s desk to receive his signature.” To view the original amendment, click here.
01.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing an amendment, similar to his Sunset Act, to H.R. 26, Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act of 2017 (REINS Act): To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
01.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing four immigration bills at the start of the 115th Congress: Sarah’s Law, Birthright Citizenship Act of 2017, Religious Worker Visa Reciprocity Act of 2017 and New IDEA Act. Sarah’s Law: “Sarah Root, a 21 year-old girl from Iowa who graduated from Bellvue University with a 4.0 degree in crime investigation was abruptly killed by a 19 year-old illegal immigrant,” said King. “Her life ended the day after her college graduation and by an individual who never should have been in the United States. Her murderer, Eswin Mejia, had previously encountered law enforcement but was released back onto the streets without punishment, and following Sarah’s death, he was once again arrested and released – bonded out for less than the funeral costs to bury Sarah. Sarah’s Law requires U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to take into custody all illegal aliens who have been charged in the United States with a crime resulting in the death or serious bodily injury of another person. Sarah and her family deserve justice. My bill will save lives and ensure their lack of closure never happens to another family.” To read Mr. King’s op-ed detailing more about Sarah Root’s story and his time spent with her family, click here. To view Sarah’s Law, click here. H.R. 140, the Birthright Citizenship Act of 2017: “A Century ago, it didn’t matter very much that a simple practice began that has now grown into a massive issue of birthright citizenship or the anchor baby agenda,” said King. “When automatic citizenship started being granted to all babies born in the United States, our lawmakers missed the clause in the 14th Amendment that says, ‘And subject to the jurisdiction thereof.’ So once the practice began, it grew out of proportion and today between 340,000 and 750,000 babies are born in America each year that get automatic citizenship even though both parents are illegal. I know of no other country in the world that does this, and it must end. My Birthright Citizenship Act of 2017 fixes it, clarifies the 14th Amendment and clarifies the Constitutional meaning of the clause, ‘And subject to the jurisdiction thereof.’ President-elect Trump repeatedly called for this bill, and it should be a top priority in Congress. ” To view Birthright Citizenship Act of 2017, click here. Religious Worker Visa Reciprocity Act of 2017: “In 1990, Congress created the R-1 nonimmigrant visa for religious workers,” said King. “This was created to help religious workers like priests, ministers, monks, nuns and other religious workers to come to the U.S. for up to three years to work for religious organizations. What started at a moderate growth rate for admissions has now skyrocketed, and the most infamous of these acceptances was Sheik Omar Abdul-Rahman, the mastermind of the first World Trade Center bombing. The United States has the most generous immigration policy in the world. However, our generosity is being repaid with fraud and abuse. All U.S. religious workers should have the same access to a foreign country as that country’s religious workers have to the U.S. In the true spirit of Thomas Jefferson, this sets up a reciprocating agreement and an exchange of Korans and Bibles.” To view Religious Worker Visa Reciprocity Act of 2017, click here. New IDEA Act: “I believe we must shut off the job magnets that encourage illegal immigrants from coming to the United States,” said King. “I have authored New IDEA, the Illegal Deduction Elimination Act, which would protect American jobs for American workers. New IDEA would make wages and benefits paid to illegal workers nondeductible for federal tax purposes. For example, a $10-per-hour wage for an illegal employee would cost the employer $16-per-hour without deductions plus penalty and interest. This would dramatically reduce the cheap labor incentive of hiring illegal workers. New IDEA would also make E-Verify permanent and provide ‘safe harbor’ for employers who use this employment eligibility system. My legislation would also create an information-sharing system between the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of Homeland Security and the Social Security Administration. By using an automated system to verify employment authorization, and by sharing this information amongst three federal agencies, false identification documents and illegal workers will be identified more easily and the agencies of government would be required to coordinate and cooperate with each other. This legislation will do more to shut off the job magnet than any legislation proposed in the history of Congress. ” To view the New IDEA Act, click here.
01.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing, in conjunction with his 100% repeal Obamacare Act also introduced today at the start of the 115th Congress, a bill to prohibit the Supreme Court from Citing Obamacare in future decisions. "Today, I introduced my full 100% repeal of ObamaCare ‘as if such Act had not been enacted,’ said King. “Obamacare should be ripped out by the roots and thus, I have introduced this legislation in conjunction with my repeal bill in an effort to look ahead and bar the Supreme Court from citing Obamacare in forthcoming decisions as binding precedent. It was my first order of business on the morning after ObamaCare passed into law, March 24, 2010, to draft and introduce my full, 100% repeal of ObamaCare. By prohibiting the Supreme Court from citing ObamaCare cases, we will be truly eradicating this unconstitutional policy from all three branches of government so that the repeal will be complete. Furthermore, we must work to restore Article I authority and the Rule of Law by ensuring Congress is the only entity of our government making or changing laws.” To view the original bill text, click here.
01.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing at the start of the 115th Congress his full, 100% repeal of Obamacare: "In the wake of the presidential election it has become abundantly clear that the American people have overwhelmingly rejected Obamacare time and time again,” said King. “Now that Republicans have control of both the House and the Senate as well as a Trump presidency, we must take swift action to fulfill our promise to We the People and repeal this unconstitutional and egregious law passed by hook, crook and legislative shenanigan. My bill is the answer to this nightmare: full 100% repeal of ObamaCare ‘as if such Act had not been enacted’. Since the botched implementation of ObamaCare, millions of people have had their health insurance plans cancelled because their grandfathered plans were in violation of ObamaCare's ‘essential health benefits.’ Since the beginning, I knew this would be the outcome, and my first order of business on the morning after ObamaCare passed into law, March 24, 2010, I drafted and then introduced the full, 100% repeal of ObamaCare. I have consistently reintroduced the same magic 40 word repeal bill, and this very language has passed the House several times. I believe Obamacare should be ripped out by the roots, and I will not stop fighting until we have successfully done just that.” To view the original bill text, click here.
12.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing his American Future Healthcare Act, that would give Americans back the rightful control over their own healthcare decisions: “The American people have rejected, as they have done for the past 6 years, the President’s failed healthcare law, asking both Congress and the 2016 presidential nominees for an alternative,” said King. “Whether it was the botched implementation or the fact that millions of people had their health insurance plans cancelled because they were suddenly in violation of ‘essential health benefits,’ Obamacare has been nothing short of a complete failure. It is time this act of hook, crook and legislative shenanigan be abolished and our health care system restored. That is why I introduced the Obamacare Repeal Act in January 2015, and why I am introducing The American Future Healthcare Act of 2016. My bill would bring an end to this nightmare by giving the American people the ability to make their own healthcare decisions by increasing deductible healthcare savings account (HSA) annual contribution limits to $10,000 per individual and $20,000 per joint return. In this way, HSAs would allow individuals to keep the dollars that they do not use and, unlike under current law, Americans could accumulate money in their HSAs even if they have high deductible health plans (HDHPs) or even no insurance at all. HSAs could also be used to pay health insurance premiums, regardless of the type of health insurance the individual has. Unlike Obamacare, the American Future Healthcare Act actually encourages individuals and families to be fiscally responsible by saving for their healthcare expenses. By encouraging healthcare accountability over a lifetime, my bill will serve as an important piece in ensuring that our citizens and nation thrive in the decades ahead.” To view the original text of the bill, click here.
12.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing his substitute amendment to the Continuing Resolution (CR) that would set the discretionary budget at the $1.04 trillion level and would include the defunding of fourteen major provisions: “It is the obligation of Congress to work towards balancing the budget and to restore its Article I constitutional authority.” said King. “My substitute amendment to the CR would accomplish both by setting the discretionary budget at the $1.04 trillion level, a $30 billion reduction from the current level, and defunding the fourteen following provisions: 1. Defund President Obama’s unconstitutional amnesty programs for illegal aliens, chiefly DACA, DAPA and the Morton memos. 2. Defund Obamacare in its entirety as if it had never been enacted. 3. Defund the President’s attempt to bring potentially dangerous refugees into the U.S. 4. Defund the President’s unconstitutional agency guidance dealing with trans-gender bathrooms in schools. 5. Defund the Department of Labor’s Overtime Rule. 6. Defund the Environmental Protection Agency’s overreaching and invasive Waters Of The United States definition. 7. Defund the Department of Labor’s Fiduciary Rule. 8. Defund the Clean Power Plan Rule. 9. Block any federal funding from going to Planned Parenthood. 10. Defund the President’s Iran Nuclear Deal, one of the most dangerous proposals of our time. 11. Defund any and all executive action that upholds policy products of the COP21 Conference agreement. 12. Defund executive enforcement of the Obergefell Supreme Court decision. 13. Defund Dodd-Frank in its entirety. 14. Defund Internet domain transfer. With an imminent Trump presidency, Congress can finally fulfill the promises we made to our constituents to balance an out of control budget filled with unconstitutional provisions and fight for the American people.” To view the original text of the amendment, click here.
11.21.2016	“Last year, both the Senate and the House passed a resolution of disapproval (S.J.Res.22), led by Senator Ernst to scrap this harmful rule. It passed each chamber with bipartisan support, but our current president vetoed it anyway.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Iowa's U.S. Senators Joni Ernst and Chuck Grassley and Representatives Steve King (R-04), Rod Blum (R-01) and David Young (R-03) sent President-elect Donald J. Trump a letter urging him to scrap the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule in the first few days of his presidency. In the letter, members of the Iowa delegation wrote, “This misguided WOTUS rule is an economic assault on small businesses, manufacturing and agriculture, and threatens the very livelihood of our fellow Iowans. These industries are the backbone of this country, especially in rural America. The election results signaled that Americans are ready for the last eight years of EPA’s power grabbing mentality to come to an end.” They added, “Last year, both the Senate and the House passed a resolution of disapproval (S.J.Res.22), led by Senator Ernst to scrap this harmful rule. It passed each chamber with bipartisan support, but our current president vetoed it anyway.” The members urged strong action, concluding, “… we strongly encourage you to use all the tools at your disposal to free the American people from this blatant overreach. We also respectfully urge you to direct your EPA to craft a common-sense rule that clarifies the scope of the CWA and does so by taking into consideration the input of all stakeholders.” Click here or see below to view the full letter to President-elect Donald J. Trump. November 21, 2016 The Honorable Donald Trump The President-elect Trump Tower 725 5th Ave New York, NY 10022 We write to you today to express our strong concern about the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Waters of the U.S. rule (WOTUS), and we respectfully urge you to do everything within your power as chief executive to stop this harmful rule in the first days of your presidency. This misguided WOTUS rule is an economic assault on small businesses, manufacturing and agriculture, and threatens the very livelihood of our fellow Iowans. These industries are the backbone of this country, especially in rural America. The election results signaled that Americans are ready for the last eight years of EPA’s power grabbing mentality to come to an end. As you know, the Clean Water Act (CWA) was created to address pollution problems in the nation’s navigable waters and improve water quality through a local-state-federal partnership. While we fully support this goal, the scope of the expanded WOTUS definition far exceeds what was originally intended by Congress when it enacted the CWA. Under the guise of protecting clean water, the current administration’s EPA is not just seeking to expand its jurisdiction over waters not originally covered under the CWA, but also on private land. For example, the WOTUS rule could give EPA extensive power to regulate activities on 97 percent of the land in Iowa. This rule will no doubt leave our nation’s job creators in a wave of legal uncertainty, compliance burdens, and increased costs. Last year, both the Senate and the House passed a resolution of disapproval (S.J.Res.22), led by Senator Ernst to scrap this harmful rule. It passed each chamber with bipartisan support, but our current president vetoed it anyway. Thankfully a nationwide stay has been placed on the rule by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, but it could be years until this litigation is settled. Meanwhile the business owners, farmers, ranchers, and private landowners in communities across the country are left with uncertainty, and are concerned that the EPA will continue to take steps to implement the rule through a piecemeal approach. As mentioned above, we strongly encourage you to use all the tools at your disposal to free the American people from this blatant overreach. We also respectfully urge you to direct your EPA to craft a common-sense rule that clarifies the scope of the CWA and does so by taking into consideration the input of all stakeholders. Sincerely, Joni K. Ernst Chuck Grassley United States Senator United States Senator Steve King United States Congressman David Young Rod Blum United States Congressman United States Congressman
11.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after President Obama approved Gov. Terry Branstad’s request to declare 19 Iowa counties impacted by severe flooding on September 21-23 of this year as a federal disaster area. “I am thankful that President Obama has granted Gov. Branstad’s request and the Iowa congressional delegation’s appeal to issue a Presidential Disaster Declaration for 19 Iowa counties devastated by flooding earlier this year,” said King. “Providing federal funding under the Public Assistance Program, this declaration will put in place both long-term and short-term programs to help re-build our communities. It will also allow for hazard mitigation activities throughout the state to strengthen existing infrastructure and minimize damage from future storms or possible flooding. Although our state’s loss has been sobering, Iowans are smart, hardworking and resilient people who are diligently putting their lives back together.” The counties included in the declaration are: Allamakee, Benton, Black Hawk, Bremer, Buchanan, Butler, Cerro Gordo, Chickasaw, Clayton, Delaware, Des Moines, Fayette, Floyd, Franklin, Howard, Linn, Mitchell, Winneshiek and Wright.
11.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement concerning the ambush and murder of two Iowa police officers early this morning in Des Moines: “Our hearts and prayers are with the families of our two Des Moines metro police officers who were tragically murdered early this morning,” said King. “This is a sickening tragedy experienced by our state and Nation today, and this is a very important time for us to stand together in support of our men and women in Blue. Please join me in continued prayer for the affected families and for all of our law enforcement officers. They have lost two of their own and we have lost two of our heroes.” Congressman King has ordered all of his district offices to lower their flags to half-staff in honor of the two officers whose lives were tragically lost today.
10.21.2016	Washington D.C. – The entire Iowa congressional delegation today urged President Obama to support Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad’s request to declare 19 Iowa counties a federal disaster area. The declaration would make the counties eligible to receive federal aid for the damage inflicted by high winds, severe thunderstorms, heavy rains, hail and flash flooding and resulted in riverine flooding from Sept. 21 through Oct. 3, 2016. “The Governor determined that this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments to handle effectively and federal assistance is needed,” the delegation wrote. “In many locations, the flooding was at a near record level, second only to the flood of 2008.” The 19 counties included in this request are Allamakee, Benton, Black Hawk, Bremer, Buchanan, Butler, Cerro Gordo, Chickasaw, Clayton, Delaware, Des Moines, Fayette, Floyd, Franklin, Howard, Linn, Mitchell, Winneshiek, and Wright. Signing the letter were Sen. Chuck Grassley, Sen. Joni Ernst, Rep. Steve King, Rep. Dave Loebsack, Rep. Rod Blum and Rep. David Young. The signed letter is available here. The text is copied below. October 21, 2016 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States of America The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We respectfully ask that you grant the request made by Governor Terry Branstad for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Iowa as a result of severe weather that produced high winds, severe thunderstorms, heavy rains, hail, flash flooding, and resulted in riverine flooding from September 21 through October 3, 2016. This weather caused significant damage to public infrastructure and private property. The nineteen counties included in this request are Allamakee, Benton, Black Hawk, Bremer, Buchanan, Butler, Cerro Gordo, Chickasaw, Clayton, Delaware, Des Moines, Fayette, Floyd, Franklin, Howard, Linn, Mitchell, Winneshiek, and Wright. The Governor determined that this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments to handle effectively and federal assistance is needed. In many locations, the flooding was at a near record level, second only to the flood of 2008. Thank you for your prompt consideration and declaration of this major disaster for the State of Iowa. Sincerely, Senator Chuck Grassley Senator Joni K. Ernst Representative Steve King Representative David Loebsack Representative Rod Blum Representative David Young
10.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Steve King, Sen. Chuck Grassley, Sen. Joni Ernst, Rep. Rod Blum, Rep. David Young, and Rep. Dave Loebsack sent a letter to Governor Terry Branstad supporting the State of Iowa in its response and recovery efforts underway for the severe weather and flooding event starting September 21st. The delegation states in the letter, “The State of Iowa and its federal partners have coordinated well to mitigate the impact of this flooding; however, much remains to be done. While we do not yet have a clear picture of the full scope of the damage, assessments are underway, and we will soon know more about the extent of the impact of these weather events. The initial damage assessment reports have been sobering, though losses may have been even greater and more devastating if not for the outstanding efforts made by the emergency managers of each of the affected counties, and we would like to recognize and thank them for their commendable work.” Iowans are smart, hardworking and resilient people working diligently to put their lives back together. The delegation wishes to express their full and undivided support for any request made by the Governor to the President to declare the affected areas a federal disaster, should final damage assessments prove that such a request is justified. To view the original letter, click here. The text follows: October 7, 2016 Governor Terry Branstad Office of the Governor 1007 East Grand Avenue Des Moines, IA 50319 Dear Governor Branstad, As you well know, severe weather and flooding, starting on the evening September 21st of this year, has affected nearly one-third of Iowa. This disaster has damaged homes, businesses, agricultural land and resources and disrupted the lives and livelihoods of thousands. The weather events on September 21st and September 22nd included torrential rainfall, with as much as 10 inches of rain falling in one location within a few hours, localized flash flooding, damaging winds, hail, and at least one tornado. Areas directly affected by severe flooding include, but are not limited to, nearly the entirety of the Upper Mississippi River Basin in Iowa. More specifically, this includes flooding within the Coon-Yellow Watershed, the Upper Iowa Watershed, the Turkey Watershed, the Grant-Little Maquoketa Watershed, the Upper Wapsipinicon Watershed, the Shell Rock Watershed, and the majority of the Cedar River Basin, including areas along the Iowa River in the Upper Iowa and Middle Iowa watersheds. This unprecedented flooding resulted in a record crest of the Shell Rock River at Greene and Shell Rock, 1.1 feet above the previous record crest set in 2008. The State of Iowa and its federal partners have coordinated well to mitigate the impact of this flooding. We appreciate the many updates throughout the response and now during the recovery process. However, we know much remains to be done. While we do not yet have a clear picture of the full scope of the damage, we know that the joint damage assessments are underway. The initial damage assessment reports have been sobering, though losses may have been dramatically greater and more devastating if not for the outstanding efforts made by the state, cities, and county emergency managers of the affected areas. We would like to recognize and thank everyone for their commendable work. As the smart, hardworking, resilient people of Iowa work diligently to put their lives back together and move forward, we express our full and undivided support for any request that you may make of the President to declare these areas a federal disaster, should final damage assessments prove that such a request is justified. Sincerely, Rep. Steve King Sen. Chuck Grassley Sen. Joni K. Ernst Rep. Rod Blum Rep. David Young Rep. Dave Loebsack
09.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Steve King, Sen. Chuck Grassley, Sen. Joni Ernst, Rep. Dave Loebsack, Rep. Rod Blum, and Rep. David Young are asking the top House and Senate committee leaders to retain Iowa projects in the final version of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 for potential congressional consideration later this fall. The Iowa projects are: Cedar River, Cedar Rapids. The language calls for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to expedite the completion of the authorized project for flood damage reduction and flood risk management. Cedar Rapids endured a 500-year flood in 2008 and worked with the Corps of Engineers to develop a project to address that flood risk. Congress authorized the project in the Water Resources and Reform Act of 2014. To date, no construction funds for this project have been budgeted. This provision clearly shows the intent of Congress for this project to be a priority at the Corps of Engineers. This provision was included in both the Senate and House versions of the bill. Corps levees that affect community-owned levees. The bill language says that where federally owned and operated levees increase flood risk and compromise the accreditation of community-owned local flood protection systems, it shall be the policy of the Corps of Engineers to act expeditiously with actions required to authorize, fund, identify, and implement improvements to reduce and negate negative impacts to community-owned flood protection system accreditation. Des Moines’s DM-I levee is hydraulically connected to the Red Rock Reservoir Remedial Works – Southeast Des Moines/Southwest Pleasant Hill Remedial Works (SEDM) Levee. The SEDM levee is primarily operated and maintained by the Corps of Engineers Red Rock Project Office. FEMA considers the DM-I and SEDM levees as part of the same system of flood control so it is required that SEDM be accredited in order for DM-I to be accredited. This provision instructs the Corps of Engineers to act expeditiously with all actions that impacts Des Moines’ flood protection system accreditation. This provision was included in the House version of the bill. Dubuque. The bill language calls for a study to determine the feasibility of modifying the flood protection system to increase the level of flood protection and reduce flood damages. Dubuque is actively working on addressing all of its flood protection needs. This study will assist Dubuque’s efforts by determining if additional protection or modifications are needed along the Mississippi River. This provision was included in both the Senate and House versions of the bill. A Government Accountability Office study on the Corps of Engineers’ methodology and performance metrics used to calculate benefit-cost ratios and evaluate construction projects. There are concerns with projects in Iowa, such as in Cedar Rapids, and across the country regarding the methodology used to calculate benefit-cost ratios during the feasibility study portion of construction projects. This ratio is used by the Office of Management and Budget to prioritize projects. This study will review the methodology and performance metrics used to calculate the benefit-cost ratios used by the Corps of Engineers. This provision was included in both the Senate and House versions of the bill. Upper Mississippi and Illinois Rivers Comprehensive Flood Risk Management. The bill language calls for a study of the levees along the upper Mississippi and Illinois Rivers on a system-wide basis, to evaluate the flood damage risks on a system-wide rather than local basis, and justify projects on that basis. This review was recommended by the Corps of Engineers in a 2008 study and by the Secretary of the Army in a 2009 letter to Congress to address the fact that a rehabilitation of a levee at a single location often cannot be cost-justified but each location is an integral part of a levee system that provides essential flood protection benefits. This provision was included in the Senate version of the bill. The delegation letter to the leaders of the relevant committee leaders is available here. The text follows. September 29, 2016 The Honorable James Inhofe The Honorable Bill Shuster Chairman Chairman Senate Committee on Environment & House Committee on Transportation & Public Works Infrastructure Dirksen 410 Rayburn 2251 Washington DC 20510 Washington DC 20515 The Honorable Barbara Boxer The Honorable Peter DeFazio Ranking Member Ranking Member Senate Committee on Environment & House Committee on Transportation & Public Works Infrastructure Dirksen 410 Rayburn 2251 Washington DC 20510 Washington DC 20515 Dear Chairmen and Ranking Members: We respectfully request the following provisions be retained in the final version of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016. Cedar River, Cedar Rapids. The Corps of Engineers shall expedite the completion of the authorized project for flood damage reduction and flood risk management. Corps Levees that Affect Community Owned Levees. Where federally owned and operated levees increase flood risk and compromise the accreditation of community-owned local flood protection systems, it shall be the policy of the Corps of Engineers to act expeditiously with actions required to authorize, fund, identify, and implement improvements to reduce and negate negative impacts to community-owned flood protection system accreditation. Dubuque. Study to determine the feasibility of modifying the flood protection system to increase the level of flood protection and reduce flood damages. Government Accountability Office study on the Corps of Engineers’ methodology and performance metrics used to calculate benefit-cost ratios and evaluate construction projects. Upper Mississippi and Illinois Rivers Comprehensive Flood Risk Management. Study of the levees along the upper Mississippi and Illinois Rivers on a system-wide basis, to evaluate the flood damage risks on a system-wide rather than local basis, and justify projects on that basis. Thank you for your time and attention to these important provisions for Iowa. Sincerely, _________________________ _________________________ Senator Chuck Grassley Senator Joni K. Ernst _________________________ _________________________ Representative Steve King Representative David Loebsack _________________________ _________________________ Representative Rod Blum Representative David Young
09.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting his substitute conservative Continuing Resolution (CR), H.J. RES. 99, that would set the discretionary budgetary level at $1.04 trillion, and will include defunding fourteen of President Obama’s unconstitutional major policies and programs: “It is the obligation of Congress to restore its Article I Constitutional authority by ultimately working towards balancing the budget,” said King. “As a result of Congress failing to make any progress in that direction, I have introduced a substitute conservative CR that would set the discretionary budget at the $1.04 trillion level, fulfilling the promise Congress made to the American people in the Budget Control Act of 2011 and making a nearly $30 billion annual savings from the current level. It would also eradicate the fourteen following provisions: 1.Defund President Obama’s amnesty programs for illegal aliens; specifically: DACA, DAPA, and the Morton memos. 2.Defund Obamacare. 3.Defund the President’s attempt to bring refugees into the U.S. 4.Defund the President’s agency guidance dealing with trans-gender bathrooms in schools. 5.Defund the Department of Labor’s Overtime Rule. 6.Defund EPA’s new WOTUS definition. 7.Defund the Department of Labor’s Fiduciary Rule. 8.Defund the Clean Power Plan Rule. 9.Block any federal funding from going to Planned Parenthood. 10.Defund the President’s Iran Nuclear Deal. 11.Defund any and all executive action that upholds policy products of the COP21 Conference agreement. 12.Defund executive enforcement of the Obergefell Supreme Court decision. 13.Defund Dodd-Frank in its entirety. 14.Defund internet domain transfer. Running through February 2017, this CR would defund wasteful and unconstitutional spending while supporting and defending Congress’s Constitutional authority. It is time Congress fulfilled the promises we all made to our constituents in 2014. Right now, the future of our nation and the future of the next generation hangs in the balance. Instead of kicking the can down the road by passing a clean CR, we are situated to actually fight to defund these items, fight for our budget, and fight for the American people.” Original Co-Sponsors: Rep. Brian Babin [R-TX-36] Rep. Mo Brooks [R-AL-05] Rep. Louie Gohmert [R-TX-01] Rep. Paul Gosar [R-AZ-04] Rep. Andy Harris [R-MD-01] Rep. Jody Hice [R-GA-10] Rep. Tim Huelskamp [R-KS-01] Rep. Doug LaMalfa [R-CA-01] Rep. Robert Pittenger [R-NC-09] Rep. Ted Yoho [R-FL-03] To view the original text of the CR, click here.
09.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the serious flooding in Iowa: “Iowans have been impacted by severe flooding, in some areas above 2008 levels,” said King. “I recall the epic 2008 flood and the way neighbor helped neighbor throughout much of the same area. Iowans are lifting each other out of the water and muck again, setting the standard. I have been reviewing flood damage in the communities impacted including Clarksville, Shell Rock, Greene and Charles City today and hearing from those affected, emergency workers, and volunteers. My staff has also been out sandbagging and helping in whatever way necessary. My prayers are with all who are being tested – Iowans will rebuild and my staff and I are here to help in anyway that we can.” To stay up to date in real time please visit my Facebook page. More important information below: Be Informed/Know the Danger: Keep track of severe weather and flood forecasts, and take them seriously. To do that: Monitor newspaper, radio and TV reports of current and predicted weather conditions; Keep a NOAA Weather radio turned on and charged up to get alerts around the clock; Set mobile devices to alert with the latest weather information. Make it easy by downloading and using a free FEMA app, which provides real-time weather alerts from the National Weather Service for up to five locations anywhere in Iowa or the nation. The app also provides valuable safety tips to help families prepare for, and recover from, more than 20 natural and man-made hazards, including how to make a family communication plans, a customizable checklist of emergency supplies and maps of open shelters and disaster recovery centers. The app is available on the Apple App Store and on Google Play. Plan for the Worst: Severe weather can strike suddenly so have a plan to stay safe and take life-saving action if needed. The plan should include: Actions to take if it’s necessary to shelter-in-place; Where each person/pet will go to get out of danger; How each person/pet will get to a place of safety; How family and friends will communicate with one another if evacuation to or from different locations becomes necessary. For more information on creating an emergency plan, visit www.Ready.gov or www.beready.iowa.gov. Be Ready: Gather essential items in one place if evacuation is needed. Those should include: Wallets, purses, car/house keys, eyeglasses, cash, credit cards; Medicine and basic first-aid supplies; Daily living supplies for infants/young children, family members who are elderly or have access and functional needs, and pets; Important information such as numbers for bank accounts, insurance policies (health, auto and property) and credit cards; Important phone numbers of relatives, employers, schools and medical professionals such as pharmacies, physicians and veterinarians; Chargers for mobile devices; One or more changes of clothes. Include long pants, socks, boots and/or sturdy shoes; Bottled water and high-protein, non-perishable food such as a peanut butter, tuna and nuts. Talk through the emergency plan with all family members so that everyone knows what to do. If there is time, consider making a more complete emergency supply kit for homes and cars. To learn how, visitwww.Ready.gov or www.beready.iowa.gov. Know What to Do: Understand severe weather terms and know what to do for each. o Watch means a specific type of threat (flooding, tornadoes) could be forming; o Warning means take action. Life/property threatening conditions are occurring or imminent. Heed emergency instructions. If told to evacuate, go immediately! Move immediately to higher ground if flash flooding is possible. Don’t wait to be told. DO NOT DRIVE THROUGH FLOOD WATER, even if you know the road. Turn around, don’t drown! Abandon mobile homes. They offer little to no protection, even if tied down. Don’t touch downed power lines or objects in contact with downed lines. Report electrical hazards, downed lines and gas leaks to the police and utility companies. Don’t re-enter damaged structures without first checking to see if they are safe. Follow FEMA online at www.twitter.com/fema, www.facebook.com/fema, and www.youtube.com/fema. Find regional updates from FEMA Region VII at www.twitter.com/femaregion7. Also, follow Administrator Craig Fugate's activities atwww.twitter.com/craigatfema. The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government websites, companies or applications. FEMA’s mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.
09.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H.R. 6119, the Choices in Education Act of 2016. This bill would both promote and protect school choice by ensuring States the ability to carry out their education voucher program and by giving parents the ability to choose the best form of education for their children. “As the spouse of a former Iowa teacher, I understand that it’s the right thing for our children to take their education decision out of the hands of the federal government and put it back in the hands of parents who know how best to meet the educational needs of their students,” said King. “The Choices in Education Act does just that by repealing the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) of 1965 and therefore, limiting the authority of the Secretary of Education. This bill will ensure that the Secretary is properly making payments to the States regarding voucher programs and that the States are complying with school choice requirements. To receive a grant or voucher under my legislation, the State must ensure that the funds would be distributed appropriately on a per pupil basis. Additionally and most importantly, this bill makes it lawful for the parent to make the ultimate decision between public, private or home-school education for their children. This form of school choice will result in parents being able to send their children to safer, better schools by taking Federal dollars from failing No Child Left Behind (NCLB) and Common Core programs and giving families direct control over important educational decisions. This is an opportunity to work for the well-being of our country by reclaiming our culture. This bill puts competition back into our K-12 schools. The result will be better, more effective schools, public or private. Finally, this legislation also includes my previously introduced bill - the No Hungry Kids Act which would repeal the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) new standards that have left children across the nation hungry during the school day because of calorie rationing. The original goal of the school lunch program was – and is – to ensure students receive enough nutrition to be healthy and to learn. The misguided nanny state, as advanced by Michelle Obama's ‘Healthy and Hunger Free Kids Act’ and interpreted by Secretary Vilsack, forces every child on a diet because some kids are overweight. This act replaces those standards, prohibits the USDA's upper caloric limits, and protects the right of parents to send their children to school with the foods of their choice. Schools must be serving our students as much nutritious food as they need, so that our students can grow, learn and excel, in school and out of school – in the classroom and on the playing field.” To view the original text of the bill, click here.
09.21.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following questioning of IRS Commissioner John Koskinen during this morning’s House Judiciary Committee’s “Hearing on the Impeachment Articles Referred on John Koskinen, Part III.” To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
09.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after he, Representative Randy Weber and Representative Louie Gohmert sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security, The Honorable Jeh Johnson, calling on him to publically renounce the Muslim Brotherhood and any further dealings with organizations like the Islamic Society of North America. “It is appalling to know that the Secretary of Homeland Security for the Unites States, Jeh Johnson, appeared last Sunday before the Islamic Society of North America (ISNA), the largest Muslim Brotherhood front in our country today,” said King. “The Brotherhood has been more than vocal about their intent in America: ‘destroying Western Civilization from within.’ Furthermore, ISNA has been identified as the first of 29 groups the Brotherhood has openly referred to as ‘our organizations and organizations of our friends.’ The letter to Secretary Johnson states, ‘Congress and the American people are increasingly seized with the danger posed by this sort of “civilization jihad” in our country. As evidence of the American people’s concern for the threat posed by the Muslim Brotherhood, H.R. 3892, the Muslim Brotherhood Terrorist Designation Act of 2015, has 64 bipartisan cosponsors and was favorably reported out of the House Judiciary Committee this past February….It is astounding that the individual principally charged with defending the homeland would legitimize, let alone pander to, an organization or its proxy that poses a threat to our constitutional republic and its people.’ Therefore, I have called upon Secretary Johnson to publicly renounce the Muslim Brotherhood and suspend any further dealings with the Islamic Society of North America.” Click here to read the full letter.
07.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in regards to voting YES on senate amendment to S. 764, an Act to reauthorize and amend the National Sea Grant College Program Act, and for other purposes: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
07.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following House Floor statement on his Davis Bacon Repeal Amendment to H.R. 5538, Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
07.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following questioning of Attorney General Loretta Lynch in the House Judiciary Committee’s oversight hearing of the Department of Justice. Mr. King examined both the DOJ’s failure to press criminal charges against Hillary Clinton for her mishandling of classified information and the Attorney General’s secret meeting with former President Bill Clinton in light of FBI Director Comey's announcement. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full statement, click here.
07.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Chairman Steve King released the following statement at the opening of the House Judiciary’s Executive Overreach Task Force’s hearing on “Executive Overreach in Regulatory Enforcement and Infrastructure.” Mr. King is the chairman of the task force. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full statement, click here.
07.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King introduced Sarah’s Law today in honor of Sarah Root, a 21 year-old girl from Iowa who graduated from Bellvue University with a 4.0 degree in crime investigation. Sadly, her life tragically ended when she was murdered by 19 year-old Eswin Mejia, an illegal immigrant: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full statement, click here. Sarah’s Law requires U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to take into custody illegal aliens who have been charged in the United States with a crime resulting in the death or serious bodily injury of another person. U.S. Senators Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst from Iowa and Senators Deb Fischer and Ben Sasse from Nebraska introduced a companion bill in the Senate last week. To read Mr. King’s oped detailing more about Sarah Root’s story and his time spent with her family, click here. To view the original text of the bill, click here.
07.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Chairman Steve King released the following statement at the opening of the House Judiciary’s Executive Overreach Task Force’s hearing on “The Federal Government on Autopilot: Mandatory Spending and the Entitlement Crisis.” Mr. King is the chairman of the task force. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full statement, click here.
06.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, July 6, 2016 at 1:00 p.m., the Task Force on Executive Overreach will hold a hearing titled, “The Federal Government on Autopilot: Mandatory Spending and the Entitlement Crisis.” Since the 1930s, the federal government has grown exponentially through the creation of entitlement programs to deliver retirement and health benefits to the American people, such as Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, Food Stamps, unemployment insurance, the Earned Income Tax Credit, disability insurance, and others. With many of the entitlement programs growing automatically, it has had a dramatic impact on other government spending, including funding for the military and for operation of the federal courts, the deficit, and overall fiscal health. At the hearing, members of the task force will examine the issues surrounding federal mandatory spending. Witnesses for the hearing are: Eugene Steuerle, Institute Fellow and Richard B. Fisher Chair, Urban Institute Scott Lilly, Senior Fellow, Center for American Progress Nicholas Eberstadt, Henry Wendt Scholar in Political Economy, American Enterprise Institute Below is a statement from Congressman Steve King (R-Iowa), the chairman of the Task Force, and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) on the hearing. “Our nation’s entitlement programs are on autopilot, driving our nation further and further into debt and putting a tighter and tighter squeeze on spending for important functions like funding the military and the federal courts. This path is unsustainable. The Task Force on Executive Overreach will examine the many issues fueling our nation’s entitlement crisis and look for ways to rein in this growing problem.” This hearing will take place in 2237 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/. Camera crews wishing to cover must be congressionally-credentialed and RSVP with the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214. Background on the Task Force: The Task Force on Executive Overreach is authorized for six months and is studying the impact the increase in presidential and executive branch power has had on the ability of Congress to conduct oversight of the executive branch, the lack of transparency that furthers unchecked executive power, and the constitutional requirement of the President to faithfully execute the law. Additionally, the task force is reviewing the tools at the disposal of the Congress to restore the proper balance of powers and hold the executive branch accountable. It will make recommendations where there are deficiencies, including legislative solutions. https://judiciary.house.gov/press-release/task-force-examine-federal-mandatory-spending-entitlement-crisis/
06.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling on the Texas abortion access law, Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt: “Today, the Supreme Court voted 5-3 to strike down a Texas law which placed reasonable restrictions on abortions, creating another example of gross overreach by the Court to further entrench a radical, progressive, godless agenda on the American people and cut down the power of the states,” said King. “Since Roe v. Wade was unconstitutionally decided in 1973, nearly sixty million innocent babies' lives have been ended by the abortion industry, all with a rubber stamp by the federal government. Every year, nearly 1,000 Texas women are hospitalized as a result of botched abortions. The Texas law, requiring doctors performing abortions to have admitting privileges at a hospital within thirty miles of the abortion facility and the abortion facility to have the same minimum quality standards as an ambulatory surgical center, would have taken major steps to reduce that disturbing number. This law would have insured that abortions performed in Texas were done with the maximum safety of patients in mind. The Supreme Court has once again overreached and decided it knows better than the reasoned judgment of the State of Texas. This further perverts the original understanding of the Constitution that specifically reserves these rights to the states. This case further underscores the importance of presidential appointments to the federal bench. It is even more important that Senator Grassley continues to hold the line until the next president so that we have the best chance to reform the court. Human Life is sacred in all of its forms. I will continue to fight to protect the lives of the innocent unborn and the original meaning of our Constitution.”
06.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling on the Texas abortion access law, Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt: “Today, the Supreme Court voted 5-3 to strike down a Texas law which placed reasonable restrictions on abortions, creating another example of gross overreach by the Court to further entrench a radical, progressive, godless agenda on the American people and cut down the power of the states,” said King. “Since Roe v. Wade was unconstitutionally decided in 1973, nearly sixty million innocent babies' lives have been ended by the abortion industry, all with a rubber stamp by the federal government. Every year, nearly 1,000 Texas women are hospitalized as a result of botched abortions. The Texas law, requiring doctors performing abortions to have admitting privileges at a hospital within thirty miles of the abortion facility and the abortion facility to have the same minimum quality standards as an ambulatory surgical center, would have taken major steps to reduce that disturbing number. This law would have insured that abortions performed in Texas were done with the maximum safety of patients in mind. The Supreme Court has once again overreached and decided it knows better than the reasoned judgment of the State of Texas. This further perverts the original understanding of the Constitution that specifically reserves these rights to the states. This case further underscores the importance of presidential appointments to the federal bench. It is even more important that Senator Grassley continues to hold the line until the next president so that we have the best chance to reform the court. Human Life is sacred in all of its forms. I will continue to fight to protect the lives of the innocent unborn and the original meaning of our Constitution.”
06.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement that was submitted into the record at the House Subcommittee on Energy and Power in regards to the Implementation Standards of the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS): “I want to thank Chairman Whitfield and Ranking Member Rush for accepting my testimony today on the importance of maintaining the RFS program, said King. Energy is at the heart of the American economy. Energy powers our homes and businesses, and it is vital that America has access to the most affordable and most extensive sources of energy possible. Moreover, our national security is also tied to the energy sector. If we rely on sources of energy that come from abroad, then we expose our nation to the whims of tyrants and terrorist sponsoring states. The Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) was created with these goals in mind: to promote the development of affordable, low pollution, domestically produced fuel sources. Not only have these goals been met thus far, but the RFS and the work and innovation of our biofuels industry over the last few decades has allowed the fields that have fed the world, to fuel it as well. To examine further the benefits of the RFS, I want to highlight an academic work done by professors Dermot Hayes of economics and finance at Iowa State University, and Xiaodong Du of the Department of Agricultural and Applied Economics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Their analytical report entitled “The Impact of Ethanol Production on US and Regional Gasoline Markets: An Update to May 2009”, showcases the breathtaking and positive effects that ethanol and the RFS have had for the American economy. Their work concluded that in 2010 alone the effect of ethanol being blended into the fuel market lowered the price of the average gallon of gasoline by $0.89, saving Americans around $120 billion per year at the pump. They also concluded that if ethanol were suddenly removed from the fuel market altogether, the resulting gasoline price spike would be between 41% and 92%, crippling the US economy and almost certainly plunging our fragile economy back into recession. Beyond the substantial economic benefits for American families, a Congressional Research report from 2012 asserts that in the first six years after the implementation of the RFS oil imports declined by 33%. Furthermore, this report forecasts that over the next 20 years US oil imports will be less than a third of what they would have been expected to be prior to passage of the RFS. This dramatic decrease in imported oil helps to safeguard the national security interests of the United States by insulating our economy from the supply shocks and price volatility that is intrinsic to the world’s petroleum market. Due to the irregularity of global production of crude and refined petroleum products, a reliance on these goods for energy exposes our nation to possible catastrophe. The oil crisis of the 1970s and the resulting stagflation serve as a warning and a reminder of the danger of relying on a 100% petroleum mandate. The oil crisis of the 1970s also reminds us of the damage that Iran, a known state sponsor of terrorism, can inflict on the US by manipulating their oil production. The RFS has tremendously reduced the amount of US dollars that have been sent to terrorist sponsoring nations, such as the Islamic Republic of Iran. There is no serious doubt that if we had the RFS and our present biofuels industry in the 1970s, it would have substantially mitigated the very serious damage to our economy while, at the same time, limited or even eliminated the Great Farm Crisis of the 1980s. In my home of Iowa we all know the benefits of biofuels that I have outlined here, but unfortunately not everyone does. This is why I have championed the fight to maintain the original volumes of biofuels in the RFS. The biofuels industry has created countless American jobs and has spurred economic growth across our country. The biofuels sector has directly added $5.6 billion of GDP and 62,000 jobs to the state of Iowa alone. In Iowa we produced about 30% of the nation’s ethanol, saving Americans tens of billions of dollars at the pump each year. Furthermore, we can thank the ethanol industry for having reduced the annual carbon footprint of the United States by the equivalent of 27 million cars. It is thus imperative that the RFS not only continue to remain a policy of the United States, but one that is administered in accordance with established law. Unfortunately, this Administration, in a blatant violation of Congress’s Article I authority and in contravention of established US law, has begun to alter the RFS based on biased and arbitrary positions. Whether or not you agree with the plethora of hard science and academic work that illustrates the positive effects of the RFS, we must stand firm against the abuse of the program by this administration. It is with this in mind that I must stand in opposition to H.R. 5180, a bill that would reward this administration by enshrining into law the very abuse that this President has committed thus far. H.R. 5180 would grant legal cover to the EPA to continue its currently illegal policy of arbitrarily reducing the level of biofuels in America’s fuel economy. The effect of this bill would be to undo the progress of the biofuels industry and the RFS thus far. The President’s abuse of the program has already stunted economic and job growth, leaving fuel prices high, and our nation more susceptible to foreign manipulation of the oil markets. H.R. 5180 would raise the petroleum mandate to 90.3%, weakening the United States and increasing the probability of another oil and economic crisis, similar to that of the 1970s. H.R. 5180 would only serve to aid this President in these endeavors, and to weaken our nation. I urge Congress to preserve our Article I authority, and hold firm to established law. It’s time to reaffirm our support of the RFS; a program that has improved the quality of life of every American, and strengthened our national security. The RFS has been great for Iowa and great for America. It is the only tool that provides market access to ethanol and other renewable fuels so they can be sold in competition with the petroleum industry, which has benefited from a century of Federal subsidies and support. It strengthens our national security, decreases our dependence on foreign sources of energy, gives consumers lower cost options at the pump, and creates jobs for Americans. To weaken, reduce, or eliminate the RFS, as HR 5180 does, moves the US in the direction of a 100% petroleum mandate.”
06.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following House Floor statement on his amendment to H.R. 5293, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, that blocks unaccompanied alien minors on military bases by ensuring no funds are used by the DOD to carry out or in response to the “Memorandum for Secretaries of the Military Departments Director, Joint Staff.” King’s amendment passed, and he ultimately supported the Department of Defense Appropriations Act: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. To view the original amendment text, click here. Congressman King also offered an amendment to H.R. 5293, Department of Defense Appropriations Act that ensures no funds are used by the DOD to enlist DACA youth in the United States military: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. To view the original amendment text, click here.
06.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting YES on H.R. 5053, Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act: “Today the passage of Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act serves as an important win for religious liberty, conservative organizations and all Americans as Congress voted to remove a dangerous part in the IRS’s ability to discriminate for political purposes,” said King. “The Schedule B form, a mandate that requires non-profit groups to report the names of anyone who contributes more than $5,000 and that has been repeatedly used to target conservative groups, will no longer be required. Furthermore over the past few years, the IRS failed to provide any reason for why they actually needed this burdensome form. We must remain vigilant to remove every possible avenue for the IRS to unfairly target any American for their personal religious or political beliefs. Ultimately we should abolish the IRS and enact the FairTax.”
06.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting NO on H.R. 5325, Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2017. “I introduced four separate amendments to the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, none of which were made in order and allowed onto the House Floor.” said King. “My four amendments addressed transgender bathroom policy on Capitol Grounds, barred employment of those unlawfully present, empowered Capitol Police to enforce immigration laws and allowed lawful carry of firearms on Capitol Grounds. In addition to the lack of consideration of my amendments, this bill appropriates spending at the previous $1.070 trillion level created by former Speaker Boehner. We cannot allow Congress to continue appropriating at such high levels, especially considering the nonessential funding exemplified in H.R. 5325. The United States’ current debt is over $19 trillion and this bill fails to achieve our goals to cut our spending levels.” Mr. King’s Four Amendments to the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act: Amendment 1: Transgender bathroom policy Amendment 2: Bars employment of those unlawfully present Amendment 3: Empowers Capitol Police to enforce immigration laws Amendment 4: Allows lawful carry of firearms on Capitol Grounds
06.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting NO on H.R. 5278, Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA): “I introduced three separate amendments to the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act,”said King. “None of which were made in order and allowed onto the House Floor. I am confident my amendments would have taken the necessary strides to create accountability in both Puerto Rico and future situations as they would have prohibited restructuring of debt incurred before enactment of this bill, required the Oversight Board apply only to Puerto Rico and no other territories, and provided that this bill would not apply to any debt obligation supported by the full faith and credit of Puerto Rico. This legislation not only fails to protect the guarantees made to debt holders, but it also sets a dangerous precedent for the future. Now, candidates for governor of Puerto Rico do not support this bailout. I voted NO on H.R.5278 because in its current form, this legislation would not return Puerto Rico to fiscal solvency, and I cannot vote for any legislation that does not move towards that end goal.” Mr. King’s Three Amendments to PROMESA: Amendment 1 Amendment 2 Amendment 3
06.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement to honor the anniversary of the tide turning battle of D-Day: "On this day 72 years ago, the end of World War II began when allied forces stormed the Normandy beaches,” said King. "In this one, historic battle, more than 9,000 allied soldiers were killed or wounded. Because of their sacrifice, our troops were then able to march across European terrain to ultimately defeat Hitler. These brave soldiers protected our stars and stripes and fought for our freedom. I pray we will always support our military, especially today so that President Eisenhower's D-Day message will ring true; 'The hopes and prayers of liberty loving people everywhere march with you.' Let us never forget that these courageous soldiers took on the enemy directly, fighting for liberty and justice and securing our future of freedom.”
05.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting no on H.R. 5055, Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act: “The Maloney Amendment added to the Energy and Water Appropriations Act would have undermined the Soul of America by forcing the federal government and a segment of the private sector to implement President Obama's lawless bathroom policy,” said King. “Additionally, this legislation would have been the most costly Energy and Water appropriation bill in history. It appropriated at the $1.070 trillion overall total discretionary budget level, breaking the original sequestration caps and violating our promise to the American public to rein in federal spending. Section 110 of the bill did, however, improve the politically motivated EPA regulations permitted under WOTUS by prohibiting the Army Corps of Engineers from changing the definition of “navigable waters” under the Clean Water Act. I am encouraged this was added to the bill as it would free family farms, small businesses and other landowners from the EPA’s grasp. I look for Congress to continue moving forward and defund the president’s unconstitutional illegal action. I voted NO on the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, fulfilling the promise I have made to Iowans to protect all Americans from discriminatory laws, cut excess spending and restore Article I Constitutional authority to the United States Congress. The Energy and Water Appropriations Act was voted down on the floor of the House by a vote of 112 to 305 for the very reasons I have given. I hope the bill now comes back up with the changes I've requested.”
05.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, May 24, 2016 at 3:00 p.m., the Task Force on Executive Overreach will hold a hearing titled, “The Federal Government on Autopilot: Delegation of Regulatory Authority to an Unaccountable Bureaucracy.” Since the 1960’s, the portion of the federal budget dedicated to federal regulatory agencies, and their staffing levels, has grown dramatically. Furthermore, there has been a great rise in additional ways the President and federal agencies have deviated from the traditional process of rulemaking, thereby diffusing responsibility for policies in complicated ways few people can even begin to understand. These unorthodox practices have led to the type of legal uncertainty condemned by our Founding Fathers. At the task force hearing, members will explore issues related to the growth in federal regulatory burdens imposed by a largely unaccountable federal bureaucracy. Witnesses for the hearing are: Mr. John D. Graham, Dean, Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Affairs Ms. Sofie E. Miller, Senior Policy Analyst, George Washington University Regulatory Studies Center Ms. Gail Heriot, Member, U.S. Commission on Civil Rights A Democratic witness to be named Below is a statement from Congressman Steve King (R-Iowa), the chairman of the Task Force, and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) on the hearing. “Over the past several decades, federal regulatory agencies have grown dramatically both in power and size. While the federal bureaucracy is largely unaccountable to the American people, its actions have significant implications for our nation and economy. At the task force hearing, we will examine the many issues related to the growth in federal regulatory burdens and look for solutions to rein in this problem.” This hearing will take place in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/. Camera crews wishing to cover must be congressionally-credentialed and RSVP with the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214. Background on the Task Force: The Task Force on Executive Overreach is authorized for six months and will study the impact the increase in presidential and executive branch power has had on the ability of Congress to conduct oversight of the executive branch, the lack of transparency that furthers unchecked executive power, and the constitutional requirement of the President to faithfully execute the law. Additionally, the task force will review the tools at the disposal of the Congress to restore the proper balance of powers and hold the executive branch accountable. It will also make recommendations where there are deficiencies, including legislative solutions.
05.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after federal Judge Rosemary Collyer ruled in favor of Congress in House of Representatives v. Burwell, which argues whether Section 1402 of ObamaCare can be funded without Congressional appropriation: “House of Representatives v. Burwell has now become the most recent court ruling to find President Obama’s executive actions in violation of the Constitution,” said King. “Judge Rosemary Collyer of the U.S. DC District Court has found that the ‘Risk Corridors’, or the cost-sharing subsidies given to insurance providers, cannot be funded without Congressional appropriation. This falls in direct conflict with Section 1402 of ObamaCare and according to Judge Collyer, such an appropriation cannot be inferred since it violates Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 of the United States Constitution. Almost a month ago today, I chaired the House Judiciary’s Task Force on Executive Overreach hearing on domestic affairs, highlighting health care. During that hearing, I warned that the president has exercised sheer will to take legislative authority from Congress. President Obama’s actions in spending unappropriated funds to pay subsidies to health insurers is a primary example in the modern abuse of domestic executive power. The president does not have legislative power under the Constitution outside the ability to veto legislation presented to him, and consequently presidential abuses of power in domestic affairs are particularly grave threats to the individual liberty protected by the Constitution. The ruling in House of Representatives v. Burwell is not only a blow to ObamaCare, but it also stands in opposition to executive overreach and in support of restoring the Rule of Law and Article I authority back to Congress.” To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks on the unconstitutionality of Obamacare during the Task Force on Executive Overreach hearing, “Executive Overreach in Domestic Affairs Part 1 – Health Care and Immigration”, click here.
05.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Thursday, May 12, 2016 at 10:00 a.m., the Task Force on Executive Overreach will hold a hearing titled, “Executive Overreach in Foreign Affairs.” At the hearing, members of the task force will examine several instances in which President Obama has stretched the constitutional limits placed on his authority or simply ignored the law in foreign affairs. For example, President Obama failed to provide Congress with documents required under the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 in his administration’s implementation of the Iran deal. The President also negotiated an international climate change agreement with no intention of ever consulting the Senate for ratification of the pact. Additionally, President Obama ignored federal law by not giving Congress 30-days’ notice before the release of five Taliban prisoners in exchange for Bowe Bergdahl. Witnesses for the hearing are: Mr. Eugene Kontorovich, Professor of Law, Northwestern Law School Mr. Steven Groves, Senior Research Fellow, The Heritage Foundation A Democratic witness to be named Below is a statement from Congressman Steve King (R-Iowa), the chairman of the Task Force, and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) on the hearing. “While the Constitution grants broad authority to the President in foreign affairs, the President’s power is not infinite. From the Bowe Bergdahl swap to the Paris climate change agreement to the Iran deal, President Obama has either stretched his authority beyond recognition or ignored the law to accomplish his foreign affairs agenda. At next week’s task force hearing, we will examine these and other examples of executive overreach in foreign affairs.” This hearing will take place in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/. Camera crews wishing to cover must be congressionally-credentialed and RSVP with the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214. Background on the Task Force: The Task Force on Executive Overreach is authorized for six months and will study the impact the increase in presidential and executive branch power has had on the ability of Congress to conduct oversight of the executive branch, the lack of transparency that furthers unchecked executive power, and the constitutional requirement of the President to faithfully execute the law. Additionally, the task force will review the tools at the disposal of the Congress to restore the proper balance of powers and hold the executive branch accountable. It will also make recommendations where there are deficiencies, including legislative solutions.
05.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement today to highlight the 65th annual observance of the National Day of Prayer: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. “On this National Day of Prayer, I ask each of you to get on your knees and ask God to continue to bless this nation…I pray now that God raises up a leader whom He will use to restore the Soul of America.”
04.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following House Floor statement in support of Senator Chuck Grassley‘s position to hold firm on the Supreme Court Nominee and to put the Constitution back at the forefront of any discussion regarding the next Supreme Court Justice. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
04.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement regarding Tax Day as “just another day:” To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. “It comes around way too fast. I’ve long wanted to end April 15th and turn it into just another day. I’ve been for abolishing the Internal Revenue Service and converting this over to a national sales tax.”
04.15.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement praising MidAmerican Energy Company’s announcement of wind expansion in Iowa: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
04.14.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after welcoming members of the Siouxland Chamber of Commerce to Washington DC for their 62nd annual lobbying trip on Capitol Hill: Congressman Steve King meets with the Siouxland Chamber of Commerce. “I always look forward to meeting with members of the Siouxland Chamber of Commerce for their annual trip,” said King. “This group is like family to me, and I could not be more appreciative of the work they have done and continue to accomplish every year. We discussed important topics including promoting greater economic development in the Siouxland region, vital education programs in our area, and improvements we have made in transportation infrastructure. In fact, it will truly be an honor to see our hard work pay off in the upcoming completion of Highway 20 through our great state, and I look forward to helping cut the completion ribbon in 2018. From the kickoff breakfast to the steak reception it is a great opportunity to hear from these smart, hard-working Iowa business and community leaders. The network we have created over the years is invaluable in moving Siouxland forward. I will remain committed to doing my part in working with them to achieve their goals.”
04.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, April 19, 2016 at 2:00 p.m., the Task Force on Executive Overreach will hold a hearing titled, “Executive Overreach in Domestic Affairs Part II – IRS Abuse, Welfare Reform, and Other Issues.” The task force previously examined President Obama’s failure to constitutionally implement the Affordable Care Act and his abrogation of the nation’s immigration laws, and next week’s hearing will explore other examples of executive overreach in domestic affairs, including IRS abuse, welfare reform work requirement waivers, and unilateral changes of energy law through the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Specifically, the Treasury Inspector General found that conservative organizations were singled out for adverse tax treatment by the IRS and researchers have found that it may have significantly affected the 2012 presidential election. In another instance of overreach, President Obama unilaterally acted to remove the work requirements in the bipartisan federal welfare reforms of 1996. The Obama Administration has also attempted to unilaterally impose energy use rules on the states without congressional authorization. Twenty-six states – now expanded to 29 – asked the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court to intervene immediately to stop this abuse, and the Supreme Court promptly stayed the enforcement of the President’s plan pending a resolution of the constitutional challenges against it. Witnesses for the hearing are: Ms. Cleta Mitchell, Partner, Foley & Lardner, Washington, D.C. Mr. David Bernstein, Professor of Law, Antonin Scalia Law School, and author of Lawless: The Obama Administration’s Unprecedented Assault on the Constitution and the Rule of Law Mr. Andrew Grossman, Partner, Baker & Hostetler, Washington, D.C. A Democratic witness to be named Below is a statement from Congressman Steve King (R-Iowa), the chairman of the Task Force, and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) on the hearing. “Throughout his presidency, President Obama has pushed the constitutional boundaries placed on his authority to enact policies on his own. From refusing to enforce our nation’s immigration laws to rewriting his signature health care law, President Obama has used his pen and phone time and time again to legislate from the Oval Office. “Next week, the task force will continue its examination of the Obama Administration’s continued abuse of power. We will look at the IRS’ targeting of conservative groups, the Obama Administration’s removal of work requirements for federal welfare programs, and the Administration’s re-engineering of our nation’s energy laws through the EPA, not Congress.” This hearing will take place in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/. Camera crews wishing to cover must be congressionally-credentialed and RSVP with the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214. Background on the Task Force: The Task Force on Executive Overreach is authorized for six months and will study the impact the increase in presidential and executive branch power has had on the ability of Congress to conduct oversight of the executive branch, the lack of transparency that furthers unchecked executive power, and the constitutional requirement of the President to faithfully execute the law. Additionally, the task force will review the tools at the disposal of the Congress to restore the proper balance of powers and hold the executive branch accountable. It will also make recommendations where there are deficiencies, including legislative solutions.
03.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement concerning the Brussels terrorist attack this morning: “Our hearts and prayers are with Brussels as I express my deepest condolences to the families of those ruthlessly murdered and to the Belgian people,” said King. “There is no excuse for the horror our world experienced this morning, and there has never been a more important time for us to stand together in fighting terrorism. This devastating attack brings a focus on the duty of Western Civilization - to defeat the ideology of radical Islamic jihad. With the increased acts of terrorism around the world, comes a deepened understanding that these attacks are not isolated incidents. We are at war with radical Islamic terrorists because they actively choose to be at war with us, using their faith as an excuse to kill innocent men, women and children. Today, I stand with Brussels in solidarity, and I vow to fight radical Islamic terrorism.”
03.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following House Floor statement in favor of the Amicus Brief Opposing Obama’s Executive Overreach on Immigration: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
03.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting his Ballot Initiative Amendment, allowing the States and more importantly the People to formally disapprove of refugee resettlement by ballot initiative, to the H.R. 4731 Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act: “It is the obligation of Congress to not only restore its own Article I Constitutional authority but to also give the power back to We the People,” said King. “H.R. 4731 gives power back to the States, preventing refugees from being settled in any State where the governor or State legislature takes action to formally disapprove of refugee resettlement. My amendment goes even further, allowing the People of the States the ultimate power to decide through ballot initiative or other plebiscite activity. Localities can refuse to accept the president’s refugees. The more power we can give back to the People the better and in regards to allowing refugees into the U.S., my amendment will do just that, allowing the People to make the decision for themselves.”
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement regarding March 15, 2016 as National Agriculture Day and also this week being National Agriculture Week: “This week, we are given the opportunity to recognize and celebrate the importance of agriculture in our nation and the tremendous influence our industry has in the world,” said King. “This is especially important given that Iowa is now, and will always be a leader in agriculture. I have long said all new wealth comes from the land and been dedicated to adding value as close to the corn stalk and bean stem as possible, as many times as possible. Iowans have faithfully secured that wealth, ensuring a safe and affordable food supply for not only the U.S. but for the world as well. Today we thank the leaders in the agriculture and food communities who have dedicated themselves to providing abundantly for us. When observing National Agriculture Week there is one constant to be assured of, Iowa and Iowans will be at the center of this global agricultural challenge. Agriculture is in our DNA, and our nation and world will benefit because of the commitment Iowans have to our soil.”
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Chairman Steve King released the following statement at the opening of the House Judiciary’s Executive Overreach Task Force’s second hearing on “Executive Overreach in Domestic Affairs Part I – Health Care and Immigration.” Mr. King is the chairman of the task force. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full statement, click here.
03.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, March 15, 2016 at 10:00 a.m., the Task Force on Executive Overreach will hold a hearing to examine recent examples of executive overreach in which President Obama has failed to faithfully execute the law, including his failure to constitutionally implement the Affordable Care Act and his abrogation of the nation’s immigration laws. In the Affordable Care Act, Congress provided for clear statutory deadlines for compliance, including the mandate requiring employers to comply with the law after December 31, 2013. Yet the Obama Administration has unilaterally stated its policy is to rewrite the law, not by working with the People’s duly elected representatives, but through blog posts, regulatory “fact sheets,” and letters. Additionally, the Obama Administration has admitted to using federal taxpayer money to pay subsidies to insurance companies under the Affordable Care Act even though appropriations for such payments were never made by Congress. This issue led to a federal district court judge allowing the House of Representative’s lawsuit challenging the Administration’s use of non-appropriated funds to proceed. In November 2014, President Obama unilaterally created a program that would suspend immigration laws for potentially over four million people who are in the United States illegally, which is not allowed under the immigration laws passed by Congress. President Obama had previously stated over 20 times his view that it would be illegal for a president to take such a position. Witnesses for the hearing are: Ms. Elizabeth P. Papez, Partner, Winston & Strawn LLP Mr. Josh Blackman, Associate Professor of Law, South Texas College of Law/Houston Mr. Simon Lazarus, Senior Counsel, Constitutional Accountability Center Ms. Elizabeth Slattery, Legal Fellow, Edwin Meese III Center for Legal and Judicial Studies; The Heritage Foundation Below is a statement from Congressman Steve King (R-Iowa), chairman of the Task Force, and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) on the hearing. “Throughout his tenure in office, President Obama has used his pen and phone to effectively legislate from the Oval Office. The President has unilaterally rewritten his signature healthcare law to change the employer mandate compliance date as well as use taxpayer dollars to pay subsidies to insurance companies, even though Congress has not authorized such spending. Additionally, the President has changed our nation’s immigration laws by executive decree to allow millions of unlawful immigrants to stay and work here despite the fact that Congress has not granted that authority to the President. “These unilateral, unconstitutional actions pose a threat to our Republic’s separation of powers. Next week, the Task Force on Executive Overreach will begin its examination of the President’s abuse of authority in domestic affairs and look for solutions to end this growing problem.” This hearing will take place in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/. Camera crews wishing to cover must be congressionally-credentialed and RSVP with the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214. Background on the Task Force: The Task Force on Executive Overreach is authorized for six months and will study the impact the increase in presidential and executive branch power has had on the ability of Congress to conduct oversight of the executive branch, the lack of transparency that furthers unchecked executive power, and the constitutional requirement of the President to faithfully execute the law. Additionally, the task force will review the tools at the disposal of the Congress to restore the proper balance of powers and hold the executive branch accountable. It will also make recommendations where there are deficiencies, including legislative solutions.
03.04.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after he and Chairman Bob Goodlatte sent a letter to Comptroller General of the United States, The Honorable Gene L. Dodaro, at the Government Accountability Office requesting immediate answers to critical questions raised within the criminal justice reform initiative the House Judiciary Committee launched almost a year ago. “We have been told by President Obama that the premise for criminal justice reform lies in the increasing cost of incarceration. In an effort to cut these costs and right supposed wrongs, the President has made a mad dash to release as many criminals as he can,” King said. “In the process, he has completely disregarded the cost of increased crime rates once these prisoners are released. Since the beginning of this initiative, I have repeatedly asked for specifics regarding the rate and cost of recidivism, but to no avail. In a letter to the GAO, Chairman Bob Goodlatte and I have requested their immediate assistance to fully investigate the cost of crime in the United States. I look forward to working with them in finding these answers, striving to deliver justice to the guilty and protect the innocent. This current path of releasing the guilty to terrorize the innocent would truly be the dissolution of our criminal justice system.” Click here to read the full letter.
03.01.2016	Washington, D.C. – Chairman Steve King released the following statement at the opening of the House Judiciary’s Executive Overreach Task Force’s first hearing on “The Original Understanding of the Role of Congress and How Far We’ve Drifted From It.” Mr. King is the chairman of the task force. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full statement, click here.
02.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement after the House Judiciary Committee held a markup of resolution creating a task force on executive overreach. Mr. King has been appointed the chairman of the task force. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. House Judiciary Committee Task Force on Executive Overreach Republican Members: Rep. Steve King (R-IA) – Chairman Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) Rep. Ted Poe (R-Texas) Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) Rep. Raul Labrador (R-Idaho) Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.) Rep. Ken Buck (R-Colo.) Rep. Mike Bishop (R-Mich.) Chairman Goodlatte will serve as an ex officio member
02.24.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, March 1, 2016 at 10:00 a.m., the Task Force on Executive Overreach will hold its first hearing titled “The Original Understanding of Congress’ Role and How Far We’ve Drifted from It.” In writing the U.S. Constitution, the Founders provided the House of Representatives – known as the “People’s House” for its most direct connection to the will of the people – legislative power and the authority to originate revenue bills. The Founders expected the House to aggressively guard its role in the constitutional legislative process. Today, however, Congress exercises far less control over budget and other matters than was originally intended. For example, whereas early Congresses specified exactly how much money would be spent for how long, many federal programs today, enacted by Congresses decades ago, are administered by the executive branch and funded on an auto-pilot basis, their allocations increasing automatically, by statute, without the need for any periodic review by Congress. Compounding this issue is an executive branch that in recent decades has sought to usurp Congress’ authority and legislate on its own. White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough recently said “audacious” executive actions are being crafted to “make sure the steps we have taken are ones we can lock down and not be subjected to undoing through [Congress] or otherwise,” beyond even those unconstitutional actions the President has already taken. Witnesses for next week’s hearing are: Mr. Matthew Spalding, Associate Vice President and Dean of Educational Programs Hillsdale College, Allan P. Kirby, Jr. Center for Constitutional Studies and Citizenship Mr. James C. Capretta, Visiting Fellow, American Enterprise Institute and Senior Fellow, Ethics and Public Policy Center Mr. Joseph Postell, Assistant Professor of Political Science University of Colorado-Colorado Springs A Democratic witness to be named Below is a statement from Congressman Steve King (R-Iowa), the chairman of the Task Force, and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) on next week’s hearing. “Members of the House of Representatives are the closest to the will of the American people as they are more frequently held accountable by voters and elected every two years. For this reason, our Founding Fathers provided the House of Representatives legislative and budgetary power, including the exclusive authority to originate revenue bills. “Next week, the Task Force on Executive Overreach will hold its first hearing on Congress’ role as set forth by the Framers of our Constitution and how far we’ve drifted from it. As the executive branch continues to go beyond its authority and drive us closer to a constitutional crisis, Congress must assert its power to rein in a runaway executive branch and restore the separation of powers.” This hearing will take place in 2237 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/. Camera crews wishing to cover must be congressionally-credentialed and RSVP with the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214. Background on the Task Force: The Task Force on Executive Overreach is authorized for six months and will study the impact the increase in presidential and executive branch power has had on the ability of Congress to conduct oversight of the executive branch, the lack of transparency that furthers unchecked executive power, and the constitutional requirement of the President to faithfully execute the law. Additionally, the task force will review the tools at the disposal of the Congress to restore the proper balance of powers and hold the executive branch accountable. It will also make recommendations where there are deficiencies, including legislative solutions.
02.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after Dow-DuPont announced they did not choose Iowa as the headquarter location for their new agricultural company: “Iowans have always ensured a safe and affordable food supply for not only the U.S. but for the world as well. As a result, this news is more than disappointing for our great state and for all the hard-working men and women who were laid off as a result of Dow-DuPont’s decision to locate their new agricultural headquarters elsewhere,” said King. “My thoughts and prayers are with these families during this difficult time. Last month, I, along with the members of the Iowa delegation, sent a letter to the CEOs of DuPont and Dow, Mr. Edward Breen and Mr. Andrew Liveris. The delegation outlined, in this letter, the many benefits to making Iowa the home of the agricultural company that emerged from the Dow-DuPont merger. The letter stated, ‘We are proud of our state’s leadership in agricultural production – not only as the top biofuels producing state, but also as a world’s leader in corn and soybean output. For these reasons, and many others, Iowa would be a great home for your agriculture company.’ Even though the news is disappointing, this decision does not alter the importance of the work done by Iowa’s agricultural community. Iowa is now, and will always be a leader in agriculture. I have long said all new wealth comes from the land. I hope Dow-DuPont will expand and produce more jobs in our state in the near future. Until then, I will work to bring back those jobs lost to Iowa.” Click here to read the full letter.
02.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the Senate passed Conference Report to Accompany the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act (H.R. 644) in which Mr. King’s immigration language was adopted: “This vote to amend Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) serves as a significant milestone for Congress since it will provide meaningful limitations regarding immigration and climate change on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and any future trade deals under TPA,” said King. “I am confident the President will sign this bill once it reaches his desk. I worked closely with then Chairman Paul Ryan on adding my limitation language which says: ‘To ensure that trade agreements do not require changes to the immigration laws of the United States or obligate the United States to grant access or expand access to visas issued under 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15).’ Further, the Obama administration can no longer use climate change negations to promote its agenda, an order I fought for along with my immigration language. This Customs Bill tells the executive branch that they cannot change our immigration laws or use visa programs as a negotiating tool. Now, all immigration and climate change language must be kept out of future trade agreements negotiated under TPA. I am confident this has improved TPA and ultimately, it restores and preserves Congress’s legislative power.”
02.08.2016	“From the atrocities of Planned Parenthood to the urgent need to rethink immigration policy as part of national security, Rep. Steve King is someone who will go to bat for conservatives in the toughest of fights,” said ACU Chairman Matt Schlapp. “Liberals would like to silence conservatives on these important issues, and conservatives must come together make our voices heard. Always willing to defend the rights of all Americans including the unborn, and always willing to make Americans re-think the difference between immigration and citizenship, we know that Rep. King’s voice is one that won’t be silenced and will bring both passion and principle to our flagship event, CPAC, next month,” said Schlapp. Rep. Steve King, skipped Obama’s last SOTU address to pray in the Member’s chapel “to raise up a leader whom [God] will use to restore the Soul of America.” “I am honored to have the opportunity to speak at CPAC this year,” said Rep. King. “Barack Obama has run our Constitutional Republic nearly off the rails. We need a president who will lead us in a renewal to restore the Soul of America. We have an opportunity to stand together for the right to life, the Rule of Law, secure our borders and refurbish the pillars of American Exceptionalism. I look forward to joining with Constitutional conservatives at CPAC 2016.” CPAC 2016’s theme, “Our Time is Now,” was inspired from President Ronald Reagan’s 1981 CPAC address where he said: “Our time is now. Our moment has arrived. We stand together shoulder to shoulder in the thickest of the fight.” These state leaders exemplify that philosophy and CPAC 2016 is proud to have them offer their thoughts. CPAC 2016 will be held March 2-5 at the Gaylord Hotel National Resort and Convention Center in National Harbor, Maryland.
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting yes on H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act: “For more than two decades, Congress has developed and passed strong economic sanctions against Iran in response to Iran’s nuclear program, development of ballistic missiles and support for terrorism,” said King. “President Obama has destroyed the Rule of Law by usurping this power from Congress and taking it upon himself to negotiate the Iran Nuclear deal without the oversight or consent of Congress. Now, Congress must work to restore its Article I Constitutional authority and the balance of power by holding the President accountable. In light of the Iran Nuclear Deal, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act, would constrain the President from unilaterally removing sanctions on foreign financial institutions, Iranian individuals and entities with terrorist ties. This bill gives Congress the authority to protect our allies including Israel by ensuring that Hezbollah, Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad are designated as terrorist organizations. It will also help prevent the estimated $150 billion in funds and assets from the Iran Nuclear Deal from funding terrorists. For these reasons, I voted YES on the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act, fulfilling the promise I have made to my constituents to restore Article I Constitutional authority to the United States Congress.”
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting yes on Veto Message H.R. 3762, Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015: “ObamaCare was passed by hook, crook and legislative shenanigan and has been rejected by the American people multiple times,” said King. “Since passage, the President has unilaterally ignored the law to delay mandates, rewrite the bill’s language related to exchanges and move to bailout co-ops and insurance companies without oversight or Congressional input. Now, he has vetoed a bill to partially repeal Obamacare. The President continues to choose to ignore the will of the people, destroying the Rule of Law in the process. For this reason, I supported the Veto Message on Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015. This bill will once again repeal major provisions of Obamacare as well as placing a suspension on federal Medicaid funding for Planned Parenthood. I believe Obamacare should be ripped out by the roots, and this veto message is the next step in that process. I introduced the first ObamaCare Repeal bill in Congress and continue to work every day to eliminate this egregious law. Going into next year we must keep the President accountable by upholding the priorities of the American people and the promises we made to our constituents and the oath we took to uphold the Constitution.”
01.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement to announce who he will be giving his gallery ticket to the 2016 State of the Union address: “President Obama’s first official act, immediately upon his inauguration was to sign an executive order to accelerate abortions world-wide,” said King. “The first tears we have seen him shed in seven years were for the victims of the tragic Sandy Hook School shooting. As far as we know, Obama has never shed a single tear for even one of the more than 9 million babies aborted under his watch. He is the most pro-abortion president ever. Now he has reserved an empty seat next to the First Lady to commemorate ‘the victims of gun violence who no longer have a voice’. The San Bernardino victims’ body temperatures had declined only from 98.6 to 93 degrees F when Obama twisted the ‘Allah Akbar’ screaming bloodlust into an anti-gun, anti-Second Amendment tirade. I am sickened by the acts of war twisted into ‘workplace violence’ and by a president who would veto the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, H.R. 3504 that would protect the lives, at least of those who survived the attempt on their lives, by abortionists. There will be another empty seat in the gallery during Obama’s last State of the Union address. I have reserved it to commemorate the lives of more than 55 million aborted babies, ‘the chorus of voices that have never been heard in this world but are heard beautifully and clearly in the next world.’ My seat on the floor of Congress will also be empty. I will be in the Member’s chapel praying for God to raise up a leader whom he will use to restore the Soul of America.”
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting no on the omnibus spending bill: “I introduced 9 amendments to the omnibus spending bill,” said King. “All of which would have passed if brought to the floor, yet none were made in order. I put these up as a record of what Congress should be doing to restore Article I Constitutional Authority. The American people have been demanding that we defund ObamaCare, executive amnesty, the Supreme Court’s ruling on same-sex marriage, Planned Parenthood, WOTUS, the Iran nuclear deal, the refugee resettlement process, climate change, and strike out any expansion of H-2B visas. Going into next year we need to put the priorities of the American people, the promises we made to our constituents and the Constitution at the forefront of the House’s legislative agenda. I am hopeful we can turn the page and start fresh with a Congress that respects the will of the American people.” Mr. King’s Nine Amendments to the omnibus spending bill: Defund ObamaCare Defund Executive Amnesty Defund the Supreme Court’s Ruling on Same-Sex Marriage Defund Planned Parenthood Defund New WOTUS Defund the Iran Nuclear Deal Defund the Refugee Resettlement Process Defund the Climate Change Agreement Strike the Expansion of H-2B Visas
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting his amendment, striking the expansion of H-2B visas, to the omnibus spending bill: “It is the obligation of Congress to restore its Article I Constitutional authority and the balance of power,” said King. “This omnibus is the best opportunity to support and defend our Constitutional authority. At a time when many Americans are struggling to find a job, Congress is poised to quadruple the number of low-skilled workers that can enter the U.S. under the H-2B visa program to compete with U.S. citizens for jobs. With at least 11 million illegal immigrants already flooding the labor market, the last thing American workers need is 264,000 more workers entering the labor force. Congress should be looking at ways to secure our border and enforce our immigration laws not using a spending bill to substantively change immigration law by radically circumventing the cap of an employment visa. My amendment would eliminate this damaging provision from the bill and provide a very welcome Christmas president to all the unemployed seeking work. This is the ninth of nine amendments I submitted to make the omnibus spending bill a bill that fulfills the promises we all made to our constituents in 2014 and to restore Article I Constitutional authority to the United States Congress.” To view the original amendment text, click here.
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting his amendment, defunding the Climate Change Agreement, to the omnibus spending bill: “It is the obligation of Congress to restore its Article I Constitutional authority and the balance of power,” said King. “This omnibus is the best opportunity to support and defend our Constitutional authority. With blatant disregard for the health of the American economy, and without Congressional approval, President Obama has pledged to support the climate change agreement that was worked out at the COP21 conference in Paris earlier this month. The amendment I offered today will prevent the President from imposing the harsh and arbitrary burdens of this agreement on American families and businesses. If left unchecked, the President will use this agreement to expand federal control over the economy, raise the cost of energy, and stifle an already fragile economy. This is the eighth of nine amendments I submitted to make the omnibus spending bill a bill that fulfills the promises we all made to our constituents in 2014 and to restore Article I Constitutional authority to the United States Congress.” To view the original amendment text, click here.
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting his amendment, defunding the Refugee Resettlement Process, to the omnibus spending bill: “It is the obligation of Congress to restore its Article I Constitutional authority and the balance of power,” said King. “This omnibus is the best opportunity to support and defend our Constitutional authority. How can we trust this Obama Administration who will not utter the words ‘radical Islamic jihad’ to accurately screen refugees coming into the United States? For years we have had thousands of illegal immigrants coming across our boarders falsely claiming refugee status. The safety and security of the American people is paramount which is why my amendment defunds the refugee resettlement process for this fiscal year. This gives Congress time to craft a thoughtful refugee policy to help build a culture in America that honors Americanism. This is the seventh of nine amendments I submitted to make the omnibus spending bill a bill that fulfills the promises we all made to our constituents in 2014 and to restore Article I Constitutional authority to the United States Congress.” To view the amendment text, click here.
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting his amendment, defunding the Iran Nuclear Deal, to the omnibus spending bill: “It is the obligation of Congress to restore its Article I Constitutional authority and the balance of power,” said King. “This omnibus is the best opportunity to support and defend our Constitutional authority. Israel is a strong ally and loyal friend of the United States. When Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu came before Congress earlier this year he made a powerful case to Congress, America and the rest of the world detailing how the Iran Nuclear deal puts Israel’s very survival at stake. The Iran Nuclear deal is one of the most dangerous proposals of our time. It starts the nuclear arms race in the Middle East, restores Iran’s economy, and enables Iran, within 10 years, to become a nuclear power. For these reasons, I submitted an amendment that completely defunds this disastrous deal. This is the sixth of nine amendments I submitted to make the omnibus spending bill a bill that fulfills the promises we all made to our constituents in 2014 and to restore Article I Constitutional authority to the United States Congress.” To view the amendment text, click here.
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting his amendment, defunding Planned Parenthood, to the omnibus spending bill: “It is the obligation of Congress to restore its Article I Constitutional authority and the balance of power,” said King. “This omnibus is the best opportunity to support and defend our Constitutional authority. The gruesome, ghoulish, and ghastly Planned Parenthood practices brought to light by recent videos are more than enough evidence to block all federal tax dollars to Planned Parenthood. My amendment reflects the conscience of the American people and simply says: ‘No funds authorized or appropriated by Federal law may be made available for any purpose to Planned Parenthood… any affiliate or clinic of Planned Parenthood… any successor.’ This is the fourth of nine amendments I submitted to make the omnibus spending bill a bill that fulfills the promises we all made to our constituents in 2014 and to restore Article I Constitutional authority to the United States Congress.” To view the amendment text, click here.
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting his amendment, defunding the enforcement of the Supreme Court’s ruling on Same-Sex Marriage, to the omnibus spending bill: “It is the obligation of Congress to restore its Article I Constitutional authority and the balance of power,” said King. “This omnibus is the best opportunity to support and defend our Constitutional authority. My amendment blocks the Federal government from forcing the states to accept and honor same-sex marriage imposed by judicial fiat. The people, through their elected representatives, should be the ones deciding whether to adopt same-sex marriage. The Supreme Court Justices are the last people on earth who can be allowed to amend our Constitution. This is the third of nine amendments that I submitted to make the omnibus spending bill a bill that fulfills the promises we all made to our constituents in 2014 and restores Article I Constitutional authority to the United States Congress.” To view the original amendment text, click here.
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting his amendment to the omnibus spending bill to defund executive amnesty: “It is the obligition of Congress to restore its Article I Constitutional authority and the balance of power,” said King. “This omnibus is the best opportunity to support and defend our Constitutional authority. My amendment defunds all of the President's illegal and unconstitutional actions regarding immigration. Beginning with the Morton Memos and Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), and covering all of his most recent illegal and unconstitutional acts to expand DACA to 5 million more illegal immigrants. Further, I submitted my language that passed the House floor earlier this year that defunds sanctuary cities. Sanctuary cities shelter criminal aliens that regularly victimize citizens with impunity while being protected by city and state officials. It is time to restore the Rule of Law and put an end to these crimes. This is the second of nine amendments that I submitted to make the Omnibus spending bill a bill that fulfills the promises we all made to our constituents in 2014 and restores Article I Constitutional authority to the United States Congress.” To view the amendment text, click here.
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting his defund ObamaCare implementation amendment to the Omnibus Spending bill: “It is the obligation of Congress to restore its Article I Constitutional authority and the balance of power,” said King. “This Omnibus is the best opportunity to support and defend our Constitutional authority. ObamaCare was passed by hook, crook and legislative shenanigan and has been rejected by the American people multiple times. Since passage, the President has unilaterally ignored the law to delay mandates, rewrite the bill’s language related to exchanges and move to bailout co-ops and insurance companies without oversight or Congressional input. At this point our options are to defund the implementation of ObamaCare until we have the right President who will enforce the will of the American people. This is the first of nine amendments that I submitted to make the Omnibus spending bill a bill that fulfills the promises we all made to our constituents in 2014 and which restores Article I Constitutional authority to Congress.” To view the amendment text, click here.
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting his amendment, defunding the new Waters of the United States rule (WOTUS), to the omnibus spending bill: “It is the obligation of Congress to restore its Article I Constitutional authority and the balance of power,” said King. “This omnibus is the best opportunity to support and defend our Constitutional authority. Just like in every other aspect of the President’s executive overreaches, he did not listen to the American people. Under this new Waters of the United States rule, family farms, small businesses and other landowners would not be safe from burdensome, politically motivated EPA regulations. The courts have already begun to question the legal legitimacy of the EPA’s new WOTUS rule which puts 96.7% of Iowa’s land mass under the EPA’s jurisdiction. Congress should second that motion and defund the rule until the courts ultimately decide it is unconstitutional. This is the fifth of nine amendments I submitted to make the omnibus spending bill a bill that fulfills the promises we all made to our constituents in 2014 and to restore Article I Constitutional authority to the United States Congress.” To view the amendment text, click here.
12.11.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following video statement from his comments on the House Floor speaking in support of the Customs Conference Report. King’s immigration language, agreed upon with Speaker Paul Ryan in June of 2015, was included in the Customs Report adopted by the House today. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. June 10, 2015 – King Reaches Agreement with Ryan on TPA
12.01.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting an amendment to the House Rules Committee for H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act of 2015: “The petroleum industry lobby is working towards a 100% petroleum mandate,” said King. “The Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) is the only tool that provides market access so that ethanol and other renewable fuels are sold in competition with petroleum. Attacking the RFS is forcing Iowa farmers and the ethanol industry out of the competitive market. My amendment to H.R. 8 simply states that, any law that reduces market access or changes the tax structure of one energy industry has to proportionately affect the entire energy sector. By supporting a free and competitive market, it has allowed the innovation of the biofuels sector to lower prices at the pump, create American jobs, and secure America’s domestic energy supply. To view original amendment text, click here.
11.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) unveiled the final volume requirements under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) for 2014 through 2016: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
11.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video from his statements on the House Floor introducing his amendment to H.R. 3189, the Fed Oversight Reform and Modernization Act of 2015. His amendment passed by voice vote. King is grateful for the support of Chairman Hensarling. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
11.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following House Floor statement on his amendment to the Highway Trust Fund, The Davis Bacon Repeal Amendment: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. To view the original amendment text, click here. Outside groups supporting the amendment: Americans for Prosperity Americans for Limited Government Americans for Tax Reform Competitive Enterprise Institute FreedomWorks Heritage Action Associated Builders and Contractors
11.04.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing the “Ending the Sanctuary Capitol Policy Act of 2015:” “The immigration system in the United States has an enforcement problem,” said King. “The lawlessness of the Obama Administration has trickled down to at least 340 local so-called ‘sanctuary’ jurisdictions that openly defy federal law and release dangerous criminals. This lawlessness has even invaded the Capitol grounds where the laws are written. The Capitol Police, a federal law enforcement agency, do not have explicit statutory authority to enforce our immigration laws. Without clear authority they are not investigating the immigration status of protesters openly claiming they are here illegally while disrupting Committee proceedings and shutting down Congressional offices. My bill, ‘Ending the Sanctuary Capitol Policy Act,’ simply empowers a federal law enforcement agency to enforce federal law. The House and Senate cannot call for an end to sanctuary cities while their offices serve as sanctuaries for lawlessness. The Rule of Law rests on reliable enforcement everywhere and Congress needs to take the sanctuary plank out of its own eye.” To view the original bill text, click here. List of original co-sponsors: Barletta, Lou (R-PA-11) Brooks, Mo (R-AL-05) Duncan, Jeff (R-SC-03) Gohmert, Louie (R-TX-01) Gosar, Paul (R-AZ-04) Smith, Lamar (R-TX-21)
10.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H. Res. 500 which states the United States House of Representatives pledged support for the State of Israel in its efforts to maintain its sovereignty. “Israel is a strong ally and loyal friend of the United States,” said King. “When Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu came before Congress earlier this year he made a powerful case to us, America and the rest of the world about how the Iran Nuclear deal puts Israel’s very survival at stake. He said that the people of Israel are finished standing by passively while the threats to their livelihood and country continue. The Iran Nuclear deal is one of the most dangerous deals of our time. It starts the nuclear arms race in the Middle East. For this reason, I am introducing a resolution to express the sense of the House of Representatives that the State of Israel has the right to defend itself against Iranian hostility and that the House of Representatives pledges to support Israel in its efforts to maintain its sovereignty and national security. We, the United States, must stand with Israel every step of the way. I encourage all my colleagues to support this legislation and bring this resolution to the House floor for a vote. A vote for H.Res. 500 is a vote for the support of Israel.” To view the original bill text, click here. List of original co-sponsors: Allen, Rick (GA-12) Barletta, Lou (PA-11) Bishop, Mike (MI-08) Bishop, Rob (UT-01) Burgess, Michael (R-TX) Chaffetz, Jason (UT-03) DesJarlais, Scott (TN-04) Farenthold, Blake (TX 27) Fleischmann, Charles (TN-03) Gibbs, Bob (OH-07) Graves, Tom (GA-14) Hice, Jody (GA-10) Huelskamp, Tim (KS-01) Kelly, Mike (PA-03) LaMalfa, Doug (CA-01) Lamborn, Doug (CA-05) Loudermilk, Barry (GA-11) McClintock, Tom (CA-04) McKinley, David (WV-01) Mulvaney, Mick (SC-05) Murphy, Tim (PA-18) Palmer, Gary (AL-06) Rigell, Scott (VA-02) Roe, David (TN-01) Rouzer, David (NC-07) Russell, Steve (OK-05) Scott, Austin (GA-08) Sessions, Pete (TX-32) Smith, Lamar (TX-21) Stivers, Steve (OH-15) Stutzman, Marlin (IN-03) Walberg, Tim (MI-07) Walker, Mark (NC-06) Weber, Randy (TX 14) Westmoreland, Lynn (GA-03) Wilson, Joe (SC-02) Young, David (IA-03) Zinke, Ryan (MT-At Large)
10.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H.R. 3780, the “Putting Patients and Providers Ahead of Compressed Regulatory Timelines Act of 2015” also known as “The Meaningful Use Act.” “On October 6th, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released final rules for Stage 3 of its meaningful use program for electronic health records (EHRs),” said King. “Although CMS touted the regulations as giving providers increased flexibility, this program remains broken and unsustainable for providers. The significant and ongoing financial cost of compliance is a deal breaker for many providers who simply cannot handle the financial burden and risks associated with EHRs. The demands of this onerous program means fewer dollars for staff and supplies necessary to attend to patients. This unwelcome, ‘unintended’ consequence of this bad law has caused some providers to have to close their businesses altogether. The Administration has chosen to disregard the overwhelming facts that we should not move forward with implementation and done so anyway with the release of the final rules for Stage 3 of the program. The Administration has offered a 60-day comment period, instead of taking the right action of eliminating the harmful penalties associated with this program. My bill would repeal these destructive penalties so that providers can get back to the business they are uniquely trained to do—utilizing their skills and knowledge to heal the sick and support the continued vitality of the healthy. We need to save as many healthcare providers as possible. With the right president and the repeal of ObamaCare, we will need them.” To view the original bill text, click here.
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting four amendments to the Continuing Resolution (CR) in Rules Committee today: “For months Members of the House have been saying we need to stand on principle,” said King. “This is why I have introduced four amendments to the CR in Rules Committee today. My four amendments, simply put, will defund Planned Parenthood, the Iran nuclear deal, the President’s amnesty – DACA and DAPA, and ObamaCare. If each of my amendments were passed we would restore much of our Article I authority in Congress. The American people are expecting leadership from the House of Representatives on the issues they care about the most. If we pass a clean CR we are only, once again, kicking the can down the road. Right now we are situated to actually fight to defund these items – and the American people are pleading with us to do so.” Click the links below to read the original amendment texts: Planned Parenthood Iran Deal Amnesty ObamaCare
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement to express his call for open dialogue and a deliberate process to elect a new Speaker of the House Representatives: “The House of Representatives is now tasked with electing a new Speaker," said King. "This is both a great opportunity and responsibility. Before electing a new Speaker of the House, Members need to hear from all candidates on their strategy for dealing with an obstinate President, vision for restoring the soul of America and ideas on adhering to regular order. To best facilitate an open process, I encourage Members to engage all candidates for Speaker on their proposed strategy and tactics in confronting the many challenges our Conference faces. There is no immediate rush to elect a new Speaker and this provides all of us an opportunity to weigh the decision carefully. I want to know from each candidate how they are going to restore Article I Constitutional authority to Congress and how they plan to defund Planned Parenthood, the Iran deal, the President’s DACA and DAPA, and ObamaCare. Questions like these deserve answers and an open dialogue will help us get them. We need a Speaker who can offer a bold vision that inspires our Conference as well as the American people we represent, and I look forward to a fresh strategy and new beginning.”
09.17.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement to commemorate Constitution Day, marking the 228th year since the signing of the Constitution of the United States of America. King is a member of the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice and always carries a copy of the Constitution in his pocket. “On September 17, 1787, the United States Constitution was completed and signed by 39 of the most influential men in American history,” said King. “I believe that God used these men to lay the framework for our nation, rooted in justice and in liberty. For 228 years, this document has defined our government, secured individual liberty and ensured basic, God-given rights to the American people. As an elected Member of Congress, I have gone before God and other witnesses to pledge my oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States. It is my duty to uphold the laws of the land set in motion by our Founding Fathers. Two hundred and twenty-eight years later, the United States Constitution stands as a model document for other nations. I strongly urge you to become a student of the Constitution, as it distinctly states the rights you possess as an American citizen - rights that cannot be stripped from you. The signing of the United States Constitution was the beginning of what set this great nation apart from the rest of the world. Now more than ever, we must recommit ourselves to the ideals our Founding Fathers used to make America what it was always intended to be.”
09.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement to express his concerns about H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act: “We should not be sending any funds whatsoever to Planned Parenthood,” said King. “H.R. 3134 simply restates current law – the Hyde Amendment. This bill does not defund Planned Parenthood – it reauthorizes Planned Parenthood to perform abortions with federal funds in the cases of rape, incest, and life of the mother. It does not take away any of their other streams of funding from the federal government or reduce federal funding to Planned Parenthood by even one dollar. This bill takes a huge step backwards from the initial conservative position that Planned Parenthood should not be receiving federal funds. The gruesome practices that have been brought to light in the recent Planned Parenthood videos are appalling and have proven that they have no intention to follow current law. That is why I am offering an amendment in House Rules today that simply states what the Conservative Republican position has been for decades and furthermore what the American people are demanding. My amendment says: ‘No funds authorized or appropriated by Federal law may be made available for any purpose to Planned Parenthood… any affiliate or clinic of Planned Parenthood… any successor.’ The funding fight starts now – this is our marker – H.R. 3134 is not a sufficient vote to defund Planned Parenthood. I expect much stronger language than this in the CR coming up in the next few weeks. Innocent, unborn babies deserve more than just a show vote.” To view Mr. King’s amendment, click here.
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H.R. 3251, the End-of-Life Counseling Bill: “On July 8, 2015, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced its plan to pay doctors to counsel patients about end-of-life care, effective January 1, 2016,” said King. “Americans are well-aware of the fact that Medicare is cash-strapped. Allowing the federal government to marry its need to save dollars with the promotion of end-of-life counseling is not in the interest of millions of Americans who were promised life-sustaining care in their older years in exchange for their compelled funding of the program during their working years. An early draft of Obamacare contained the end-of-life counseling provision. Like CMS’ recent announcement, the provision stipulated that CMS would pay doctors for end-of-life counseling. However, the bill went on to prescribe what doctors would have to discuss. In 2009, public outcry led to the provision being removed from the final legislation that ultimately became law in 2010. The worldview behind the policy has not changed since 2009 and government control over this highly personal decision is still intolerable to those who respect the dignity of human life. We need to block this harmful regulation before the Administration imposes yet another life-devaluing policy on the American people. My bill will accomplish this important objective by prohibiting Medicare payments for end-of-life counseling under the coming regulation.” To view the original bill text, click here.
07.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in support of H.R. 3009, the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
07.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement welcoming Israeli Ambassador Ron Dermer to speak at the Conservative Opportunity Society’s (COS) weekly Wednesday breakfast to discuss the Administration’s nuclear deal with Iran. “As our greatest ally in the Middle East, it is important to get Israel’s perspective on the Iran nuclear deal since it has direct implications on their security interests,” said King. “The Members of the Conservative Opportunity Society look forward to hearing from Ambassador Dermer on this agreement as Congress prepares to consider a legislative response.” Who: Congressman Steve King, Chairman Members of the Conservative Opportunity Society What: Conservative Opportunity Society Weekly Wednesday Morning Breakfast When: Wednesday, July 22, 2015 at 8:00AM ET Where: Capitol Hill Club This is a Members only, off the record, closed door meeting.
07.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement with his response to the Obama Administration’s Iran nuclear deal announced this morning: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
07.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing the House Resolution of disapproving the Supreme Court’s opinion legalizing same-sex marriage: “The traditional definition of marriage is a union between one man and one woman,” said King. “In a blatant act of judicial activism, the Supreme Court perverted the word ‘marriage’ to create an unconstitutional right to same-sex marriage. Five unelected judges imposed their personal will on the States and the American people by overturning at least thirty states whose constitutions define marriage as a union between one man and one woman. It is time for Congress to speak out against this Constitutionally baseless decision. That is why I have introduced a resolution of disapproval to ensure the American people know that the House of Representatives strongly opposes the majority opinion in Obergefell v. Hodges. This resolution expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that: the traditional definition of marriage is a union between one man and one woman; the majority opinion unconstitutionally and indefensibly perverts the definition of marriage; the States may refuse to be bound by the holding in Obergefell v. Hodges; the States are not required to license same-sex marriage or recognize same-sex marriages performed in other states; and individuals, businesses, churches, religious groups, and other faith-based organizations are encouraged, empowered, and protected to exercise their faith without fear of legal or government interference. I urge my colleagues in the House to support this resolution and support traditional, one man and one woman marriage.” To view the original bill text, click here.
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressmen Steve King (R-IA) and Pete Sessions (R-TX) today released the following statement regarding their recent letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting an update to King’s 2005 and 2011 studies on crimes committed by criminal aliens: “President Obama’s refusal to enforce our country’s immigration laws has come at a high cost to our security, economy, and the livelihood of American citizens. Just this past week, an innocent American was murdered in San Francisco by a criminal alien who had been deported five times. At what point will we say ‘enough is enough’? At what point will this Administration understand that by throwing law and civility to the wayside they are compromising the safety of American families and communities? “To adequately address this problem, it is critical that we understand the full extent of this issue. For that reason we have requested that the Government Accountability Office update its 2011 study on criminal aliens. In that year, the Government Accountability Office published a report that analyzed the number of criminal aliens arrested and convicted, the specific crimes they committed, and the total cost associated with their incarcerations. We believe an update to this study will provide further certifiable evidence to hold the Administration accountable for their lawless actions and emphasize the necessity to enforce our nation’s Rule of Law and secure our porous borders."
06.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling on the gay marriage case, Obergefell v. Hodges: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling on King v. Burwell: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following video statement after voting in favor of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA): To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing H.R. 2812, the Tax Free Health Insurance Act, which would eliminate taxes on health insurance for those in the individual market: “With decision of King v. Burwell expected by the end of June, there is widespread agreement that Americans deserve policies that will offer healthcare solutions, not temporary fixes that will cause even more financial distress for consumers,” said King. “That is why I introduced the ObamaCare Repeal Act when the House convened in January, and that is why I have introduced the Tax Free Health Insurance Act today. This important legislation would make every health insurance policy fully tax deductible. In 2012, there were 20.9 million insured Americans who were compelled to pay their premiums with after tax dollars. This includes small business owners who own an LLC, LP, Sole Proprietorship or S-Corps that can deduct their employees’ health insurance, but are unable to deduct their own premiums. ObamaCare now commands them to buy an even more expensive policy but denies the premium expense as a deduction. My bill fixes this inequity in the tax code and ensures that all people, no matter their tax situation, can deduct their health insurance premiums. The economic impact of the Tax Free Health Insurance Act will place extra dollars back into the pockets of taxpayers, especially small businesses. If enacted into law, the Tax Free Health Insurance Act would stand as good policy before and after the repeal of ObamaCare.” To view the original bill text, click here. List of the original co-sponsors: Babin, Brian (TX-36) Blackburn, Marsha (TN-7) Brooks, Mo (AL-5) Burgess, Michael (TX-26) Carter, Buddy (GA-1) Cole, Tom (OK-4) DesJarlais, Scott (TN-4) Duncan, Jeff (SC-3) Fleming, John (LA-4) Franks, Trent (AZ-8) Gibbs, Bob (OH-7) Gohmert, Louie (TX-1) Huelskamp, Tim (KS-1) Hultgren, Randy (IL-14) Issa, Darrell (CA-49) LaMalfa, Doug (CA-1) Pittenger, Robert (NC-9) Ribble, Reid (WI-8) Rouzer, David (NC-7) Weber, Randy (TX-14) Wilson, Joe (SC-2) Yoho, Ted (FL-3)
06.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H.R. 2777, the Social Security Integrity Act of 2015: “Current reports show that the Social Security Administration (SSA) has an estimated 6.5 million people over the age of 112 with active Social Security Numbers,” said King. “However as of the Fall of 2014, only 42 people are known to have ever reached that age. This shows the fraud and misuse of Social Security Numbers in our country. My Social Security Integrity Act directs the Commissioner of Social Security to implement certain record keeping recommendations which force the SSA to clean up their records and closes the avenue of fraudulent social security numbers. Numerous federal benefit-paying entities, the Department of Homeland Security, the Internal Revenue Service, state and local government entities, and private industry customers also rely on the accuracy of completeness of the SSA’s death information to detect unreported deaths and prevent fraud. Taxpayers deserve the assurance that the actions necessary to uphold the integrity in the payment of federal benefits is maintained. My bill stops fraudulent payments and enforces more transparency within the Social Security Administration. This bill lays the foundation for even more effective Congressional action.” To view the original bill text, click here.
06.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing H.R. 2778, the Sunset Act: “The role of Congress is to make the law, not create onerous red tape for entrepreneurs and businesses,” said King. “Americans must be able to hold their elected officials accountable for the rules and regulations that the federal government imposes upon them, and the Sunset Act will do just that. My bill would require Congress to take an up or down vote on all new rules and regulations put forth by federal departments and agencies, recognizing that even rules that aren't intended to have substantial economic impacts can have an outsized affect on small business and job creators. This legislation would also require that all current regulations be sunsetted and voted on by Congress for renewal. The Sunset Act will help ensure that rule and regulations churned out by Washington bureaucrats are necessary and helpful, not burdensome and problematic.” To view the original bill text, click here.
06.15.2015	The entire Iowa delegation today pressed the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to host a public hearing in Iowa on the proposed Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) Renewable Volume Obligations (RVOs). The EPA's long delay in issuing RVOs for 2014, 2015, and 2016, and its decision to deviate from the levels set by Congress has created uncertainty for the biofuels industry and stifled investment. Iowa produced nearly 3.8 billion gallons of clean burning ethanol and 230 million gallons of biodiesel in 2013, but instead of recognizing the importance of Iowa's role as a renewable fuel leader, the EPA uses flawed justification to defend these proposed levels, especially related to ethanol. This hurts producers and consumers in Iowa, and all across the country. "Unfortunately, despite having 18 months to listen to stakeholders and consider comments, the EPA's proposed RVOs fall short. Thus, we strongly encourage you to add a public hearing in Iowa that would enable EPA officials to hear from Iowans who work in and contribute to the biofuels industry," the Members of Congress wrote. "Iowa industry leaders, farmers, retailers and consumers are well positioned to provide valuable information and substantive feedback on how the proposed RVOs will negatively impact the agricultural and biofuels industries, consumer choice at the pump, and future investments in 2nd generation renewable fuels and infrastructure." The Members of Congress hope the EPA will take this request seriously, as it should fully understand the implications of its rulemaking. A copy of the letter can be found here.
06.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H.R. 2720 , the Sunshine in Academic Admissions Act. This bill requires institutions of higher education to report annually on the use of race, color, or national origin in the admissions process. “Citizens and taxpayers have a right to know whether federally funded institutions of higher education are treating student applications differently depending on the student’s race, color, or national origin,” said King. “Further, they need to know the way in which these factors are weighted and the consequences it will have to students. My legislation would require federally funded institutions of higher education to make public through annual reports their use of race, color, and national origin, so that federal and state enforcement agencies and interested persons can monitor the schools. Further, it gives students opportunities based on their own merits alone, not race, color or national origin and guarantees equal opportunity for all rather than special privileges for some. My bill instills transparency into the academic admissions process of our nation’s colleges and universities. I encourage my colleagues in the House to support this bill.” To view the original text, click here.
06.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video excerpt of him speaking on the House Floor in support of H.R. 2393, the Country of Origin Labeling Amendments Act (COOL) which passed the House today: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
06.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after reaching an agreement with Chairman Paul Ryan to include Mr. King’s language in Trade Promotion Authority (TPA): “I am glad to have worked with Chairman Paul Ryan on my added language to Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). My limitation language says: ‘To ensure that trade agreements do not require changes to the immigration laws of the United States or obligate the United States to grant access or expand access to visas issued under 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15),’ said King.” My amendment that passed inCJS appropriations states:, ‘None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to negotiate or finalize a trade agreement that includes provisions relating to visas issued under section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)).’ This amendment is the foundation of my language that will be enrolled with TPA. My language tells the executive branch that they cannot negotiate changes in our immigration laws or use visa programs as a negotiating tool. Further, my language keeps immigration out of all future trade agreements negotiated under TPA. I am confident this has improved TPA and it gets me to a yes on the final bill.” Mr. King and Chairman Ryan exchanged letters on the final agreement: To view the King letter, click here. To view the Ryan letter, click here.
06.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H.R. 2701, legislation that punishes the People's Republic of China for its failure to protect the holders of United States intellectual property rights. “My bill directs the President to impose duties on merchandise from China in an amount equivalent to the estimated annual loss of revenue to holders of U.S. intellectual property rights as a result of violations of such intellectual property rights in China,” said King. “The revenue raised by the imposition of duties on Chinese merchandise will be proportionally distributed to provide compensation to holders of United States intellectual property rights. The creative genius of Americans, protected by our copyrights, trademarks and patents, is systematically being pirated by the Chinese whose government appears to be complicit. China is responsible for an estimated 50-80% of international IP theft with an estimated annual loss of over $300 billion to the U.S. economy alone. My bill would allow for better protection of IP which would encourage significantly more research and development investment and economic growth. My bill helps the U.S. economy, creates more jobs and protects the work products of hard working Americans.” To view the bill text, click here.
06.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video excerpts of him offering three amendments to H.R. 2578, FY16 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Act. H.R. 2578 passed the House today along with all three of the King amendments. King Amendment No. 1 To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, click here. King Amendment No. 2 To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, click here. King Amendment No. 3 To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, click here.
06.01.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement to announce that the longstanding House Republican Conference Member’s group called the Conservative Opportunity Society (COS) has formalized into an official organization and hired Chris Stevens as the Executive Director. Congressman King has been the Chairman of COS for over a decade. COS has been a weekly House Republican Member’s breakfast every Wednesday morning that Congress is in session. “When COS was first formed by Newt Gingrich and others in 1983, now over 30 years ago, it was done so to promote conservative ideas. COS was formed in the same kind of climate that exists today – a dissatisfaction about Washington from the American people and the direction of the Republican Party. COS is a group of Republican Members who are committed to representing the conservative agenda in the House of Representatives and throughout the U.S. The mission of COS is to be the full-spectrum, Constitutional, conservative conscience of the House that advances policies based on our country's founding principles: the Rule of Law, limited government, a strong national defense and strong family values. COS will continue to restore the pillars of American Exceptionalism and get back to the ideals and principles of our Founding Fathers. COS has hired an Executive Director, Chris Stevens, who is an attorney with a Constitutional conservative background and has several years’ experience on the Hill as Legislative Counsel. His job will entail facilitating a coordinated effort within COS to work toward conservative legislative goals and take advantage of his exceptional network both on and off the Hill.”
05.29.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following comments after the release of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed Renewable Volume Obligations (RVOs). "The RFS is the only tool that provides market access so that ethanol and other renewable fuels are sold in competition with petroleum,” said King. “The Consumer Choice Provision was enacted by Congress and sets the framework for RFS targets in law. The EPA, in another example of executive overreach, rolled back the RFS targets, presumably because of short grain supplies and high grain prices. We have harvested the largest corn crop ever and seen prices cut in more than half. Also, the devastation of the avian influenza, especially in my district, has at least temporarily reduced the demand for corn. Remember, this is only a proposed rule. The EPA needs to follow the law and restore the RFS targets according to the directive of Congress."
05.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement after voting in favor of H.R. 1191, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
05.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting against H.R. 2048, the USA FREEDOM Act. “I voted against H.R. 2048, the USA FREEDOM Act, because it does not strike the right balance between privacy and security,” said King. “ISIS just attacked Americans in Texas on May 3, 2015. Five days later, FBI Director James Comey sounded the alarm claiming hundreds and maybe thousands of people across the country are under the sway of the brutal terrorist group. Any overhaul of our surveillance apparatus must include proper consideration of how to maintain access to the valuable data our intelligence community requires to investigate and preempt terrorist attacks. Unfortunately, the national security component of this important debate has been clouded by the good faith concern for privacy. People are right to be concerned about the bulk collection of data by the government and this bill ends that program. I too share this concern about government surveillance of our private lives and therefore support the intent of this bill. However, there has been little discussion of the investigative value of that data. To remedy that, I offered an amendment in the Judiciary Committee that would allow the intelligence community to voluntarily contract with those companies to compensate them to hold the data for a period of time. My amendment struck the right balance between privacy and security while also not creating any mandate on private industry. This was rejected and without such a safeguard, our national security is at the mercy of private companies that have no obligation to maintain, store and protect the data we need to stop terrorist attacks. Congress has a duty to protect both privacy and our Nation. With careful consideration I am confident we can do both, but the USA FREEDOM Act focuses on ending bulk data collection with no solution for protection of the vital data we need for national security. Going forward it is crucial that Congress concentrate on how to make us safer in light of this data disarmament.”
05.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after Governor Terry Branstad joined by Secretary of Agriculture Bill Northey and Iowa Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management Director Mark Schouten announced Iowa to be in a state of emergency due to the recent avian influenza H5N2 outbreak. “The avian bird flu has drastically affected the 4th District of Iowa with the loss of 15 million birds,” said King. “All but one of the reported incidences in Iowa are in my district – the number one egg producing district in America. I have personally been on site to see firsthand the damage done to our poultry producers and continue to be on daily conference calls with officials to figure out how we can best combat this outbreak. I encourage everyone to take this situation very seriously and use the necessary and recommend precautions. Although available federal resources appear to be adequate even for the massive scope of this disaster, I have been pushing hard every day for more and better methods for disposal and cleanup. If we are to save and rebuild a very important Iowa industry, there remains two very big questions. How is it spread and under what conditions? How can we prevent this from happening again? This disease has spread quickly, however there is no known event that H5N2 has ever mutated into a version that could affect humans. I am glad to see that Governor Branstad declared a state of emergency in Iowa today. We will do whatever it takes to help contain this disease and allow our producers to get back on their feet again.”
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee accepted an amnesty amendment during the markup of H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act ( NDAA): “I was disappointed to see that the House Armed Services Committee accepted an amnesty amendment during markup of H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA),” said King. “The amendment encourages the Secretary of Defense to find ways to enlist illegal immigrants granted amnesty under the President’s illegal and unconstitutional Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) into the armed services. This policy would provide a fast track to citizenship for those accepted into a program Congress has voted to defund three times. The House of Representatives first voted to defund DACA with my amendment on June 5, 2013. That vote was followed by two more defund votes in August 2014 and January 2015. It is incomprehensible that any House Committee would encourage using DACA to expand the President’s amnesty agenda further. It is even more disappointing as the NDAA is a bill designed to keep this nation safe from its enemies at a time of war, not about granting citizenship to illegal immigrants. It is the wrong policy on the wrong bill at the worst time. This will bring about a major fight among those of us who have given our oath to support and defend the Constitution and mean it and those who simply gave their oath. This is a dark day both for those that defend the Rule of Law and those that seek to keep the United States safe.”
04.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing his bill “Restrain the Judges on Marriage Act of 2015.” This bill strips federal courts of jurisdiction to hear cases related to marriage. The effect of the bill would prevent federal courts from hearing marriage cases, leaving the issue to the States where it properly belongs. “For too long, federal courts have overstepped their constitutionally limited duty to interpret the Constitution.” Said King. “Rather, federal courts have perverted the Constitution to make law and create constitutional rights to things such as privacy, birth control, and abortion. These unenumerated, so-called constitutionally-protected rights were not envisioned by our Founding Fathers. My bill strips Article III courts of jurisdiction, and the Supreme Court of appellate jurisdiction, ‘to hear or decide any question pertaining to the interpretation of, or the validity under the Constitution of, any type of marriage.’ Second, my bill provides that ‘[n]o federal funds may be used for any litigation in, or enforcement of any order or judgment by, any court created by an Act of Congress.’ I urge the House to bring this bill to the Floor. If passed, my bill would stop the Court from destroying traditional marriage and preserve the votes of millions of voters in States that have passed bans on same-sex marriage.” To view the bill text, click here.
04.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the confirmed presence of highly pathogenic H5N2 avian influenza (HPAI) at a commercial laying facility in Osceola County, Iowa. This is the second confirmed case in the state. The Center for Disease Control (CDC) and Iowa Department of Public Health considers the risk to people from these HPAI H5 infections in wild birds, backyard flocks and commercial poultry, to be low. No human infections with the virus have ever been detected. “We have a serious outbreak of avian influenza H5N2,” said King. “I am glad to see that the Iowa Department of Agriculture and the Iowa Department of Ag and Land Stewardship and the USDA are responding immediately and doing the things necessary to contain this disease. Iowa was the last state to break with this avian bird flu. It is serious especially from a financial stand point; however, fortunately this does not put human beings at risk. We are monitoring the situation and speaking directly to Secretary Bill Northey on these issues and we stand prepared to help in any way that we can. We will get this contained – it is a matter of time – and hopefully we can end it here.” To view the Iowa Department of Agriculture’s press release click here.
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement regarding Tax Day today: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. “Let’s make today just another day under the FairTax and abolish the IRS.”
04.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing H.R. 1746, the Truth in Employment Act of 2015. The legislation would protect employees and employers from harassment and disruptive actions by union “salts” who threaten jobs and business success. “Every day, non-union businesses across America are targeted in various ways by Big Labor, and current law makes companies largely powerless to combat these attacks,” said King. “The Truth in Employment Act protects the integrity of the American workplace by ending the harmful labor practice known as ‘salting.’ ‘Salting’ is when professional union organizers and agents seek employment at competing non-union companies for the sole purpose of unionizing the company or to drum up frivolous accusations of ‘unfair labor practices.’ Eliminating this practice would protect American employers and employees and keep our small businesses thriving.” "Salting" is a technique in which labor unions send professional union organizers out into the field to apply for jobs within a non-union firm. Once employed, the "salt" uses his position primarily to organize his fellow employees, to inflict non-union competitors with economic harm, or to achieve both ends. The "salt's" primary motivation for employment is not to work on behalf of his employer, but to further the goals of the labor unions. Often, the "salt's" activities give rise to frivolous lawsuits which the employing business must spend thousands of dollars defending.
04.01.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the White House announced they would be withdrawing a U.S. hold on the annual aid package to Egypt. The hold has been in place since October 2013. “I am glad that President Obama finally decided to withdraw the hold on the military aid package to Egypt,” said King. “However, it needed to be sooner. There is still more aid to be delivered such as the much needed parts for the Apache helicopters to fight radical Islamic terrorists in the Sinai. This administration has been very slow in letting go of its support for the Muslim Brotherhood led former regime. Because of the delay they have opened the door for the Russians to sell the Egyptians $3.2 billion in military hardware and for the French who sold them $5.6 billion in two dozen Rafale fighter jets. That’s the effect of this feckless foreign policy that we have in our current administration. However, I am glad to see the progress that is now being made.”
03.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting NO on H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act: To view Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. “Today is the day that the United States House of Representatives has finally decided to fix the doc fix,” said King. “The doc fix is known as the SGR – the sustainable growth rate and that’s the rate that doctors and healthcare providers compensate for their services under Medicare. This is about a $210 to $213 billion dollar cost over 10 years. I have long argued that we need to solve this problem rather than do the doc patch, which is a band aid that we have been doing over years. This one addresses it for the full scope of a decade. Normally I would be for such a proposal because I expected that when we had a Republican majority in the House and in the Senate that we would find offsets and savings elsewhere in government so that we could pay for this very expensive doc fix – which I believe the doctors deserve. In the end we are at $210-213 billion in expenditures with only $70 billion worth of offsets. I believe in a balanced budget amendment to the United States Constitution and fiscal responsibility – that’s the promise that I made before I was elected to this job. I’m going to continue to push for a balanced budget and I want to preserve the argument that we can find offsets and we can get to balance. If we sacrifice the argument we will always be in deficit spending and we will see this $18 trillion of the national debt go up clear through the roof. This is why I voted no on the doc fix today, and not because I don’t want to help the doctors.”
03.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing the “No Hungry Kids Act,” H.R. 1363. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has released new standards that have left children across the nation hungry during the school day because of calorie rationing. The "No Hungry Kids Act" repeals this USDA rule that created the new standards, prohibits the USDA's upper caloric limits, and protects the rights of parents to send their children to school with the foods of their choice. “Spring is here - it’s that time of year again where kids are outside exercising and playing, but also studying and learning,” said King. “I have re-introduced the ‘No Hungry Kids Act’ to help our students be the best they can be. The USDA has set a calorie limit on school lunches. The goal of the school lunch program was – and is – to ensure students receive enough nutrition to be healthy and to learn. The misguided nanny state, as advanced by Michelle Obama's ‘Healthy and Hunger Free Kids Act,’ was interpreted by Secretary Vilsack to be a directive that, because some kids are overweight, he would put every child on a diet. Parents know that their kids deserve all of the healthy and nutritious food they want. My 'No Hungry Kids Act' prohibits the USDA from rationing calories to our children, so schools can serve our students as much nutritious food as they want, so that our students can grow and learn and excel, in school and out of school – in the classroom and on the playing field.”
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting against a bill that funds the Department of Homeland Security for Fiscal Year 2015 and Obama’s illegal, unconstitutional actions on immigration. The bill, H.R. 240, passed by a vote of 257 to 167. “Today the will of the American people was ignored,” said King. “And Republicans in the House overwhelmingly rejected this legislation 2:1. Further our Constitution, that we all took an oath to support and defend, was eviscerated. The fish trap that Republicans have been swimming further and further into finally trapped them today. The White House is having a fish fry.”
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement in response to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel’s speech before the joint session of Congress: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
03.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing his resolution to the appropriations bill funding the Department of Homeland Security for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015. “House Democrats voted last week for the one-week DHS funding bill because they knew they would have the power to call up the DHS amnesty funding bill for a vote this week,” said King. “They are poised to take control of the floor and fund executive amnesty. A House Resolution can stop it, if we amend Rule XXII. Clause 4 of Rule XXII of the House Rules provides privilege to a motion to dispose of any amendments ‘when the stage of disagreement has been reached on a bill or resolution’ as soon as the Senate formally disagrees. The DHS appropriations bill reached the stage of disagreement in the House last Friday. The Senate is poised to act tonight. From that moment, Nancy Pelosi or any Member of the majority or the minority can make a privileged motion to fund executive amnesty through September 2015. Under the Constitution, both chambers of Congress make their own rules. The House can change its rules by simple majority and has a duty to do so to protect the Constitution. It is our urgent obligation to immediately amend or suspend Clause 4 of Rule XXII. The precedent for this is still fresh. Rules preemption was exactly the tactic used by our Leadership to prevent a similar privileged motion on the first day, in the first hour (1:00am) of the shutdown, Oct 1, 2013. If Republicans are serious about defending the Constitution and defunding the President’s amnesty, a similar resolution must be passed this week before Democrats can act. Republicans were elected on a promise to stop Obama's unconstitutional amnesty. A single clause in a rule we have the power to change is not an excuse to fund lawlessness. This is only a trap if we fail to act. Leadership’s back is not against the wall unless they choose it to be. This is why I have drafted a resolution that will amend the Rule so that only the Majority Leader or his designee can offer the privileged resolution on the DHS bill. I urge my colleagues to join me in this fight for upholding and restoring the Constitution. The time to fight is now.” To view the full text of the resolution, click here.
02.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in reaction to Texas Federal Judge Andrew Hanen’s order granting a temporary injunction halting President Obama’s illegal and unconstitutional, executive actions on amnesty. “Judge Hanen’s order, that came down yesterday, essentially says that President Obama is operating lawlessly in regards to his executive amnesty actions,” said King.“Further, the President doesn’t have the legal authority to waive the law or the legal authority to grant work permits to people he decided to waive the law for illegal aliens. This is definitely a victory that changes the dynamics of the debate in the United States Senate today, and its also one that starts us down the path where we could eventually shut off all the President’s lawlessness. I was the first advocate for defunding and blocking the President’s amnesty since 2011 with the Morten Memos. This order from yesterday is a judicial vindication of the positions I have long held on the President’s actions on immigration. This is a significant step forward, but only a temporary halt against the President’s actions. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to do their constitutional duty and vote to cut off all funds for Obama’s illegal and unconstitutional, executive amnesty actions.”
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing the Davis-Bacon Repeal Act: “As a small business owner for 28 years, I saw firsthand the damaging effects Davis-Bacon prevailing wage rates have on federal public works projects,” said King. “Throughout my years in the construction industry I have paid Davis-Bacon wages, and I have been paid Davis-Bacon wages. The Davis-Bacon Act is a Depression-era wage law. It requires that each federal, public works contract, $2,000 and above, contains a clause setting the minimum wages to be paid to the workers employed to complete the project. Any contractors or subcontractors who participate in the project must pay their workers this ‘prevailing wage.’ In most cases, Davis-Bacon wages are federal government mandated union scale wages, not a true ‘prevailing wage.’ Davis-Bacon artificially inflates the cost of federal contracts and restricts the ability of small businesses to compete for these contracts. My Davis-Bacon Repeal Act eliminates the federally mandated union pay scale under federal, public works contracts. Every dollar that American taxpayers send to Washington must be used as efficiently as possible, and every business – small or large, union or non-union – should have the ability to compete freely for federal construction projects. Davis-Bacon is bad for taxpayers and it is bad for small businesses and bad for workers needing a job. Repealing this outdated law would be a big step towards ensuring taxpayer dollars are being used wisely and efficiently.”
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing H.R. 997, the English Language Unity Act: "There is no more unifying force in the world than a common form of communications currency," said King. "Every sovereign nation sate, including the Vatican, has at a minimum, an official language. It is essential that we make assimilation of our legal immigrants a top priority and learning English is an important first step in that process. My English Language Unity Act provides consistency among Americans by requiring all official functions of the United States to be conducted in English, establishes a uniform language requirement for naturalization and places an obligation on representatives of the federal government to encourage individuals to learn English. We are a nation strengthened by assimilation, and it is important we share one vision and one official language. English as the official language of our nation ensures as a Nation we are bound together and all have the ability to achieve the American dream."
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H.R. 917, the Sunshine in the Courtroom Act. The legislation allows judges at all federal court levels to open their courtrooms to television cameras and radio broadcasts. “From the founding of our nation we have opened up the machinery of government to the public,” said King. “The people pay for the operations of government and their lives are directly affected by the decisions made by their leaders. That is why I have re-introduced the Sunshine in the Courtroom Act which allows for the much needed transparency of the decisions made in the federal judiciary every day that affect all of our lives. My bill also allows for a stellar education process for students studying law and for the general American people. My bill would allow presiding judges in appellate courts, including the Supreme Court, to permit electronic recording and broadcasting to the public of any court proceeding over which the judge presides. However, if the judge finds that the recording would constitute a violation of the due process rights of a party it would not be allowed. Cameras make for a more open and transparent government along with a more educated public. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make this a reality for the American people.”
02.12.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H.R. 899, the Religious Worker Visa Reciprocity Act: “In 1990 Congress created the R-1 nonimmigrant visa for religious workers,” said King. “This was created to help religious workers like priests, ministers, monks, nuns and other religious workers to come to the U.S. for up to three years to work for religious organizations. What started at a moderate growth rate for admissions has now skyrocketed. The most infamous of these acceptances was Sheik Omar Abdul-Rahman, the mastermind of the first World Trade Center bombing. The United States has the most generous immigration policy in the world. However, the generosity is being repaid with fraud and abuse. This is a sensible opportunity to narrow the R-1 visa and make a stand for religious freedom. All U.S. religious workers should have the same access to a foreign country as that country’s religious workers have to the U.S. This is a sensible solution that both limits waste, fraud and abuse by lowering the number of considered petitions and promoting religious freedom.”
02.10.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing his New IDEA Act, the Illegal Deduction Elimination Act: “I believe we must shut off the job magnets that encourage illegal immigrants to come to the United States,” said King. “I have authored New IDEA, the Illegal Deduction Elimination Act, which would protect American jobs for American workers. New IDEA would make wages and benefits paid to illegal workers nondeductible for federal tax purposes. For example, a $10-per-hour wage for an illegal employee would cost the employer $16-per-hour without deductions plus penalty and interest. This would dramatically reduce the cheap labor incentive of hiring illegal workers. New IDEA would also make E-Verify permanent and provide ‘safe harbor’ for employers who use this employment eligibility system. My legislation would also create an information-sharing system between the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of Homeland Security and the Social Security Administration. By using an automated system to verify employment authorization, and by sharing this information amongst three federal agencies, false identification documents and illegal workers will be identified more easily and the agencies of government would be required to coordinate and cooperate with each other.”
02.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of his full, 100% repeal ObamaCare language within, H.R. 596: To view Congressman King’s full remarks, click here.
02.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing the Protect Interstate Commerce Act (PICA). Last Congress, PICA was adopted by voice vote in the House Agriculture Committee to be included in the 2014 Farm Bill. “Open and unrestricted commerce between the states is a vital component for a thriving economy,” said King. “The Constitution gives Congress the power to ‘regulate commerce among the several states’. The Constitution explicitly grants Congress the authority to regulate trade. My legislation would prevent states from enacting laws that would prohibit trade of an agricultural product from other states based on its means of production. On January 1, 2015 California began a state-wide ban on the sale of eggs based on the facilities in which the hens live. Just within the last month in anticipation of the new law coming into effect, California experienced a 79% increase in egg prices. Outside of California, the Midwest has seen a 35% increase since January 2014 in anticipation of these new requirements. If my legislation is enacted, it would not affect the fact that eggs are already regulated by the Federal Egg Inspection Act, and my legislation would allow their sale even if they aren't produced by a specific state's standards. This issue goes far beyond the California egg issue. Restricting interstate trade would create a great deal of confusion and increased costs to manufacturers. This would create a patchwork quilt of conflicting state regulations erected for trade protectionism reasons. My legislation would not prevent a state from implementing its own labeling policies on products. Additionally, states would still be able to set standards of production within their own borders. Preventing the sale of a product based on its means of production prohibits the consumer from choosing to purchase the products they want. My legislation will allow consumers to make their own choices about the products they buy, without the government interfering in that choice. It is important that no state imposes any regulation on another state that would directly violate the Commerce Clause of the Constitution, and this bill preserves the rights of states to regulate the production of agriculture products within their own state. I am grateful for the bipartisan support my bill has received, and urge this Congress to bring it to the Floor for a vote.” To view the original bill text, click here.
02.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to his full, 100% repeal of ObamaCare language, within H.R. 596, being brought to the United States House Floor for a vote today: “The first order of business on the morning after ObamaCare passed into law, March 24, 2010, I drafted and then introduced the full, 100% repeal of ObamaCare,” said King. “Since then, I have consistently reintroduced the same magic 40 word repeal bill. My repeal language has passed the House several times. I’m grateful that Speaker Boehner has decided to include my repeal bill, H.R. 132, as the core of H.R. 596 which will be voted on in the House today. Every Member of Congress, House and Senate, deserves a chance to go on record in favor of my full, 100% rip it out by the roots, ‘As if such Act had not been enacted,’ repeal of ObamaCare.”
01.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing the National Right to Work Act, in the 114th Congress. The bill would repeal the provisions in federal law that make "forced dues" the default labor law of the country. “Every American and their employer should have the power to negotiate the terms of their employment, and no American should be forced to pay union dues just to get or keep a job,” said King. “However, when Congress enacted the National Labor Relations Act in 1935, it established the concept of ‘monopoly bargaining,’ which forces workers who want nothing to do with a union into paying union dues and abiding by the union’s rules and contracts. As early as 1947, Congress tacitly admitted that this violates the rights of workers. Therefore, even while making ‘forced unionization’ the default, they allowed states to ‘opt-out’ if they passed Right to Work laws. Twenty-four states have now done so, and have been able to mitigate the negative effects of misguided federal labor law on their citizens and their economy. However, the fact remains that Congress created this problem in the first place by making forced unionization the default position for all states. Since Congress created this problem, it is Congress’s responsibility to correct it. The National Right to Work Act does so by simply erasing the forced-dues clauses in federal statute -- without adding a single letter to federal law.” To view the full bill text, click here. List of Original Cosponsors: Barr, Andy [KY-6] Barton, Joe [TX-6] Black, Diane [TN-6] Blackburn, Marsha [TN-7] Bishop, Rob [UT-1] Blum, Rod [IA-1] Brat, Dave [VA-7] Brooks, Mo [AL-5] Buck, Ken [CO-4] Bucshon, Larry [IN-8] Clawson, Curt [FL-19] Collins, Doug [GA-09] Comstock, Barbara [VA-10] Conaway, Michael [TX-11] Crawford, Rick [AR-1] Cramer, Kevin [ND-AL] Culberson, John [TX-07] DesJarlais, Scott [TN-4] Duncan, Jeff [SC-3] Duncan, John [TN-2] Fincher, Stephen [TN-08] Fleischmann, Chuck [TN-3] Foxx, Virginia [NC-5] Franks, Trent [AZ-8] Gibbs, Bob [OH-7] Gohmert, Louie [TX-1] Goodlatte, Bob [VA-6] Gosar, Paul [AZ-4] Graves, Tom [GA-14] Griffith, Morgan [VA-9] Harper, Gregg [MS-3] Hartzler, Vicky [MO-4] Hudson, Richard [NC -8] Huizenga, Bill [MI-2] Huelskamp, Tim [KS-1] Jenkins, Lynn [KS-2] Jolly, David [FL-13] Jordan, Jim [OH-4] Johnson, Sam [TX-3] LaMalfa, Doug [CA-1] Lamborn, Doug [CO-5] Long, Billy [MO-7] Loudermilk, Barry [GA-11] Lummis, Cynthia [WY-AL] Marchant, Kenny [TX-24] Massie, Thomas [KY-4] McHenry, Patrick [NC-10] McClintock, Tom [CA-4] Meadows, Mark [NC-11] Moolenaar, John [MI-4} Mullin, Markwayne [OK-2] Mulvaney, Mick [SC-5] Nunnelee, Alan [MS-1] Nugent, Richard [FL-11] Palmer, Gary [AL-06] Palazzo, Steven [MS-4] Perry, Scott [PA-4] Pearce, Steve [NM-2] Pittenger, Robert [NC-9] Pitts, Joseph [PA-16] Pompeo, Mike [KS-4] Ratcliffe, John [TX-4] Roby, Martha [AL-2] Rooney, Thomas [FL-17] Salmon, Matt [AZ-5] Schweikert, David [AZ-6] Scott, Austin [GA-8] Sessions, Pete [TX-32] Smith, Adrian [NE-3] Tipton, Scott [CO-3] Weber, Randy [TX-14] Westmoreland, Lynn [GA-3] Williams, Roger [TX-25] Wilson, Joe [SC-2] Womack, Steve [AR-3] Yoho, Ted [FL-3]
01.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing the Expatriate Terrorist Act (ETA) of 2015. Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) has the companion bill in the Senate. Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) is a co-sponsor of the ETA. “I believe these American terrorists have voluntarily renounced their citizenship upon taking an oath to a foreign terrorist organization (FTO),” said King. “That is why Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) and I have introduced the Expatriate Terrorist Act (ETA). ETA will fill in these statutory holes that harbor the rights of American terrorists by providing the Secretary of State the legal authority to revoke a terrorist's passport. ETA will also make it clear that if a national of the U.S., by birth or naturalization, chooses to take an oath or pledge allegiance to a designated foreign terrorist organization; that individual has affirmatively renounced American citizenship. Such individuals who engage in hostilities or commit acts of terror against the United States are demonstrating they no longer uphold their pledge to the United States. Therefore, if a U.S. citizen were to join an FTO, and bomb a school in Israel (after pledging their allegiance to Hamas) they would be eligible to lose their U.S. citizenship, and subsequently have their passport revoked.” “America continues to suffer the consequences of the failed Obama-Clinton-Kerry foreign policy,” said Sen. Cruz. “From Syria to Iraq to Yemen, it is clear that when America withdraws from the world, the world becomes a more dangerous place. We must take bold action to protect our homeland by declaring that Americans who have traveled abroad to fight with radical Islamic terrorists have renounced their citizenship, and we must preempt any of their efforts to re-enter the country and launch further attacks on Americans.” To view the original bill text, click here.
01.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement on the 42nd anniversary of Roe v. Wade and the annual March for Life in Washington, D.C. King also voted in favor of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015. This act prohibits taxpayer dollars from being used to perform abortions. “Life begins at the moment of conception and it must be protected from that moment on,” said King “The same standard applies in the minute and hour before the child is born and there is no moment after conception that can be used to define the beginning of life. Anyone who has picked up a baby and has been there to either be the mother of the miracle or witness the miracle has to know without a doubt that that unborn child is a human being. Human life is sacred in all of its forms. It is the measure against which all other values are weighed. No moral person could take a baby’s life. I am dedicated to protecting the sanctity of life and I thank all Americans who come and march for the unborn. We should not be taxing Americans and forcing them to fund a violation of their religious freedom. The passage of this bill today is one more step toward restoring respect for the sanctity of all human life.” Greatly Blessed Grandpa with my 7 miracle grandbabies.
01.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement with his comments on the President’s State of the Union Address: To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, click here.
01.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement, right off the United States House Floor, after voting in favor of H.R. 240, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act: To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, click here.
01.13.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing two Constitutional Bills: H.R.140, the Birthright Citizenship Act of 2015 and H.J. Res 16, to repeal the 16th Amendment to the Constitution. Congressman King serves on the House Judiciary Committee’s Constitution and Civil Justice Subcommittee in the 114th Congress. H.R. 140, the Birthright Citizenship Act of 2015: “A Century ago it didn’t matter very much that a practice began that has now grown into a birthright citizenship, an anchor baby agenda,” said King. “When they started granting automatic citizenship on all babies born in the United States they missed the clause in the 14th Amendment that says, ‘And subject to the jurisdiction thereof.’ So once the practice began, it grew out of proportion and today between 340,000 and 750,000 babies are born in America each year that get automatic citizenship even though both parents are illegal. That has got to stop. I know of no other country in the world that does that. My Birthright Citizenship Act of 2015 fixes it, clarifies the 14th Amendment and it recognizes the clause, ‘And subject to the jurisdiction thereof.’ This Congress needs to Act.” H.J. Res 16, to repeal the 16th Amendment to the Constitution: “The federal government has the first lien on all productivity in America,” Said King. “Ronald Reagan once said, ‘What you tax you get less of.’ Right now we tax all productivity. We need to turn that completely around and put the tax on consumption. That is why we need to repeal the 16th Amendment which authorizes the income tax. Replacing the current income tax with a consumption tax will ensure that productivity is not punished in our country, but rewarded.”
01.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement after voting in favor of H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full statement, click here.
01.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H.R. 132, the ObamaCare Repeal Act: "In the wake of the 2014 mid-term elections it has become clear that the American people overwhelmingly reject the President's failed healthcare law,” said King. “The botched implementation of ObamaCare has been nothing short of a complete failure when millions of people had their health insurance plans cancelled because their grandfathered plans were in violation of ObamaCare's ‘essential health benefits.’ For several years now, conservatives in Congress have warned the American people of the damage this law has done to our personal health insurance. Unfortunately, our warnings have come true. ObamaCare was, is, and will always be dreadful public policy. Every Republican who was elected to Congress during the 2014 mid-term vowed to oppose ObamaCare during their respective campaigns. Now that Republicans have control of both the House and the Senate we must take swift action to keep pressure on the White House by repealing this unconstitutional and egregious law. My bill is the answer: full 100% repeal of ObamaCare ‘as if such Act had not been enacted’.” Original Co-Sponsors: Rep. Aderholt, Robert B. [R-AL-4] Rep. Allen, Rick [R-GA-2] Rep. Amash, Justin [R-MI-3] Rep. Babin, Brian, DDS [R-TX-36] Rep. Barr, Andy [R-KY-6] Rep. Bilirakis, Gus M. [R-FL-12] Rep. Collins, Doug [R-GA-9] Rep. Duncan, Jeff [R-SC-3] Rep. Duncan, John J., Jr. [R-TN-2] Rep. Franks, Trent [R-AZ-8] Rep. Gibbs, Bob [R-OH-7] Rep. Hensarling, Jeb [R-TX-5] Rep. Huelskamp, Tim [R-KS-1] Rep. Jolly, David [R-FL-13] Rep. Jones, Walter B. [R-NC-3] Rep. Massie, Thomas [R-KY-4] Rep. Meadows, Mark [R-NC-11] Rep. Moolenaar, John [R-MI-4] Rep. Newhouse, Dan [R-WA-4] Rep. Olson, Pete [R-TX-22] Rep. Palazzo, Steven [R-MS-4] Rep. Rohrabacher, Dana [R-CA-48] Rep. Rothfus, Keith J. [R-PA-12] Rep. Sanford, Mark [R-SC-1] Rep. Schweikert, David [R-AZ-6] Rep. Weber, Randy K. Sr. [R-TX-14] Rep. Yoho, Ted S. [R-FL-3] Rep. Young, David [R-IA-3] To view the bill text, click here.
01.08.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing his Defund Executive Amnesty Act. This bill will defund all executive amnesty created by our current, lawless administration. "My bill defunds all of the President's illegal and unconstitutional actions regarding immigration,” said King. “Beginning with the Morton Memos and Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), and covering all of his most recent illegal and unconstitutional acts to expand DACA to 5 million more illegal immigrants. To make sure President Obama doesn't attempt to find other ways to circumvent the Constitution, my bill also has a catch-all provision that bars any similar actions in the future and has language to make it clear illegal immigrants are not authorized to work in the United States. This preserves the Constitution, reinforces the separation of powers, and fulfills Republican promises to the American people in the 2014 election." To view the bill text, click here.
12.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement on the amendment he is offering to the House Rules Committee to the “CRomnibus” funding bill in the United States House. King’s amendment will fund all of the government until January 30 of next year but will prohibit any and all funds from being used to carry out the president’s lawless, unconstitutional executive amnesty in all its forms. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. To view the full text of the King Amendment, click here.
12.09.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement regarding the upcoming vote on continued funding of the federal government. House Leaders are preparing to move an omnibus spending bill that would provide funding for all departments of government except the Department of Homeland Security(DHS) which would be funded in a short term continuing resolution(CR). The President of the United States has violated the separation of powers doctrine of the Constitution by lawlessly issuing executive amnesty directives for an estimated 5 million people. A short term CR for DHS coupled with full funding of the balance of government until September 30th gives away almost all of the leverage of Congress to restrain a president by using the “power of the purse.” "The promise to fight later is not new but an actual all out effort by Congress to defund Obama's violations thereby defending the Constitution would be new,” said King. “This battle must be enjoined and the time is now. Anything less and House Republicans will have funded unconstitutional acts. All of us took an oath to defend the Constitution. Our oath means do so come what may. There is no provision for funding now and fighting later. There is no exception for political expediency and we will be called upon in early January to take the oath for the next Congress. “If we fund DHS for a short time without spending limitations stripping Obama Amnesty, we will have lost our Constitutional virtue. It will be nearly impossible to get it back in Congress or in the courts. That's why I'll offer an amendment to restore immigration policy back to current law. Keep in mind, the Obama Administration issued DACA cards and work permits during the shutdown. They would not hesitate to shut down DHS because USCIS employees were paid on time while Border Patrol agents had to wait until after the shutdown. “To preserve leverage, my amendment will fund all of the government until January 30 of next year but will prohibit any and all funds from being used to carry out the president’s unconstitutional, executive amnesty in all its forms.”
12.04.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King spoke on the House Floor today on H.R. 5759, “The Executive Amnesty Prevention Act,” also known as the Yoho Bill. King voted present on H.R. 5759. King supports Representative Ted Yoho but is determined to defund the lawless acts of this President. To watch Congressman Steve King’s remarks, click here.
11.18.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the Iowa National Guard announced that by the order of the Secretary of Defense, the 294th Area Support Medical Company, Iowa Army National Guard based in Washington, Iowa has a pending mobilization in support of the Operation United Assistance. This will affect approximately 80 soldiers from that unit. “God Bless everyone who is willing to go to the Ebola stricken regions in Africa,” said King. “I have many times said they should be volunteers for a mission to fight an unseen, lethal enemy. As part of the Iowa family, our prayers go with you all. Except for U.S. citizens quarantined upon their arrival, the President should immediately halt travel between the U.S. and any country that is a source of the Ebola outbreak. According to the State Department 13,500 foreign nationals from Sierra Leon, Guinea, and Liberia have been granted travel visas for the U.S. These individuals could pose a serious threat to the public health and security of the U.S. This threat must be contained and controlled.”
11.13.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in reaction to the leaked amnesty details this morning: “This President has been floating the trial balloon on executive amnesty for a long time,” said King. “Today, new details surfaced that the President plans to attempt amnesty as early as next Friday, sending us into a Constitutional crisis. The President was right when he said on March 28, 2011, ‘with respect to the notion that I can just suspend deportations through executive order, that’s just not the case, because there are laws on the books that Congress has passed.’ And when he said, on May 10, 2011, ‘sometimes when I talk to immigration advocates, they wish I could just bypass Congress and change the law myself. But that’s not how a democracy works.’ Well, now we know that his belief about ‘how democracy works’ was a ploy. Now he wants to unilaterally rewrite immigration law granting illegal amnesty to millions. The audacity of this President to think he can completely destroy the Rule of Law with the stroke of a pen is unfathomable to me. It is unconstitutional, it is cynical, and it violates the will of the American people. Our Republic will not stand if we tolerate a President who is set upon the complete destruction of the Rule of Law. I am calling on all of my colleagues in the House to use the power of the purse to protect our Article I authority. This is about defending our oath to the Constitution too. We cannot allow Barack Obama’s anticipated, unconstitutional act to be implemented, for if it is it will destroy the pillars of American Exceptionalism. Come what may – we must always protect the Constitution.”
10.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the California Egg Law lawsuit being rejected. This lawsuit was filed by the state of Missouri, along with five others, to eliminate a California law that prohibits the sale of eggs laid by hens held in cages they deem “too small.” Mr. King’s Protect Interstate Commerce Act (PICA), which the California lawsuit originates from, was attached to the House Farm Bill during markup in the House Agriculture Committee last year but was ultimately not accepted with the final Farm Bill Act of 2014. This act would prohibit any state from enacting laws that place restrictions on the means of production for agricultural goods that are sold within the state but are produced in other states. "It is not surprising that the egg lawsuit was rejected by the 9th Circuit on a technicality. California's law regulating egg producers in other states is unconstitutional and anti-consumer,” said King. “It is trade protectionism for California egg producers who are handicapped by a foolish California policy that would regulate them out of business without protection from competition from Iowa and other states. Now we renew our efforts at additional litigation and legislation. If we fall short of fixing this problem, the result will be trade retaliation from other state legislatures. It's hard to push for free trade with foreign countries when we have to admit that we can't, at least for now, maintain free trade between the states. I think I can do without California wine longer than they can without our eggs.”
09.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in remembrance of the 13th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks: “Today we remember the thousands of innocent lives lost and honor the heroes of the horrible tragedy that took place on September 11, 2001,” said King. “The powerful story of 9/11 and the resolve of the American people during that time of struggle will be known for generations to come. In the wake of this tragedy, Americans of all backgrounds and ideologies became unified as one. Our prayers are with the families and loved ones of the lives lost during the attacks. There is no amount of time that erases that terrible feeling of loss, but I pray that they have found new hope and peace in the memories of their loved ones. We are also thankful for the heroism of those first responders who laid their lives on the line for the sake of others. May we unite together today and always in service for our great country in the same remarkable way that Americans came together now 13 years ago. This day should also be a reminder that we must always keep a watchful eye on our enemies. The fight against those who want to take our freedom and liberty from us is far from over. Our Nation needs Americans to come together and pray for a path toward a more peaceful tomorrow. America is a strong and powerful Nation, and we will never forget 9/11.”
09.04.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after a recent email from the office of Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller advised county attorneys to disregard Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainer orders and release suspected illegal immigrants from custody: Attorney Supervisor, Corwin Ritchie, advised all county attorneys the below in an email on May 22, 2014: "We recommend that you review your jail’s practices with regard to ICE detainers in light of the...potential civil liability those practices entail. While not yet clear in Iowa, it is doubtful that the 48 hour hold requested by the I-247 detainer will offer protection from liability....We recognize that this notice may raise more questions than provide answers in this developing area of law." “Iowa's chief law enforcement officer is thwarting a policy that simply ensures that immigration law is enforced against threats to public safety,” said King. “Attorney General Tom Miller appears to have given in to pressure from the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) at the cost of endangering the health and safety of Iowans and the Rule of Law. AG Miller's message to local law enforcement is not a reasoned legal argument but instead an act of choosing sides against the best interests of Iowans and public safety. Federal ICE detainer orders are clear, precise and mandatory. The law states that agencies ‘shall maintain custody of the alien,’ once an ICE detainer order on a prisoner is issued. Attorney General Miller's office still, remarkably, told all 99 counties in Iowa that the ICE detainer orders are simply requests. These ICE detainer orders are used to make sure that aliens that commit serious crimes are not released back in the public when they should be lawfully deported back to their native countries. Federal law clearly states that it is mandatory to honor detainer orders. Furthermore, no binding precedent in the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals or in Iowa state court disputes the plain language of the detainer orders. Thankfully, the ultimate decision to follow the law and protect Iowans is not in the hands of Attorney General Miller. I call on all Iowa law enforcement to follow the law and protect their citizens.” My op-ed in National Review on August 26, 2014: The ACLU vs. the Rule of Law.
08.01.2014	Congressman Steve King (IA-04) partnered with his colleagues, Representatives Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Trent Franks (AZ-08), Paul Broun (GA-10), and Michele Bachmann (MN-06) on the following statement on the latest developments in Israel:"Instead of supporting Israel's right of self-defense against Hamas rocket fire and death tunnels, this administration played to the hands of Hamas and the Palestinian Authority.President Obama and Secretary of State Kerry bear a responsibility for devising an ill-advised ceasefire and for the loss of life suffered by our best ally. Their obsessive calls at any price for a ceasefire and undue pressure on Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, allowed Hamas terrorists to advance and improve their position. This contributed today to the further loss of Israeli soldiers, innocent civilians, and the kidnapping of Israeli Defense Force 2nd Lieutenant Hadar Goldin. We wish to extend our support to the family of 2nd Lieutenant Goldin and the families of all the fallen and wounded soldiers."
07.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after hosting Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) as the guest speaker this morning at the Conservative Opportunity Society, a Members only breakfast. Sessions delivered a message which resonated with House core conservatives that the immigration border bill must have two legislative fixes. The result of the breakfast meeting is summarized in the language below that is now garnering support around the Capitol. Below is the proposal House conservatives provided to House Leadership: “As it is currently written, the proposed supplemental (H.R. 5230) is inadequate to earn our support. If the DACA fix (Cruz/Blackburn, H.R. 5160) is included, and the Chaffetz/Goodlatte OTM/UAC fix (H.R. 5137) is substituted for the extremely problematic OTM/UAC language currently in the bill, we will support the bill. This is our effort to get to "yes" on a bill that addresses the problem, and puts Republicans in the driver's seat.” “This is an effort to get to yes,” said King. “And it is my hope that with this language we can become a 100% unified conference and stand together defending the Constitution, the Rule of Law, border security, and American’s economic security.”
07.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King today released his questioning of the witnesses in the House Judiciary Committee on the “Oversight of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services”: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
07.25.2014	The clarion call has sounded from President Obama and the pundits residing in Washington D.C. that Congress should "do something." Lost in this theory of governing by crisis, is that President Obama's actions created this historic calamity on the border. This is a "man caused disaster" and the man who caused it is Barack Obama. Waiting for President Obama to enforce the law is akin to waiting for Godot. President Obama is as likely to secure the border as he is to build the Keystone XL Pipeline. We are looking at two and a half long years of watching hundreds of thousands, even millions, of illegal immigrants flood our country and our services unless we find a way to circumvent the feckless will of the president and secure the border even, if need be, against his will. The only other authorities with the ability to secure the border are the border state governors. It is time for Congress to call upon the border state governors to call out their national guard to secure our national border. Governors have the power to do so under Article I, Section 10 of the Constitution. Current legislative tactics have been to react to a crisis by pushing for urgent action, too often without careful consideration. This tactic generally includes a "package" filled with varied pieces of legislation that may or may not survive scrutiny on their own. This approach is usually designed to garner votes and to provide cover for Members of Congress who do not want to be on record for particular proposals or who want to be seen as "doing something." Such a package would have no chance to pass the Senate or to be enacted into law. Senate Democrats would likely load it up with Gang of Eight amnesty provisions, virtually guaranteeing its failure. The stakes are too high to simply create a package for the sake of doing something. We need to concentrate on real fixes. The House needs to bring narrow individual proposals up for consideration, a vote, and them send them to the Senate. I propose the House implement a four part strategy, one for each legislative day of the last week before the annual August break. Each would be designed to actually address sovereignty and the open border crisis centered now at McAllen, Texas. On Monday, our first piece of legislation should be a House Resolution, closely drafted to the principles laid out in a new resolution by Rep.Trent Franks, reflecting the points compiled in a House Judiciary memo by Chairman Bob Goodlatte. In short, the president's lawless DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) policy and the constant promise of full amnesty is the cause of the calamity. He can end this crisis by rescinding the policies and restoring the Rule of Law. The resolution should also include a call on the border state governors to secure the borders with the commitment of the House to fund their effort. On Tuesday, the House should bring to the floor a supplemental appropriation bill to directly fund border states who call up their national guard to secure the border. We are learning that there are jobs an American president won't do, among them are the jobs of enforcing the law and securing the border. Since the president won't secure our border, let's fund the governors who will. I have introduced H Res. 675 supporting the Constitutional authority of our governors to call up the National Guard to defend their border. Congress can empower them with funds to assist in the effort. This necessary action is a funding obligation of the federal government. On Wednesday, the House should take up and pass a simple fix to the 2008 Human Trafficking bill which was passed without a recorded vote by a Democrat House and Senate on the last day of the 110th Congress and after last votes when most Members had left town for Christmas. This Act is not the cause of the crisis on our border but it does contribute to the problem. President Obama supported a fix to the "non contiguous" language in this law before open borders amnesty advocates convinced him to reverse his position. It makes no sense to treat all unaccompanied minors as trafficking victims when they or their parents are those who are hiring the coyotes to transport them in the first place. When one hires a human trafficker to traffic themselves or a family member, they cannot be automatically declared a "victim" of their own actions. On Thursday, we need to deal with the asylum issue and creation of a mechanism for expedited processing of the aliens already here. It is vital to ensure this process does not turn into an assembly line of amnesty. There are some excellent ideas that have emerged from the working group led by Rep. Granger of Texas. We do need very temporary housing, nothing better than the canvas resources that are good enough for our military. Electronic "Skype" type hearings can utilize judicial resources from all across the country. "Last in, first out" can send the right message of deterrence to the home countries. Orderly and swift adjudication while containing aliens as close to the border as possible will produce the best results. All of these proposals are unlikely to pass the Senate where Harry Reid has held up over 300 other House bills. Regardless, the United States House of Representatives owes it to the American people to provide solutions to this "man caused disaster". If the proposed work of Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday should be enacted into law, we can expect the border to be secured by the states. If the proposed work for Thursday becomes law, we can expect to begin to clean up the mess of a human tragedy created by lawless policy. "The president may then revisit the Constitution he once taught, "He shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed."
07.25.2014	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King, Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee's Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, and Nutrition, held a public hearing to examine the role of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) in relation to other federal assistance programs. SNAP is designed primarily to increase the food purchasing power of eligible low-income households to help them buy a nutritional, low-cost diet. SNAP benefits are fully financed by the federal government; administrative costs are shared between state governments and the federal government. In recent years, the cost of the program has increased from $37.6 billion in 2008 to nearly $80 billion in 2013. Likewise, participation in the program has grown from 28.2 million participants in 2008 to 47.6 million in 2013. Subcommittee Members used the hearing to learn more about the program, including how it addresses hunger, how it is linked to other federal programs, and how opportunities or barriers impact the ability of low-income families to secure employment and job training to lift themselves out of poverty and off of SNAP. "No matter what side of the aisle you sit on, we can all agree on the importance of SNAP in helping those in need. However, with soaring deficits and an out-of-control national debt, we must be mindful of this grave fiscal situation. We, as Members of Congress, have a responsibility to the American people to oversee federal programs paid for by the taxpayer to ensure that they are operating in the most efficient, cost-effective manner," said Chairman Steve King. The full archived webcast is linked here. Witness List: Ms. Sidonie Squier, Secretary, New Mexico Human Services Department, Santa Fe, New Mexico; on behalf of the Secretary's Innovation Group Mr. Robert Doar, Morgridge Fellow in Poverty Studies, American Enterprise Institute, Washington, D.C. Ms. Stacy Dean, Vice President for Food Assistance Policy, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Washington, D.C.
07.17.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing a resolution calling upon the border state Governors to deploy their National Guard units immediately to seal the border: “There is nothing in President Obama’s $3.7 billion request that secures our border,” said King. “Even though this President has the power to close the border, I know that he never will. In fact he refuses to do so. The American people must understand that this surge in illegals coming across our border is a presidential-caused crisis. This President's lawless actions such as DACA have caused this nightmare. These actions clearly demonstrate that he is not bound by the Constitution and will not take seriously his obligation to defend our sovereign borders. This crisis is devastating our communities and putting the burden on American taxpayers. Right now there is an incentive for illegals to continue to pour across our border, and the only way to discourage them is to seal our border and send them back. Therefore we call upon the southern border Governors to call up their National Guard units to secure the border. This resolution also commits the United States House to funding the states for the cost of securing our border. These are the only supplemental appropriations the House should be considering.” To view the original resolution, click here. List of Representative original co-sponsors: Michele Bachmann (MN-06) Michael Burgess (TX-26) Rob Bishop (UT-01) Jeff Duncan (SC-03) Jimmy Duncan (TN-02) John Fleming (LA-04) Trent Franks (AZ 08) Bob Gibbs (OH-07) Phil Gingery (GA-11) Louie Gohmert (TX-01) Walter Jones (NC-03) Doug LaMalfa (CA-01) Doug Lamborn (CO-05) Kenny Marchant (TX-24) Thomas Massie (KY-04) Tom McClintock (CA-04) Mark Meadows (NC-11) Mike Palazzo (MS-04) Bill Posey (FL-08) Tom Rice (SC-07) Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) Lamar Smith (TX-21) Steve Stockman (TX-36) Randy Weber (TX-14) Joe Wilson (SC-02) Ted Yoho (FL-03)
07.10.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following video excerpt on his remarks from the House Floor introducing his Davis-Bacon Amendment to H.R. 4923, FY 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill: To view Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. “This amendment strikes the funds that might be used to enforce the Davis Bacon wage scale. That’s a piece of legislation that passed here in this Congress sometime about 1931. It was designed to keep African Americans out of the Labor force in New York as they were building federal buildings. It comes down to this, when you have a relationship between two people and they agree to a wage scale that’s all that should be required; instead this federal minimum wage scale sets a union scale. It’s not prevailing wage, its union scale. I have dealt with Davis Bacon wage scales all of my business life. I started a construction company in 1975. We almost immediately had to deal with the federal government coming in and saying ‘on this side of the road you shall pay your shovel operator this, and on the other side of the road you shall pay him something that might be half or even more than that and the guy the has the grease gun gets this, and the guy that runs the excavator gets that.’ The federal government micromanaging and disrupting the efficiencies in our constructions companies results in far higher costs for our construction projects. We are bleeding red ink in the federal government. CBO made the recommendation that if we want to move towards balance, repeal of the Davis Bacon Act would be one of those things that would help us move in that direction. If my amendment is enacted into law, we will see a savings in this bill of 1.3 billion. No one can claim to be a physical conservative if they think the federal government needs to inflate the cost of wages. It’s an arbitrary, subjective decision - it’s not prevailing wage.”
07.01.2014	Washington, DC _ Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the United States Supreme Court ruled in favor of Hobby Lobby in the Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc. case: "The Supreme Court came in with a resounding landmark decision in favor of Hobby Lobby," said King. "Hobby Lobby argued their religious convictions would not allow them to provide, to their employees under ObamaCare: sterilizations, abortion causing drugs, or certain contraceptives. Hobby Lobby asserted the federal government has no right to tell those who own a business that they must violate their most deeply held convictions or face a fine from the IRS that would eventually bankrupt the company. In the 5-4 decision, the majority opinion written by Justice Alito, concluded the Constitution means what it says and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 also means what it says. This landmark Hobby Lobby case blows a big hole in ObamaCare and there's more to come. I have long said that ObamaCare is unconstitutional for a number of reasons. I know of no legal scholar who predicted the rationale of Chief Justice Roberts in the first big legal challenge of ObamaCare. We should expect at least two more big cases to be decided by the high court. The most potentially devastating case to the Obama Agenda will likely be decided when the court rules on the origination clause in the Hotze v. Sibelius case. All revenue generating bills must start in the House. The Senate violated that principle by tearing a bill number off an unrelated, non revenue generating bill from the House and pasting the bill number onto a 2000 page ObamaCare bill. The Supreme Court has ruled unanimously against the Obama Administration in 12 recent cases. This 5-4 Hobby Lobby decision is a strong indication the court will do more of its part to deconstruct ObamaCare. We cannot rest, however. No matter how much encouragement we feel as the courts begin to take ObamaCare apart, it is the job of Congress to listen to the people and pull ObamaCare out by its roots. I congratulate Hobby Lobby for standing on both their religious convictions and on Constitutional principles. All Americans benefit when principled people take a stand."
06.27.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement calling on the Department of Justice (DOJ) to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the IRS’s alleged targeting of conservative groups. King also called for the impeachment of Attorney General Eric Holder if he fails to do so. “There is a long list of obvious bias by Holder's Department of Justice,” said King. "We got the first taste of the injustice of Holder's Department of Justice when he cancelled the convictions of the New Black Panthers, the most open and shut case of voter intimidation in U.S. history. A long list of the subjects of Holder's targeting of conservatives is not balanced by evidence that Holder has investigated, convened a grand jury, or prosecuted anyone in the Obama Administration.Unlike a number of my colleagues, I have not called for Holder to resign or be removed by the president. I believe the evidence should be strong before such a call or change is made. Holder's silence on the IRS\Lois Lerner obstruction of the constitutionally based, Congressional oversight of the IRS targeting of President Obama's political opposition is the last straw. It is clear to every informed American, other than the most blindly loyal defenders of Obama, that justice can only be served with a special prosecutor or a special select committee. When a United States Senator, whose integrity is beyond reproach, is targeted for ‘exam’ by a highly placed IRS official, when that official has pleaded the 5th, and when two years of e-mails in seven different computers vanish into the thin air of cyberspace, there is no doubt left in my mind that justice must be served. When the Attorney General of the United States follows his leader by leading from behind, it's time to push him to the front one way or the other. History will not treat this administration kindly. Justice must be served. The IRS cannot be allowed to be weaponized to be used against political opponents. Eric Holder's refusal to do his job is resulting in an obstruction of justice. The Constitution provides a remedy, however reluctant we are to apply the remedy." In addition to the failure to investigate and prosecute the IRS for targeting certain political organizations, Attorney General Eric Holder has been involved in the following: DOJ was at the center of the Fast and Furious gun-walking scandal that led to the death of a U.S. Border Patrol agent. The House of Representatives voted him in contempt of Congress two years ago. DOJ created Dinesh D’souza’s politically motivated prosecution of violating the federal campaign finance laws by making false contributions. DOJ was involved in Obama’s labor-secretary nominee Tom Perez’ arranged quid pro quo deal with the city of St. Paul, Minnesota. DOJ attempted to bring the 9/11 terrorist Khalid Sheikh Mohammed to Manhattan to be tried on U.S. soil. DOJ gave the Obama Administration the green light to transfer detainees from Guantanamo Bay without giving proper notice to Congress. DOJ has continuously refused to enforce our immigration laws. DOJ is doing nothing to investigate the seven “lost” hard drives in the IRS. The American people know that this is another fabricated lie from the IRS.
06.25.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following video excerpts from his questioning of the witnesses in the Full House Judiciary Committee on “An Administration Made Disaster: The South Texas Border Surge of Unaccompanied Alien Minors.” To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
06.25.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act: “Just last week, reports surfaced that Russia's State Controlled Gas Corporation, Gazprom, cut off natural gas exports to Ukraine,” said King. “The House Republicans have taken swift action to fill the natural gas void by passing H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act. H.R. 6 will benefit America's economy by increasing liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports to our European allies - that are currently held hostage by Russian gas. America is the largest producer of natural gas on Earth. While our President stands idle watching and waiting for the Russians to retreat to their homeland, House Republicans have taken bold actions to help isolate Russia from the global economy.”
06.24.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 4413, the Customer Protection and End-User Relief Act of 2014. This bill reauthorizes and reforms the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). “Today, the House passed a bill that stimulates more growth for our agriculture economy,” said King. “It ensures further protections and accountability in our futures markets by requiring the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to utilize cost-benefit analysis and dramatically decreasing the adverse impact of new regulations by creating a new rule making process. Iowa’s producers deserve a secure financial services market they can depend upon. This bill reforms and reduces the burden of the nearly 60 regulations on financial products issued by the CFTC that were created by Dodd-Frank. This will encourage healthy and less burdensome regulation schemes on the financial services market and give future consumers the protections, clarity, and relief they need. I am grateful for Chairman Frank Lucas bringing this bill to the floor on behalf of myself and the rest of the Agriculture Committee.”
06.24.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after congratulating Sadie Lewman of Farnhamville, Iowa on winning the 2014 Congressional Art Competition for the Fourth District of Iowa. Lewman’s artwork is a pen drawing and water color of a pair of running shoes, entitled “Runner’s High.” Her artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year alongside the winning selections from other Congressional Districts across the country. Each winner is given airfare for two to visit Washington, D.C. for an awards ceremony and become eligible to receive a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. Lewman plans to attend Iowa State for a degree in materials engineering and the arts. Congressman Steve King with Sadie Lewman in his DC office. Her artwork, “Runner’s High” is now on display in the U.S. Capitol. “I am pleased to congratulate Sadie Lewman on her achievement of winning this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said King. “Her talent will now be displayed for all who come to the U.S. Capitol to enjoy. I look forward to seeing Sadie grow in her creative abilities and wish her well in her future endeavors.” Congressman King sponsors the Congressional Art Competition each spring, and the contest is open to all Fourth District high school students. Any students or schools interested in participating in next year's Congressional Art Competition should contact Jeremy Davis in Congressman King's Ames office at 515-232-2885 for additional information.
06.20.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 4870, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2015. Mr. King’s amendment to H.R. 4870 which states, “None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to transfer weapons to the Palestinian Authority,” was passed by voice vote. To view Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. “We cannot afford and cannot fund a Palestinian government that includes Hamas because they are a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO). I would bring to the attention of the Floor the Palestinian, Anti-Terrorist Act (PATA) of 2006, which bans funding to a government that includes Hamas until they meet three different conditions. One is that they recognize Israel, two is that they renounce violence, and three is that they accept previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements. They’ve done none of those three things. Prior to June 2, 2014, the U.S. has never recognized a government that includes Hamas, and that’s why I bring this amendment and I would point out that the administration has been isolating Israel in a number of ways. Secretary Kerry in April of this year compared Israel to an “apartheid state.” I’ve been there a number of times and I’ve not seen that…I think Israel would reject that… In May of 2011, President Obama said that Israel should return to its 1967 borders. That would be indefensible for Israel to do that. We need to stick with the existing statute, the 2006 Palestinian, Anti-Terrorism Act.” To view the original text of Mr. King’s amendment, click here.
06.18.2014	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following audio statement after a series of severe weather including substantial rain, hail, and heavy winds hit the 4th District of Iowa: To listen to full audio statement please click here. If you are in need of assistance please contact one of my district offices: Ames 1421 S Bell Avenue Suite 102 Ames, IA 50010 Phone: 515.232.2885 Fax: 515.232.2844 Fort Dodge 723 Central Avenue Fort Dodge, IA 50501 Phone: 515.573.2738 Fax: 515.576.7141 Mason City 202-1st Street SE Suite 126 Mason City, IA 50401 Phone: 641.201.1624 Fax: 641.201.1523 Sioux City 526 Nebraska Street Sioux City, IA 51101 Phone: 712.224.4692 Fax: 712.224.4693 Spencer 306 Grand Avenue, P.O. Box 650 Spencer, IA 51301 Phone: 712.580.7754 Fax: 712.580.3354
06.12.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to Majority Leader Eric Cantor’s sudden resignation and the upcoming election for a new Majority Leader: “At a time when Republicans in Congress are fighting the Obama Administration to oppose snap elections for unions on American employers, Republican Leadership is trying to do the same in the United States House of Representatives,” said King. “This snap election has the effect of stacking the deck. Unfortunately, while both current candidates benefit from the hasty timeframe prescribed by leadership, neither opposes amnesty legislation being brought to the floor of the House. The primary election in Virginia 7 that led to this leadership vacuum turned on the electorate’s opposition to amnesty. Have we learned nothing? Let’s take more time to get our heads clear and elect a staunch conservative, anti-amnesty candidate to step up and lead the Majority.”
06.06.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the third time Democrat New York Senator Chuck Schumer took to the Senate Floor to attack King on immigration: “There he goes again,” said King. “Senator Schumer is continuing his attempt to taunt Speaker Boehner and Leadership into bringing his Senate Gang of Eight’s amnesty agenda to the floor of the House. This is the third time Schumer has read from a script on the Senate Floor giving me the credit for leading on immigration in the House but at the same time claiming that I am doing nothing. Well, just last week two of my immigration amendments passed with a strong majority and bi-partisan vote in the House. These amendments addressed the extreme lack of enforcement for the Rule of Law. I want to see the Rule of Law restored and upheld and I will work every day to make this happen. Senator Schumer – why won’t you debate me on immigration? Is it because your position is indefensible?”
05.30.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after Secretary of Veteran Affairs Eric Shinseki announced his resignation: “General Shinseki has lost the confidence of our veterans,” said King. “I thank him for serving our country. His replacement will need the maximum authority to reform this government run Healthcare system. I have long supported giving our veterans a healthcare credit card they can use anywhere. This will inject competition into the VA. We have thousands of excellent and dedicated healthcare workers in the VA. We also have a preview of what a microcosm of ObamaCare looks like. If government can’t fix the VA for our veterans, how can government manage healthcare for all Americans?”
05.29.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after his amendment to H.R. 4660, the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations (CJS) Act of 2015 was adopted. Also today, in a Full House Judiciary Committee Hearing, King questioned the witness, Secretary of the Department of Homeland Secretary Jeh Johnson, on the failure of the Obama Administration’s immigration enforcement priorities. During this questioning, Secretary Johnson agreed that he would comply with the King amendment when passed. “I am pleased to see my amendment adopted to the CJS Appropriations Act in the House today,” said King. “My amendment directs the Department of Justice to investigate the discretionary release of 36,007 convicted criminals. This amendment is designed direct the DOJ to allocate resources from their general administrative funds to investigate the Department of Homeland Security's 2013 discretionary enforcement decisions; Specifically, to investigate the release of 36,007 criminal aliens pending their deportation and 68,000 criminal aliens that ICE encountered, usually in jails, and chose not to deport.” To view the original text of Mr. King’s amendment, click here. To watch the excerpt from Mr. King’s questioning of Secretary Jeh Johnson, click here. King: “I have an amendment that is pending a vote right now on the floor of the House of Representatives with regard to the Justice Appropriations that directs the Attorney General to investigate these tens of thousands of criminals that have been released onto the streets, partly as a result of this program, partly of others. If that becomes law, will you cooperate with the Department of Justice in that particular investigation?” Johnson: “You can always count on me to comply with the law, sir.”
05.22.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 4435, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of Fiscal Year 2015. This bill authorizes the budget authority of the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. “For the 53rd consecutive year, the NDAA fulfills one of Congress' essential responsibilities mandated by Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution - to raise and support an army, and to provide and maintain a Navy,” said King “Maintaining a strong national defense is one of the top priorities for our America's national security and defense at home and abroad, but we must keep that within the realm of a fiscally responsible defense budget. The FY15 NDAA puts the safety and priorities of our troops and their families first. The bill also addresses a number of areas including: strengthening our military readiness, adding religious protections for military chaplains, enhancing funding for the U.S. Israeli Iron Dome Project, and assuring that America's Armed Forces maintain a global presence that allows our nation's military to face current threats and prepare for new ones. Furthermore, it does not cut any funding from our troops and their families, giving them the assurance they need when fighting for our great freedoms. NDAA creates new measures to combat sexual assault within the military, adds additional support for the National Guard, and helps to address America's national security interests around the globe. I was pleased to see this year’s NDAA passed with strong support, as it lays out an agenda that will preserve a strong national defense in the year ahead.” Important provisions Mr. King considered when voting for H.R. 4435: Authorizations: $521.3 billion for National Defense. $79.4 billion for the Overseas Contingency Operations fund (OCO). H.R. 4435 authorizes $30.7 billion less than the enacted in NDAA FY14. Supports: H.R. 4435 protects Iowa Reserve Components and bans the divestiture of guard aircraft. Increases funding for Missile Defense by $40 million from FY14 levels. H.R. 4453 blocks any Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) from occurring in FY15. Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) - requires a report on information for a 3-year migration plan to move enduring requirements funding into the base budget. Also requires the Administration to report to Congress a detailed assessment of enduring mission requirements and what is currently funded through OCO. Increases troop funding by 1.8% Does not cut TRICARE, Housing Allowances, or Commissary Benefits for our troops and their families. Funds the U.S./Israeli Iron Dome Project at $175 million more than the President's request for FY15. Prohibits transfer of detainees from the Guantanamo Bay to the United States. Prohibits U.S. Military from contact or cooperation with the Russian military until the Secretary of Defense can certify that Russia has vacated the Crimea. The bill enhances religious protections for military chaplains.
05.22.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following excerpts from his House Floor remarks on H.R. 3361, the USA FREEDOM Act. Mr. King voted in opposition to this bill. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. “I offered an amendment before the Judiciary Committee, it was voted on, but I have to say that in my opinion it was not considered in a fashion that would have allowed for the full judgment of the Judiciary Committee to weigh in. My amendment allows for the intelligence community to negotiate with the telecommunications providers for a period of time longer then is today required by the FCC. I think that it’s not possible for anyone who supports this bill, to argue that it makes us safer - it protects our civil liberties more. But there’s a window beyond the FCC requirements that I would like to see be available on something other than a voluntary basis. So I wanted to come here to this floor and put my marker down on that concern. We should not sacrifice the security in America and we should protect the civil liberties of Americans - we can do that at the same time. I think this bill falls somewhat short, although the underlining concept of the bill I do support.”
05.21.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 4031, the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014. H.R. 4031 will give the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Eric Shinseki, the authority to terminate senior executives involved in the recent VA "secret waiting list" scandal. “Our veterans have put their lives on the line to protect and defend the freedoms we enjoy in our great Nation,” said King. “It is intolerable that any veteran should have to suffer – let alone be outright deceived - because of delayed treatment they need and deserve. Widespread lack of mismanagement and accountability in the VA have contributed to the deaths of 40 veterans on a ‘secret waiting list’ that caused lengthy wait times, and increased claims backlog. I am pleased the House passed this bill. Granting Secretary Shineski the authority to fire negligent senior executives at the VA will not provide justice for the deaths of these veterans, but it will provide a level of accountability and Congressional Oversight. However, this does not fully fix the problem. What has happened here is a systemic tragedy that seems to be growing like a virus across this country and I don't think we've even caught up with the breadth of it yet. The VA needs an overhaul that rightly prioritizes those coming into the system and gives those, especially veterans, the care and attention they need. If the VA can become such a big, government, bureaucratic mess, how bad will ObamaCare become?”
05.21.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of the Conference Report for H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) of 2014: “The bill, which passed overwhelmingly in the House today, is the best WRRDA final passage that I have had a chance to vote on thanks to the numerous process reforms and money saving measures,” said King. “Among a number of improvements, it frees up funding for important water infrastructure maintenance work, reduces bureaucratic hurdles to new water projects, and increases the role of local and private entities while also increasing productivity and economic growth. More importantly it gives Congress authorization authority rather than leaving it in the hands of the executive branch. The bill not only strengthens our Nation’s transportation network as a whole, but brings significant improvements for Iowa. It includes earthen levees, floodwalls, and closure structures for the 1,300 city blocks of Cedar Rapids that flooded in June 2008, frees up more funding for maintenance of locks and dams in the Mississippi River, and expands the boundaries of the flood mitigation project on the Des Moines River and the Raccoon River. I am grateful for Chairman Bill Schuster and the Transportation Committee’s work on this piece of legislation and look forward to the improvements it will bring.”
05.16.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after honoring World War II Veteran Robert Irwin of Sioux City, Iowa with military medals replaced by King's office: Congressman Steve King honors WWII Veteran Robert Irwin. “Robert served our country faithfully,” said King. “And like all soldiers he deserves our sincerest respect and admiration. I was honored to present him with his military medals today as a small way to show my appreciation for his service.” Medals Awarded: Distinguished Flying Cross Air Medal with Large Bronze and Silver Oak Leaf Clusters Army Commendation Medal Good Conduct Medal American Campaign Medal European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with Triple Bronze Star Attachment World War II Victory Medal National Defense Service Medal with Bronze Star Attachment Korean Service Medal with Bronze Star Attachment Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal with Bronze Star Attachment Armed Forces Reserve Medal with Bronze Hourglass Device Overseas Service Ribbon with Numeral 1 United Nations Service Medal
05.15.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Democrat New York Senator Chuck Schumer took to the Senate Floor to, once again, attack King on immigration and goad Republicans into passing amnesty: “Once again, I’m flattered by Senator Schumer, and now Majority leader Harry Reid’s attempt to insult me, yet give me 100 percent of the credit for blocking their amnesty agenda,” said King. “Their goal is to bait Republicans into passing amnesty. I want to remind our Republican leadership that there is a hook in the bait that Schumer and Reid are dangling – and you are smarter than to take it and get caught. Their goal always has been and always will be to divide Republicans and unite Democrats. The only way the American people lose is if John Boehner and the rest of our Republican leadership take the bait dangled before them on the Senate Floor again this week. I have stated time and time again, and my resolve could not be stronger – I will continue to focus on restoring the Rule of Law above all else in this immigration debate and I urge my colleagues to do the same. And by the way, It doesn’t trouble me at all that Senate Democratic leadership is troubled by me.”
05.09.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of establishing a select committee on the events surrounding Benghazi: “The American people deserve answers from their President on what happened in Benghazi,” said King. “What was the exact timeline of events? What exactly happened in the situation? What orders where given, if any? Today, the House established a select committee of Members of Congress to investigate and answer these questions. This was a tragic day where four great Americans lost their lives, but it could have been prevented. President Obama, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and other top administration officials willfully and deliberately perpetrated a false story to the American public and they deserve to know the truth. It is past time that Congress hold the Obama Administration fully accountable for its failures before, during, and after this deadly attack. I look forward to the work this committee will accomplish and the truths that will be brought to light.”
05.07.2014	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing the Tax Free Health Insurance Act, which would eliminate taxes on health insurance for those in the individual market: “In 2012, there were 20.9 million Americans who purchased individual health insurance for themselves and their families,” said King. “All of these individuals were not able to deduct this cost from their taxes. Yet virtually all corporations can deduct health insurance. This is a major inequity in our tax code, one that must be addressed through Congressional action. ObamaCare commands these Americans to buy policies yet, for 20.9 million, and only the 20.9 million, they have to do so with after tax dollars. That's why today, I am proud to introduce the Tax Free Health Insurance Act (TFHIA), which is currently cosponsored by twenty one of my colleagues. “The measure I'm introducing today would address this problem by creating a new tax deduction available to anyone who purchases independent coverage for an individual or family policy. The deduction would be available to anyone who purchases non-group insurance - whether or not they itemize on their tax return. “The cost of health insurance premiums is skyrocketing because of ObamaCare, so for hardworking American families, this deduction is very important. The bill I'm introducing today would offer these Americans a tax break on the cost of health insurance premiums, which will allow them to spend less and save more. My proposal would help Americans from across the economic spectrum, including small-business owners who own an LLC, LP, Sole Proprietorship, or S-Corp, as well as the hard-working individuals who under ObamaCare are now required to scrape to find extra money to provide health insurance for their families. “During these tough economic times, it is more important than ever that Congress act to alleviate the economic burdens of health insurance premiums on our constituents. In 2014 it is estimated that the average family of four in America will have an annual income of $51,017. The average family of four also spends $8,290 on health insurance premiums. So the bill I'm introducing today would save the median family of four approximately $1,237 annually. “ObamaCare is driving up the cost of health insurance premiums. The current structure of the tax code singles out a select few to pay this higher cost with no deduction. TFHIA is a good first step toward fixing our wrecked healthcare system because it would eliminate the largest inequity in the tax code, stand as good policy before and after the repeal of ObamaCare, and place extra dollars in the pockets of consumers who need it most.” To view the text of the bill, click here. Original Co-sponsors: Congresswoman Michele Bachman (MN-6) Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn (TN-7) Congressman Mo Brooks (AL-5) Congressman Paul Broun (GA-10) Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) Congressman Steve Chabot (OH-1) Congressman Tom Cotton (AR-4) Congressman Jeff Duncan (SC-3) Congressman John Fleming (LA-4) Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-1) Congressman Trent Franks (AR-8) Congressman Phil Gingrey (GA-11) Congressman Andy Harris (MD-1) Congressman Tim Huelskamp (KS-1) Congressman Richard Hudson (NC-8) Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-48) Congressman Jack Kingston (GA-1) Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) Congressman Randy Weber (TX-14) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-2) Congressman Ted Yoho (FL-3)
05.02.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to Democrat New York Senator Chuck Schumer’s speech on the Senate floor last night attacking King on immigration: "I'm flattered by Schumer's attempt to insult me, yet give me 100% of the credit for blocking his amnesty bill and agenda," said King. "But his speech was really an attempt to goad Speaker Boehner into moving amnesty on the floor of the House. Schumer knows, and must think Republicans do not, that moving amnesty would destroy Republican unity and our opportunity to gain the majority in the Senate this Fall. Schumer knows that, if John Boehner takes his bait and succeeds in passing any form of amnesty, we will not see the Rule of Law restored within the lifetime of this Republic. I repeat, we have to man the watchtowers 24/7."
05.01.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after welcoming the members of the Siouxland Chamber of Commerce to Washington DC for their 60th annual lobbying trip on Capitol Hill: Congressman Steve King meets with the Siouxland Chamber of Commerce. “I always look forward to the annual Siouxland Chamber of Commerce trip,” said King. “From the kickoff breakfast to the steak reception it is a great opportunity to hear from these smart, hard-working Iowa business leaders. We discussed important topics including education programs, transportation infrastructure, and promoting greater economic development in the Siouxland region. This group is like family to me and I could not be more appreciative of the work they have done and continue to accomplish. I will remain committed to doing my part in working with them to achieve their goals.”
04.18.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to ads by a pro-amnesty group supported by Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. These ads attack King’s recent comments on an immigration proposal to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which would grant amnesty to all illegal immigrants who lie in order to enlist in our Nation’s military. “I am under attack by billionaire Mark Zuckerberg because I am one of the few who will stand up and tell the truth about amnesty,” said King. “He wants amnesty because it would benefit his multi-billion dollar corporation, but I’m fighting to preserve the Rule of Law. Why would we reward people for breaking our laws? Rewarding law breakers produces more law breakers. Our Nation’s military is full of dedicated men and women and to disrespect them by rewarding illegal aliens with citizenship is an insult. I ask that everyone who agrees that illegal immigrants should not be rewarded for having broken the law stand with me.”
04.15.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in recognition of “Tax Day,” the official IRS tax filing deadline of 2014: “Our federal tax system is broken beyond repair,” said King. “Americans are hit too hard by taxes and our current economic crisis cannot and will not be solved with further tax increases and more government spending. I spent 28 years running my own construction business, and I told myself that if I was ever in a position to help abolish the IRS, I would do everything I could to make that happen. Enacting the FairTax is the best way to do that. The FairTax eliminates the IRS - and every other current form of taxation as well. It replaces the entire revenue stream with a consumption tax, which would lift the burden of taxation off American productivity and put the power to control how much Americans are taxed in their own hands. It is the best and most effective way to encourage business growth and positive, long-term economic performance by creating new jobs across the country and giving American citizens more control over their own paychecks. Instead of April 15 being a looming deadline for all Americans, let’s make it ‘just another day’ under the FairTax.”
04.10.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement in response to the passage of the Fiscal Year 2015 Budget Resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives today: To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, click here.
04.08.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following excerpts from his questioning of the witness, Attorney General Eric Holder, at the House Judiciary Committee hearing today on “Oversight of the U.S. Department of Justice.” The theme of King’s questioning of the witness was “Partisan, Political Persecution by Prosecuting the President’s Enemies.” To watch Congressman King’s full questions, click here. King: “I recall a previous exchange in a previous hearing between us and I believe I asked the question to the effect of, ‘Your priorities, are they directed by the President into your office or are you an independent department?’ I believe your response was generally ‘I’m independent. I don’t take direct direction from the President.’ That would be generally the response that I recall and I note you are nodding your head in relative agreement…” “…My question really is, have you prosecuted anyone in this administration? Have you impaneled a grand jury? Have you investigated anyone in this administration? Because it looks to me like those folks who are on the other side of the aisle are getting extra scrutiny, and those on your side of the aisle are getting no scrutiny.” Holder: *whew*
04.04.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after sending a letter to leaders of the House Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee regarding the Common Core State Standards Initiative. This letter asks that language be included in the FY2015 Appropriations Bill to restore state decision-making and accountability with respect to state academic content standards, including Common Core. There are 35 co-signers on the letter. Senator Chuck Grassley is the leader of a companion letter in the Senate. “Americans have spoken out in strong opposition to these national, one-size-fits-all standards known as Common Core. These standards are destroying our education system and the way our students learn. The decision about what students should be taught and when it should be taught has enormous consequences for our children,” said King. “Parents ought to have a straight line of accountability to those who are making their children’s schooling decisions and those decisions should be made at the state or local level, free from any pressure by the U.S. Department of Education.” To view the letter and list of co-signers, click here.
04.03.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following excerpts from his questioning of the witness, Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, at today’s House Agriculture Committee Hearing on the “State of Rural Economy.” To watch Congressman King’s full questions, click here. King: “I appreciate those extra opportunities out there but as far as advice to the EPA [Environmental Protection Agency] as you consult with them on the basis of the law on the Renewable Fuels Standard, as you look at that language, what’s your recommendation to them as they reconsider?” Sec. Vilsack: “I would say a couple things Congressman, first of all I am a strong believer in the Renewable Fuels Standard and I know it’s controversial, even in this committee, but I believe it is important to have for jobs, for stabilizing farm income, for reducing our reliance on foreign oil and for providing consumers choice and less expensive gas.” King: “With regards to the language in the act itself?” Sec. Vilsack: “So I think we need it. I think that the EPA has a very interesting situation where the basis of that standard was established on the belief that we would as a country continue to use more and more gasoline with more fuel efficient vehicles and with a difficult economy at times. That has not been the case. But since the EPA rendered its initial projections, gasoline use has increased and we wanted to make sure the EPA was aware of that because we think that could have an impact on what they ultimately decide.” King: “Well let me just borrow a little bit of our time and make my recommendation to the EPA then, that is that they review the data with current numbers rather than 2011 numbers and go back and carefully read the law and the directive that Congress delivered on that.” Sec. Vilsack: "Let me, if I can, Mr. Chairman, thirty seconds on the RFS. This needs to be perhaps noted in this committee’s history - Congressman, You and I agree. So mark that down. I think they should look at the current gas usage and I think they obviously need to read the law very, very carefully.”
04.03.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the Iowa House of Representatives passed House Resolution 123. The resolution requests that California repeal the unconstitutional law which limits the sale of eggs in that state. Governor Branstad has also joined a multi-state lawsuit against California’s action. “I appreciate the bipartisan effort of the Iowa House in taking another step forward in ensuring we protect both Iowa and American famers and producers, including egg producers, from California’s unconstitutional overreach,” said King. “The resolution stems from my amendment to the Farm Bill (Protect Interstate Commerce Act, PICA), that was adopted by the United States House of Representatives, but was not included in the final version of the Farm Bill. This was due to the aggressive Vegan Lobby’s - the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS), nationwide misinformation campaign against my amendment . Taken together, my work on the Farm Bill, Governor Branstad's work in joining the multi-state lawsuit over this issue, and today, the Iowa House's work in condemning California’s actions, Iowans have led the fight against this unconstitutional law. Working together we can restore the Commerce Clause of the Constitution.” The full resolution can be viewed here.
04.03.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following excerpts from his speech on the U.S. House Floor today in support of H.R. 2575, the Save American Workers Act of 2014. This act would redefine a full-time employee as one who works at least the traditional 40 hours per week. To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, click here. “…We are watching here as people have jobs where they get paid over time - 56 hours a week, 45 hours a week, and they’re getting paid time and a half over 40 hours because that’s the standard work week. Now we see ObamaCare has dropped it down to 30 hours and we are hearing that gap between 30 and 40 cancels insurance policies. It doesn’t cancel any insurances polices. Instead it gives people an opportunity to work, work longer, earn overtime and for the employers and the employees to keep their contract with each other…”
03.27.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in Favor of H.R. 4278, the Ukraine Support Act. This legislation will help ‘support the independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Ukraine, and for other purposes.’ “We should be strengthening our relationships with Ukraine,” said King. “The bill we passed today is only one step closer to where we need to be. We, as the Free World, must step up and support the people of Ukraine economically, politically and tactically. The President has been a spectator to Putin’s re-launched Cold War. We have to be prepared for a face-off with the Russians again.”
03.26.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after meeting with business and community leaders from Fort Dodge and Webster County in his Washington, DC office: Left to right back row: Jim Oberhelman, Wade Greiman, David Fierke, Dennis Plautz, Derick Anderson, Mark Campbell Left to right front row: Terry Moehnke, Mayor Matt Bemrich, Congressman Steve King, Kim Alstott, Rhonda Chambers “It is always a pleasure meeting with the Fort Dodge and Webster County leaders,” said King. “I was glad to discuss issues of importance to them including four lane Highway 20, the airport, and other new developments. I can confidently say they are leading the Fort Dodge area in the right direction with new economic development opportunities that are coming to fruition after years of tireless work and investment from the community. I am pleased to help in any way I can to ensure continued progress and success. Fort Dodge has excellent business and community leaders who I consider dear friends and I look forward to working with them in the years to come.”
03.25.2014	Washington, DC - Iowan Congressional, community, and civic leaders all gathered for two days of events culminating in the unveiling of the Dr. Norman Borlaug Statue in National Statuary Hall at the U.S. Capitol building. The celebration of the 100th birthday of Dr. Borlaug commenced with comments by Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, Iowa Lt. Governor Kim Reynolds, and Norman Borlaug Statue Committee Chairman Ambassador Kenneth Quinn. On Monday, the National Press Club hosted Iowans to a welcome reception and a dinner banquet. Tuesday held the main event and led to an inspiring statue unveiling ceremony. Speaker John Boehner, Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi, Senator Mitch McConnell, and Senator Harry Reid all took part in the ceremony. Honored guests also participated at the Capitol building, including Iowa Secretary of Agriculture Bill Northey, Benjamin Victor (statue artist), members of the Borlaug family, and the entire Iowa Congressional delegation. This event was a magnificent chance for Washington, D.C. to experience the great people of Iowa. “Today is National Ag Day and it happens also to be the 100th birthday of Dr. Norman E. Borlaug. What a fitting day to have unveiled his statue in the United States Capitol in Statuary Hall. He led a life so well lived, inspired so many of us, and saved as many as a billion lives with his wheat research. He went across many continents putting his head, hands and heart to work. It was a great Iowa day in the United States Capitol as we unveiled and celebrated the life of Dr. Borlaug. I look forward to taking young people by his statue and telling them the story of Dr. Borlaug so they can be inspired by his legacy just as I am,” said Congressman Steve King. “Dr. Borlaug’s innovation, no doubt, has helped pave the way for further ground breaking research. He advocated for developing and using biotechnology, and saw these crops as a vital part of the next ‘Green Revolution’ to lift those still suffering from hunger. His scientific work and his outreach to leaders around the globe are helping encourage a new generation of scientists looking to help feed the world,” Grassley said. “Now, his legacy and pioneering work will be on display to educate and inspire the millions who visit the United States Capitol,” said Senator Chuck Grassley. “For Dr. Norman Borlaug, a great American and a true son of Iowa, this honor of a statue in Statuary Hall could not be more fitting and deserved. His work was at the forefront of a 50-year period that has been described as the single greatest period of food production and hunger reduction in all of human history. I hope that this statue will serve as a reminder to all who pass by that one person really can make a difference,” said Senator Tom Harkin. “Dr. Borlaug personified the Iowa values of hard work and innovation and his fight against world hunger will continue to improve lives around the globe for generations to come. It is a great pleasure and honor to call Dr. Borlaug a friend and he will be forever honored with his Statue placed in National Statuary Hall. I have consistently strived to honor this great man, and the effort to honor Dr. Borlaug in our nation’s Capital so that generations of Americans can walk by and be reminded of the impact of Dr. Borlaug’s life” said Congressman Tom Latham. “Norman Borlaug’s legacy will not be determined by what he did during his brief time on earth, it will be determined by what we do together to expand his vision and stewardship towards this planet and the people who live on it. As Norman reminds us: our reward for our labor is not what we take from this planet—it’s what we give back,” said Congressman Bruce Braley. “From growing up in a small agricultural town in Iowa boasting a one room schoolhouse to saving one billion lives by fathering the ‘Green Revolution,’ Norman Borlaug is a true American pioneer. As someone who taught students about developing countries, the work of Norman Borlaug often played a key role in explaining how many of these countries were able to propel their economies forward. Dr. Borlaug is an example of someone who inspired younger generations to appreciate the incredible role that science and agriculture play in our everyday life. His Iowa roots, compassion, and ability to think big not only changed the world, but showed thousands of Iowans that they too could change the world. I am proud that people from all over the world who visit the Capitol can now learn more about Dr. Borlaug’s efforts to feed the hungry and promote peace,” said Congressman Dave Loebsack. An act of Congress in 1864 allows each state to provide two statues of notable citizens for display in the Capitol. In 2000, Congress passed legislation allowing states to replace the statues if a resolution to do so is approved by a state’s legislature and governor. The Statue of Dr. Norman Borlaug is available for viewing when visiting the Capitol Building inside of the National Statuary Hall. This event is part of a year-long series honoring Dr. Borlaug’s Life around the Globe, additional events can be found at www.wordlfoodprize.org.
03.25.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement today with his reaction to the Supreme Court’s oral arguments on the Sebelius v. Hobby Lobby case: To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, click here.
03.21.2014	WASHINGTON – The unveiling of a new statue in the National Statuary Hall Collection of one of the greatest humanitarians and scientists will highlight two days of events to honor Iowan Norman Borlaug, the Iowa congressional delegation said today. The statue unveiling is on Tuesday, March 25, at 11 a.m. (ET). Borlaug is one of only five people to have been honored with the Nobel Peace Prize, the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Medal of Honor. A renowned agricultural scientist, born and raised in Cresco, Iowa, Borlaug is often recognized for eradicating famine in Mexico, India and Pakistan during the mid-20th century with his development of a disease-resistant, high-yielding wheat. He is known as the Father of the Green Revolution and credited with saving more than 1 billion people from starvation in developing countries. “It was a privilege to get to know Dr. Borlaug personally. He was humble, engaged, and inspiring all at the same time. It is a memorable honor to help bring his statue to our Nation’s Capitol. Now millions of Americans can be part of celebrating a life so well lived. I look forward to the unveiling in the US Capitol and the continuing story of the greatness of Dr. Borlaug. He was an inspiration to me when I met him, and his story will soon serve as an inspiration to all who visit the Capitol,” Congressman Steve King said. “Dr. Borlaug’s efforts to advance biotechnology and agronomy vastly improved the levels of food security in nations around the world. He was an extraordinary man, with a brilliant vision, and the common sense and commitment to turn his dreams into reality. He inspired future generations of scientists and farmers to innovate and lift those mired in poverty, all while never forgetting his Iowa roots that started the journey,” Senator Chuck Grassley said. “Dr. Borlaug surveyed a world where starvation and malnourishment were rampant. And he had a vision–a vision for a Green Revolution,” said Senator Tom Harkin. “Dr. Borlaug’s mission to alleviate hunger and human suffering, improve quality of life around the globe, and foster peace will benefit people for generations to come. The statue to be unveiled and dedicated this week will preserve that mission in the halls of the U.S. Capitol and serve as a reminder to all who pass by that one person really can make a difference.” “To see the effort I started in 2009 to honor Dr. Borlaug come full circle is heartening. His lifetime of selfless contributions to mankind have earned him this honor in the nation’s Capitol Building. Dr. Borlaug's work has saved billions of lives across the globe from starvation, and I can think of no better example of a great Iowan to the millions of people who visit the Capitol each year," Congressman Tom Latham said. “Norman Borlaug had a combination of ingenuity, intelligence, and compassion that represents the very best of Iowa,” said Congressman Bruce Braley. “He improved the lives of billions of people around the world and I’m proud his statue will be representing Iowa in the United States Capitol.” “The world is a better place because of Norman Borlaug’s efforts to feed the hungry and promote peace. From growing up in a small agricultural town in Iowa boasting a one room schoolhouse to saving one billion lives by fathering the ‘Green Revolution,’ Norman Borlaug is a true American pioneer. I look forward to joining my fellow Iowans in honoring all of the work he has accomplished,” Congressman Dave Loebsack said. The statue unveiling will be held in Statuary Hall of the U.S. Capitol on March 25, which is also National Ag Day and the 100th anniversary of Borlaug’s birth. Events on Monday, March 24, include a media availability with the sculptor and Iowa political leaders, a reception for any interested parties, and a dinner banquet. Following the statue unveiling, which can be seen live on www.speaker.gov/live, a reception will be held in the U.S. Capitol Visitor Center. More information about the events is at www.iowaborlaugstatue.org The statue of Borlaug will join others in the collection that honors men and women who are, according to the 1864 law creating the collection, “illustrious for their historic renown or for distinguished civic or military services such as each state may deem to be worthy.” Each state was invited to contribute two statues to be housed in National Statuary Hall in the U.S. Capitol. The collection, now totaling 100 statues, is currently located throughout the U.S. Capitol and the Capitol Visitor Center.
03.21.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King (IA-04) and Congressmen Dave Loebsack (IA-02) today led a bipartisan group of 118 Representatives in calling on the Speaker of the House, John Boehner, to bring up legislation to extend the current Production Tax Credit (PTC) for wind energy, as well as the Investment Tax Credit (ITC). King and Loebsack have both been strong supporters of the wind energy industry and have fought to renew the PTC. Senators Chuck Grassley (IA) and Mark Udall (CO) led a similar bipartisan letter signed by 26 Senators to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee. “We are writing on behalf of the 80,000 Americans employed by the U.S. wind industry – representing jobs in all fifty states – to ask that you promptly extend the current law Production Tax Credit (PTC) and the Investment Tax Credit (ITC),” the Members wrote. “Like all businesses, the wind industry seeks certainty and predictability so that long term project decisions and investments can be made. Without that stability, we once again risk losing many of the jobs, infrastructure and investment that the wind industry has created. We urge Congress to pass an extension of the PTC and ITC under current law as soon as possible to avoid further layoffs and divestment.” A copy of the full letter can be found here.
03.14.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 4015, SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act. The Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) is the method for determining annual updates to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule (MPFS). The SGR formula was established because of concern that the physician fee schedule would not constrain increases in spending for physician Medicare reimbursement. “When the effects of the SGR growth restrictions took effect, it was clear to lawmakers the cuts would severely harm Medicare providers, and, as a consequence, reduce Medicare beneficiaries' access to care,” said King. “As a result, since 2002, Congress has voted 18 times to temporarily override the reimbursement reductions scheduled by the SGR by passing laws commonly referred to as ‘doc fixes.’ The bipartisan agreement will repeal the SGR, and avert a 23.7% cut to physician Medicare reimbursement payments. H.R. 4015 will update physician fee schedules while ensuring that no changes are made to the current payment system until 2018. In 2018, a new method of Medicare physician payment system called the Merit Based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) will be enacted. MIPS will reward physicians by incentivizing them for the quality of care they provide rather than the volume of patients they see. Most importantly, H.R. 4015, is fully paid for, and will not add a dime of new spending because it repeals the heart of ObamaCare - the individual mandate. This will save the American people billions of dollars while allowing Americans to keep the insurance plans they have, keep the doctors they have, and ensure the existence of America's elite medical community. Physicians in Iowa cannot continue to operate with the uncertainty of the SGR formula - their livelihoods are on the line, especially those physicians in small practices who are unable to expand their operations or make long term plans for their practice. Today marks another action that Conservatives in the House have taken to help increase the access and quality of care for our seniors while ensuring America's physicians are justly reimbursed.”
03.13.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement in recognition of “Imperial Presidency Week” in the United States House of Representatives. Congressman King supported two bills the House passed this week: H.R. 4138, the Executive Needs to Faithfully Observe and Respect Congressional Enactments (ENFORCE) of the Law Act and H.R. 3973, the Faithful Execution of the Law Act. To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here. “This week we have been focusing in the United States House of Representatives on Imperial Presidency. Barack Obama has violated our Constitution multiple times, he’s overreached on the margins of the Constitution multiple times. Some of those examples would be the DACA [Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals] language of the Morton Memos where he decided that he’s simply going to bypass Congress and he’s going to make up immigration law as he sees fit… …The clearest Constitutional violation is when the President delayed the Employer Mandate of ObamaCare. He has no authority to do so. The law says ‘shall be implemented in each month after December of 2013.’ The President just decided some months ago, ‘I’ll wait another year and see how it looks…’ …So time after time we bring this up on the Floor of the House, and we have passed two pieces of legislation this week. One [ENFORCE the Law Act] of them grants standing to Congress so we can take him to court and ask the Judicial branch to be the referee between the Executive and Legislative branch of government. The other one [Faithful Execution of the Law Act] requires Eric Holder, Attorney General, who has pledged to uphold the Constitution and the Law just like the President, to announce to Congress when the President violates the Constitution or decides not to enforce a law… …We are at a tipping point of Constitutional conviction here. The President is testing it beyond the limits of any President we have had. We’ve got to rein this in or our Country will fall apart from underneath.”
03.06.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement with his reaction to the situation in The Ukraine: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
03.06.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the announcement that Governor Branstad is joining the multi-state lawsuit against California is necessary to nullify AB1437, an act which attempts to regulate interstate commerce by placing requirements on producers in other states. Congressman King is the author of the Protect Interstate Commerce Act amendment to the Farm Bill. "So far, I have been taking the lead on this three year effort to restore the Commerce Clause of the Constitution and protect Iowa and American producers, including egg producers, from overreach by California. The best way was to pass a legislative fix, which I will continue to pursue. Litigation is now the quickest and most likely way to resolve the issue. I'm also hopeful that many states will file suit against California and pass resolutions calling upon California to repeal AB1437. This conflict can only be resolved in favor of Iowa and the states because California's law is clearly unconstitutional. The Constitution sets up a 50 state free trade zone thereby prohibiting individual states from regulating interstate commerce by granting Congress the exclusive authority to regulate it. California's law is a trade barrier – constructed for the purpose of protecting California egg producers from a competitive disadvantage. This law reaches beyond the borders of that state and attempts to assert authority over producers in other states. How can we negotiate free trade agreements with other nations if we allow California to set up trade protection for their producers and impose billions of costs on the other states? Litigation was inevitable, but it isn't the only option. Congress has the power and duty to regulate interstate commerce, protect producers in other states from California's laws, and restore free trade among the states. California should immediately correct its own actions, repeal the law, and avoid more egg on its face."
03.06.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following excerpts from his speech at “The National Security Action Summit” today. This event was hosted by EMPAct America, Breitbart, and The Center for Security Policy. “What happens to America if we simply sacrifice the Rule of Law because our sympathy is greater than our love for an essential pillar of American exceptionalism? …We need to look inward to what made us great – freedom of religion, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, the Rule of Law, and free enterprise… …We cannot sacrifice the Rule of Law with regard to immigration and think we could ever restore it again. If we allow any kind of legalization to take place that rewards people that are here illegally, we will not be able to restore the Rule of Law within the lifetime of this Republic… …This is a momentous time for us to have full-throated conservative discussions and send that message out all across America.”
03.05.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement announcing he will neither speak at nor attend the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) 2014, and instead will join with other notable conservative leaders at “The National Security Action Summit”. This event will be hosted by EMPAct America, Breitbart, and the Center for Security Policy, and will take place at The Westin Hotel in National Harbor, MD starting at 8:00 am ET on Thursday, March 6. Tickets are available for free. For more information you can visit HomelandThreats.com. Who: Congressman Steve King What: “The National Security Action Summit” When: Thursday, March 6, 2014 at 8:00 am ET Congressman Steve King will speak at 9:45 am ET Where: The Westin Hotel in National Harbor, MD 171 Waterfront St., National Harbor, Maryland 20745
02.27.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following excerpts from his speech at the 5 year anniversary celebration of the Tea Party Patriots: “I am so glad to celebrate the 5 year anniversary of the Tea Party Patriots and I want to tell you that in my years of slugging this thing out in the public arena, we always needed to have the grassroots rise up and save America from the Left. We are far from done. The Tea Party gets the blame for everything the left doesn’t like - I’m fine with that. It’s a pretty good sign that we’re doing the right thing together. We must continue to restore Constitutional rights in America and reaffirm that it means what it says, not just what somebody wants it to say. Ultimately, we are going to restore the American Dream and identify for little babies who are yet to be born the Pillars of American Exceptionalism. We owe this to the people that handed this Republic over to us to preserve, protect and defend it, and hand it to the next generation in better condition than the way we found it. That’s the American Dream. They are never going to defeat the Tea Party. We are stronger than ever before, we’re anchored in the Constitution, limited government, free enterprise, strong families, and Western civilization, which is the foundation for these things we believe in, so let’s go out there and continue this effort. God Bless America. Let’s save it together.”
02.26.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in recognition of Speaker John Boehner’s and other congressional leaders’ announcement of the unveiling and dedication date for the Iowa statue of Dr. Norman E. Borlaug in National Statuary Hall of the Capitol of the United States. This will take place on Tuesday, March 25, 2014, the 100th anniversary of Dr. Borlaug’s birth and National Agriculture Day. “Dr. Borlaug, with his wheat research, is responsible for saving a billion lives from starvation,” said King. “It was a privilege to get to know Dr. Borlaug personally. He was humble, engaged, and inspiring all at the same time. It is a memorable honor to help bring his statue to our Nation’s Capitol. Now millions of Americans can be part of celebrating a life so well lived. I am grateful for the efforts of the entire Iowa Delegation, Iowa leaders, and House and Senate leaders in bringing this statue to the Capitol building. A special recognition is due the artist, Ben Victor, who captured the essence of Dr. Borlaug. I look forward to the unveiling in the US Capitol and the continuing story of the greatness of Dr. Borlaug.” For more information about the statue and related events, please visit www.iowaborlaugstatue.org.
02.26.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following excerpts of his remarks and questioning of the witnesses at the House Judiciary Committee Hearing on “Enforcing the President’s Constitutional Duty to Faithfully Execute the Laws:” To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, click here. “It should be obvious to all of us by now that there is unlikely any law that we could possibly pass here in Congress that’s going to compel the President to enforce it unless it’s to his political interest to do so… …The President did a press conference on noon on a Friday, and he said, ‘well now I’m going to make an accommodation to the religious institutions [in regards to the Conscience Protection] and I’m now going to require the insurances companies, instead, to provide these services [contraceptives, abortifacients, sterilizations] for free.’ And he repeated himself, ‘for free’. And if you scour the rule written by Sebelius’ HHS there wasn’t a letter changed in that rule. The President had spoken orally in a press conference and the insurance companies lined up to do his will and his bidding. That was a chilling thing to witness as a sworn to oath to protect the Constitution Member of Congress… …What’s our recourse if the Legislative and Judicial Branch of government are disrespected to an equal level and the President is wrapped completely in the cloak of ‘I am President therefore I can do what I want?’”
02.12.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after President Obama signed an executive order today raising the minimum wage on federal contracts. The executive order raises the minimum wage from $7.25 per hour to $10.10 an hour. “The President has no constitutional authority to command a wage scale in every corner of America,” said King. “However, that is exactly what he attempts to do with his executive order on minimum wage today. If the President has the authority to order contract employers working for the federal government to pay a minimum wage of $10.10 an hour as opposed to $7.25 as set by Congress, then he has the authority to raise it to $20 or $50 or even $100 an hour. Where does this abuse of the Constitution stop? At this point our legal scholars, let alone the public, can’t keep up with the multitude of constitutional violations by this President.”
02.12.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement thanking the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for taking necessary steps to alleviate the shortage of propane supplies throughout the Midwest. They have utilized the emergency authority of the Interstate Commerce Act to ensure adequate propane supplies are getting to Midwest consumers by directing the Enterprise TE Products Pipeline Company, LLC to temporarily prioritize propane shipments through their pipelines. “I appreciate the smart decision made by FERC,” said King. “Their action should help stabilize the high market pricing for propane in recent weeks. This in turn helps ensure those in the Midwest will receive the adequate propane necessary to stay warm during these tough winter months and keep their homes and businesses running. This is an example of how multiple levels of government can come together to solve a problem in a timely manner. I would like to thank the entire Iowa Delegation in joining together for this effort on behalf of Iowans and Midwesterners.”
02.11.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting against S. 540, The Temporary Debt Limit Extension Act. This Act suspends the debt ceiling through March 15, 2015. “This bill fails the American people by both suspending the debt limit and increasing spending,” said King. “We are handing the President and Democrats exactly what they want - essentially a borrowed, blank check for the rest of the year - ‘no strings attached.’ The die was cast when last year’s shutdown was over. We already knew this outcome was coming. I have long said that I’d vote for a debt ceiling increase if the House and Senate passed a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution and send it to the States for ratification. We need to be on a path to balance. It is time to make smart decisions with the money of hard and smart working Americans.”
01.30.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after sending a letter to Chairwoman Edith Ramirez of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), along with Congressmen Tom Latham, David Loebsack, and Bruce Braley, requesting the FTC review the current spike in propane costs in the Midwest: Congressman Steve King: "The sudden surge in the cost of propane has forced families, farmers, and businesses into a tough spot. I am pleased the entire Iowa House delegation could come together in the interests of all Iowans. Each of us will closely monitor this situation and look for other opportunities to help." Congressman Tom Latham: “Hardworking Iowa families, farmers and small businesses are feeling the real economic pain of the skyrocketing costs of propane. It is hitting everyone’s bottom line and there must be assurances that no additional burden is being passed onto Iowans through influences other than true free market forces.” Congressman David Loebsack: “The sudden increase in the price of propane, combined with an extremely cold winter is wreaking havoc on many Iowans’ pocketbooks this winter. I am very concerned about the surge in prices and the reason for such a great disparity in propane prices across the country. This is another expense Iowans cannot afford and I’m doing everything I can to remove barriers to allow more propane supply to reach Iowa that will help lower prices.” Congressman Bruce Braley: “While enduring frigid temperatures, skyrocketing propane costs are forcing some Iowa families to decide between warming their homes and paying other critical bills. A thorough investigation of these extreme price increases by the FTC is essential to ensure Iowa families are not being unjustly burdened due to market manipulation or other unfair practices.” The letter to the FTC is available here.
01.29.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of the Conference Report on H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013: “This has been a long time coming for a final Farm Bill to be completed,” said King. “I am pleased that we have produced a 5-year Farm Bill for the people of Iowa and all Americans so they can have the agriculture policy predictability they deserve. The Fourth District is one of the leading agricultural production districts in America and I look forward to this bill helping continue that growth. However, I’ve had my reservations. The livestock industry was not treated right by Senate Democrats and I resolve to bring those issues to a proper conclusion. This was a good, bi-partisan effort and I am grateful for the hard work and efforts of Chairman Frank Lucas and my fellow Agriculture Committee Members. I was honored to be a voice at the table for Iowans throughout this process and I will continue my work to support sound agriculture policy moving forward.”
01.29.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following comments he submitted to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator, Gina McCarthy on January 28, to show his support for the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS): “I am writing to express my serious concerns regarding the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) proposed ruling regarding the 2014 Renewable Volume Obligations (RVOs) for the Renewable Fuel Standard Program (RFS). I represent 39 counties in Iowa, where billions of gallons of ethanol are produced every year-- the Congressional district with the most ethanol production nationwide. It is of particular economic importance that this industry be given due consideration, the importance of ethanol as a fuel source be accurately defined, and the negative impact of this ruling be carefully examined. Therefore, it is my responsibility to offer the following facts about ethanol production in America today. In Iowa, there are 41 ethanol plants that produced 3.8 billion gallons of ethanol in 2013; this accounted for 30 percent of U.S. output. There are 12 biodiesel plants with a rated capacity of 317 million gallons, which produced 230 million gallons of biodiesel in 2013. This amounted to 18 percent of all U.S. biodiesel output. The renewable fuels industry accounted for nearly $5.6 billion, or about 4 percent of Iowa GDP, it generated $4.1 billion of income for Iowa households, and supported 62,000 jobs in Iowa's economy. Since the enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA) of 2007, the RFS has had tremendous impact on both the agriculture and transportation fuel industry in Iowa. As a result, tens of thousands of jobs have been created, America's dependence on foreign oil has been dramatically reduced, demand for corn and necessary commodities has increased, and agriculture land values have increased significantly. Also, the RFS has served to conserve fossil fuels and keep carbon dioxide emissions to a minimum. One can thank the ethanol industry for reducing carbon dioxide levels by the equivalent of that emitted by 27 million cars. The proposed ruling in question would significantly undermine these positive achievements. The proposed 2014 standard is 3 billion gallons less than prescribed by law: an RVO of 15.2 billion gallons. The consequences of this step backward are estimated to be job losses as high as 45,000 nationwide. Such a blow to the ethanol industry will have the effect of decreasing market advantage over petroleum-based fuels. Furthermore, economic development throughout the Midwest, which has been driven by ethanol production, will suddenly slow. American capital was invested and risked as a result of the promise that the production of ethanol and biofuels through the RFS would be at the forefront of the future of America's domestic energy production in the United States - through 2022. The promise, stability, and certainty the RFS provides to the biofuels industry are paramount to the benefits it creates for all of America. For example, ethanol producers have managed to save the American taxpayer billions of dollars at the pump. Without certainty (and this ruling throws certainty into question) the economies of scale that allow for these types of savings will no longer be possible. I respectfully request that the EPA reconsider their proposed rule and reinstate the 18.5 billion gallon requirement for total renewable fuels. This dramatic and unexpected change would deeply damage an important energy industry for America. Thank you for your earnest consideration of this request.”
01.28.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement with his reactions and comments to President Obama’s 2014 State of the Union Address: To watch Congressman Steve King’s full remarks, click here.
01.28.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. This act would prohibit federal tax dollars from being used to fund abortions. Additionally, it requires insurance plans on healthcare.gov to display whether abortion procedures are covered in that specific plan. This bill passed with bipartisan support out of the Judiciary Committee before heading to today’s floor vote. “Life begins at the moment of conception,” said King. “Our most important responsibility is to protect innocent human life. I am committed to protecting unborn children from abortion, and preventing the immorality of funding abortion. This President promised that ‘under our plan, no federal dollars will be used to fund abortions.’ We now know that was a lie, and this bill corrects his broken promise. We should not be taxing Americans and forcing them to fund a violation of their religious freedom. The passage of this bill today is one more step toward restoring respect for the sanctity of human life.”
01.22.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following video statement to mark the 41st anniversary of the March for Life rally for those who came from Iowa to Washington, D.C. to stand up for the innocent unborn: To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, click here. “Forty-one years ago today the Supreme Court of the United States made, I believe, perhaps the most abysmal decision ever in the history of this country by concluding that there is a right to privacy that included ending the life of an unborn baby. Roe v. Wade coupled with Doe v. Bolton brought out a decision that said abortion was going to be legal under any stage of pregnancy for any reason. The most important right we have is the protection of life. Our human lives are so important, so sacred, they cannot be measured against anything else; in fact human life is the measure of which everything else is weighed. We have to protect the right to life for those who cannot protect themselves. My prayer is that we come together someday to celebrate the reversal of Roe v. Wade rather than the January 22 annual march that you are participating in today. Keep working, keep marching, keep speaking, keep writing and most importantly, keep praying.”
01.15.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting against the 1,582 page Omnibus Spending Bill - H.R. 3547, the Consolidated Appropriations Act: “This bill spends too much of your money,” said King.
01.15.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following excerpt from a radio interview with WHO News Talk Radio, “The Big Show,” in Des Moines, IA. This interview responds to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack’s comments on the King Amendment to the Farm Bill at the American Farm Bureau Federation’s annual convention in San Antonio: “There is only one piece of [state] legislation that my language affects: that's California's unconstitutional egg law... …These are all the same [objections] that Tom Vilsack said to me when we were in the Iowa Senate together... …So we've chased this all down, and we are trying to stop trade wars between the states... …These are just simply boiler plate objections raised by Secretary Vilsack… …No one has poked a legitimate hole in my legislation… …You know we've been playing whack-a-mole with all the misinformation for a couple of years now.” To listen to Congressman King’s full interview click here. ###
01.10.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 3811, the Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act. This act requires Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of Health and Human Services, to notify individuals whose information is stolen from the Healthcare Exchanges within two business days of the breach. “This Administration has continuously lied to the American people and has been anything but transparent,” said King. “Currently the ObamaCare exchanges pose the possibility of a breach in personal information of individuals signing up for ObamaCare. This bill simply requires the Secretary of HHS notify those individuals within two business days of a breach. The Administration is threatening to veto this bill, which increases government transparency, saying that it would create an ‘administratively burdensome reporting requirement.’ Americans’ personal information is at risk while enrolling in a website to purchase a mandated healthcare package they do not want. The least this Administration can do is notify these individuals in a timely manner so steps can be taken to avoid further damage to their personal identities. I voted for this legislation in order to protect Iowans’ personal information from the largest collection of private data in the history of the United States.”
12.12.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the House passed an extension of the 2008 Farm Bill by voice vote. This extension expires January 31, 2014. "I am pleased that the House passed an extension to the Farm Bill," said King. "With this extension we can provide continued predictability for our farmers and producers and make sure we do not have a dairy cliff. I am glad that we will be continuing the work already begun in the conference committee into the new year. I will continue to work diligently with Chairman Frank Lucas and the other conferees to get a completed five year Farm Bill to the President's desk in January 2014."
12.12.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after joining Governor Terry Branstad, Lieutenant Governor Kim Reynolds, Iowa Secretary of Agriculture Bill Northey and the entire Iowa Congressional Delegation in a letter requesting that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) hold a field hearing in Iowa regarding the EPA’s proposed lower Renewable Fuel Standards (RFS). The letter was sent to President Obama, the Administrator of the EPA, Gina McCarthy, and the Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack. “It is critical that the EPA and the White House Rural Council hear from Iowans and other Midwesterners on the benefits and importance of the RFS,” said King. “The RFS has been great for Iowa and great for America. It is the only tool that provides market access to ethanol and other renewable fuels so they can be sold in competition with petroleum. It strengthens our national security, decreases our dependence on foreign sources of energy, gives consumers lower cost options at the pump, and creates jobs for Americans. I will continue to show my unwavering support for the RFS and am glad to have joined with my colleagues to let the EPA know we want them to keep their hands off the RFS.” You can view the letter here.
12.06.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following excerpts from his remarks at a naturalization ceremony in Sioux City today: To watch Congressman King’s full remarks, click here. “America is a nation of immigrants, and so is every other nation, but we are a special nation because people came here for those rights that you see in your mind’s eye when you see the Statute of Liberty – God-given liberties. Our Founding Fathers identified them and they wrote them in the Declaration of Independence. The Declaration is the promise and the Constitution of the United States, which you have taken an oath to uphold, and I have as well, is the fulfillment of that promise.” “I celebrate this day, I cherish this day, and you will remember the date on the calendar as the date that you became now and forever a naturalized, full-fledged, American citizen.”
11.26.2013	Washington, DC - When the House reconvenes on Monday, December 2, Congressman Steve King (IA-04) will introduce the Court Efficiency Act and push for its immediate consideration in the House Judiciary Committee and on the House Floor. The bill eliminates the three vacant judgeships on the D.C. Circuit Court that Senator Harry Reid is attempting to fill by elimination of the long-standing filibuster. In addition, the bill adds one judgeship each to the Second Circuit Court and the Eleventh Circuit Court. Senator Grassley is the author of S. 699, the Court Efficiency Act, introduced in the Senate on April 10, 2013. Congressman Steve King: "The D.C. Circuit court enjoys the smallest work-load in the country, and the unique responsibility of reviewing matters pertaining to federal agencies. It is not at all surprising that given this Court's responsibility, the President would want to shore up support for his agenda there. Additionally, the fervor to fill these judgeships, which led to an unprecedented change in Senate procedure, obviously stems from a similar motivation amongst Senate Democrats. Given the enormous costs to taxpayers each judgeship entails, and the dubious political motivations behind packing the D.C. Circuit, I think it is imperative that the House act immediately to protect the integrity of the Court, taxpayers, and future litigants." Senator Chuck Grassley: “The D.C. Circuit ranks last in both the number of appeals filed and appeals terminated. The caseload is so low, in fact, that current judges on the D.C. Circuit have told me that if these seats were filled, there wouldn’t be enough work to go around. It only makes sense to move these seats where they are needed most and can be an efficient use of taxpayer resources. But rather than adopt a reasonable good-government approach, the Senate Majority has demonstrated once again that it is willing to do whatever it takes to achieve its political ends, in this case stacking the deck with judges it believes will rubberstamp key elements of the President’s agenda, including health care reform and cap and trade.”
11.22.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following excerpt from his remarks at the “Defend the RFS” event at which he spoke today, along with Governor Branstad, Lt. Governor Reynolds, Secretary Northey, and Senator Grassley. This event was to show support for the RFS and encourage Iowans to demand the EPA modify its proposal. “This {RFS} has been great for Iowa - great for America. It’s a national security issue; it’s an economics issue. According to the Verleger report we would see gas $.50 to a $1.50 higher if we didn’t have ethanol in it. So we have a lot of work ahead of us.” “I want to go back and carefully read the federal statute that created the RFS. I’m not confident that the EPA has the legal authority to do this. So we’ve got a couple of alternatives, turn the heat up, turn the pressure up, put the message in. If you’ve got a network out there across the country and in any other congressional districts, do that too.” “We are going to stand together on this. We’re going to tell them keep your hands off the RFS.” You can view Congressman King’s full remarks here.
11.20.2013	Iowa RFS Coalition Event to Urge Iowans to Take Action on RFS Proposal The Iowa RFS Coalition will host a “Defend the RFS” event at Lincolnway Energy to highlight the negative impact of the EPA’s proposal to radically reduce Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) levels for 2014. Iowa consumers, farmers and renewable fuels producers will be harmed if the proposal moves forward. Iowans will be urged to demand the EPA modify the proposal to uphold the letter and spirit of the bipartisan RFS law. WHAT: “Defend the RFS” Event WHEN: Friday, November 22, 2013 TIME: 1:00 - 2:00 PM CST WHERE: Lincolnway Energy, 59511 W. Lincoln Highway, Nevada, Iowa WHO: Governor Terry Branstad Congressman Steve King IDALS Secretary Bill Northey Lincolnway Energy CEO Erik Hakmiller Absolute Energy CEO Rick Schwarck REG VP of Sales and Marketing Gary Haer DuPont Industrial Biosciences Regional Business Leader for Americas Troy Wilson Iowa Corn Growers President and Lynnville farmer Roger Zylstra NOTE: A bus will provide speakers and media a brief driving tour of Lincolnway Energy and the neighboring DuPont Nevada Site Cellulosic Ethanol facility (under construction).
11.15.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced the 2014 Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS), Renewable Volume Guidelines (RVO) numbers today. The EPA has proposed new lowered RFS requirements as follows: 14.4 billion gallons to 13 billion gallons of conventional renewable fuel, and the total RFS volumetric requirement from 18.15 billion gallons to 15.21 billion gallons.“We should promote competition within the United States fuel industry,” said King. “The RFS is the only tool that provides market access so that ethanol and other renewable fuels can be sold in competition with petroleum. Today’s EPA announcement indicates a shift in the Obama Administration away from renewable fuels and in favor of foreign and domestic petroleum. Ethanol is the only fuel produced in large enough volume to compete with what has been a 100% petroleum mandate. It is disappointing the EPA has decided to lower RFS numbers and make the United States more dependent on foreign sources of energy when we have the means to produce cleaner, greener fuels right here in America. Through the passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (EISA), Congress promised the federal government would provide market access up to the RFS levels provided the renewable fuels industry produces the necessary fuel. At that time, the oil industry claimed the ethanol industry would not be able to produce the fuel necessary to meet RFS goals. They were wrong. This year the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is projecting American farmers will harvest the largest corn crop in history. We have sufficient supplies to more than meet all needs for corn, including supply for the ethanol market. For most of 2013, ethanol has been the cheapest fuel on the market, BTU to BTU, significantly driving down the price of gasoline. Today's EPA decision sends a strong negative message to the renewable fuels industry that has, so far, responded reliably to government and market signals."
11.15.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act of 2013. This act allows insurance providers to continue to offer all health plans currently available to any individual for the 2014 calendar year. “This bill is an effort to help the President keep his word,” said King. “And Lord knows he needs a lot of help.”
11.14.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement on his so called “administrative fix” for the false promise that Americans can keep their health care plan if they like it: “In the President’s remarks this afternoon he once again stepped outside the bounds of his Constitutional authority, this time regarding the failures of his prized legislative accomplishment -Obamacare,” said King. “It is unconstitutional for the President to attempt to rule by executive edict. The President has lied numerous times to the American people by promising them if they like their healthcare plan, they can keep it. He continues to pass the blame and execute modifications and delays that change nothing, and this ‘administrative fix’ is once again not the answer. Obamacare cannot be fixed – it is fundamentally flawed. The American people should not have to take the brunt of the President’s political posturing. He must abide by the Constitution and come to Congress, and this time I suggest he should come on bended knee.”
11.12.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after S. 893, the Veteran’s Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2013 passed by voice vote today. This act increases various forms of compensation for veterans to keep pace with cost-of-living effective December 1, 2013. “This bill is a reminder of how we can help those veterans who have sacrificed so much for our freedom,” said King. “Many of these men and women come home with service-related disabilities that cause both physical, mental and financial hardship. With this vote today we reaffirmed Congress’s ongoing commitment to America’s veterans. These brave service members, who put their lives on the line to secure our freedoms, deserve stability and predictability for their earned benefits. This is more than just an obligation of Congress, but a responsibility to provide the necessary benefits for our veterans and their families. We owe them our greatest respect and deepest honor; we would not have the freedoms we enjoy in the United States without them.”
11.08.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in regards to new data released on the rise of average health care premiums across the country and specifically within the State of Iowa. “Now that ObamaCare has begun to take effect, American citizens are seeing the consequences through increases in their premium costs,” said King. “The Heritage Foundation previously cited an objective total of these new costs basing the calculation on the lowest priced premium. However, recent data from Avik Roy, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, combines the average of the five lowest premiums per state to give a significantly higher premium increase. His data shows that Iowa has the 9th highest average premium increase after the implementation of ObamaCare in the United States. Iowans should expect their premiums to increase substantially more than previously anticipated. This runs contrary to what President Obama has been selling to the American people since early 2009.” You can view a map, from the Manhattan Institute, on the average price of premiums per state here.
10.12.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after House Speaker John Boehner named the House Farm Bill conferees: “I am thankful Speaker Boehner has appointed conferees to advance the Farm Bill process,” said King. “Now that conferees have been appointed in the House and Senate, it is time to come together to finalize the 2013 Farm Bill. I look forward to robust conversations with the Senate conferees and moving forward to reconcile our differences. It is time to give the farmers of America the five years of federal agriculture policy predictability they deserve by finally sending a Farm Bill to the President’s desk.” The following House Members were named as conferees: Republicans: House Agriculture Committee conferees:Rep. Frank D. Lucas of Oklahoma, Chairman of the House Agriculture CommitteeRep. Steve King of IowaRep. Randy Neugebauer of TexasRep. Mike Rogers of AlabamaRep. Mike Conaway of TexasRep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson of PennsylvaniaRep. Austin Scott of GeorgiaRep. Rick Crawford of ArkansasRep. Martha Roby of AlabamaRep. Kristi Noem of South DakotaRep. Jeff Denham of CaliforniaRep. Rodney Davis of Illinois Leadership conferee:Rep. Steve Southerland of Florida House Foreign Affairs Committee conferees:Rep. Ed Royce of California, ChairmanRep. Tom Marino of Pennsylvania House Ways & Means Committee conferees:Rep. Dave Camp of Michigan, ChairmanRep. Sam Johnson of Texas Democrats: House Agriculture Committee conferees: Rep. Collin Peterson of Minnesota, Ranking Member Rep. Mike McIntyre of North Carolina Rep. Jim Costa of California Rep. Tim Walz of Minnesota Rep. Kurt Schrader of Oregon Rep. Jim McGovern of Massachusetts Rep. Suzan DelBene of Washington Rep. Gloria Negrete McLeod of California Rep. Filemon Vela of Texas Leadership Conferee: Rep. Marcia Fudge of Ohio, Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus House Foreign Affairs Committee conferee:Rep. Eliot Engel of New York, Ranking Member House Ways & Means Committee conferee: Rep. Sandy Levin of Michigan, Ranking Member
10.03.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the House voted to pass two separate appropriations bills of immediate priority. The measures are H.R. 3230, the Pay Our Guard and Reserve Act and H.J. Res. 72, the Honoring Our Promise to America’s Veterans Act. “Time and again the House has voted to keep the critical parts of the government funded in light of the partial shutdown,” said King. “Today, we passed yet another two measures, this time to provide the necessary aid for two of the most vital components of our nation’s armed services - our National Guard and Reserves and our veterans. I am glad to see these measures passed today to give our National Guard and Reserves the assurance they need to continue to put their lives on the line in service to our country, and assistance for our veterans who have already sacrificed so much. It is time for the Senate to act and then for the President to sign these into law immediately.”
10.02.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting on three separate appropriations bills of immediate priority. The measures are H. J. Res. 71, the Provide Local Funding for the District of Columbia Act; H. J. Res 70, Open Our Nation's Parks and Museums Act; and H.J. Res. 73, the Research for Lifesaving Cures. "House Republicans do not want a government shutdown," said King. "We want a resolution reflective of the needs and priorities of the American people. The government is temporarily and partially shutdown nonetheless, but the House has consistently put offers on the table and the Senate has repeatedly refused to negotiate. The House acted to alleviate a few of the most pressing concerns today by passing three bills: one to open our national parks and museums, one to ensure funding for the District of Columbia, and a third for funding for research for lifesaving cures. The Senate should act on the House amendments to the Continuing Resolution to re-open the government. The Senate should go to conference on the Continuing Resolution to negotiate through our differences. Finally, in the absence of either of those responsible actions, the Senate should act on these bills on which both parties agree."
09.28.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of the House amendments to H.J. Res 59, the Continuing Appropriations Act of 2014, which included a repeal of the medical device tax as well as a one year delay in Obamacare. The bill provides necessary appropriations for all government operations with the exception of those funds necessary to implement Obamacare. The House passed this amendment by a vote of 231 – 192. “Today, I voted for the second time in two weeks to fully fund the federal government," said King. "This vote in no way causes a government shutdown; in fact, if this continuing resolution were enacted, a government shutdown would be out of the question. Now, the House has acted twice to insist that the President recognize the flaws in Obamacare, and act to prevent the havoc it will wreak on our economy. President Obama and Senate Democrats now have a choice: act responsibly to prevent a government shutdown and delay the implementation of Obamacare for one year, or shut the government down in an effort to save their disastrous healthcare law."
09.20.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H. J. Res 59, the Continuing Appropriations Act of 2014, which includes the text of the Full Faith and Credit Act as well as a provision that fully defunds Obamacare. The bill provides necessary appropriations for all government operations with the exception of those funds necessary to implement Obamacare. The House passed this bill by a vote of 230-189. “The American people understand the hypocrisy and injustice of the individual mandate as well as the disastrous effect the law will have on our healthcare system,” said King. “Currently, 57% of Americans oppose Obamacare. With this vote today, the House took a strong stand against Obamacare by passing a bill that would fund the entire government except for the new entitlements and onerous mandates contained within Obamacare. I offered this very same amendment in February of 2011, and I am glad that it was finally adopted by the House today. The largest chunk of Obamacare is set to take effect on October 1, and so now is the time to make this stand. The courts failed to correct the massive overstep made by the Obama Administration and the Democrat majority, so now it is up to Congress to prevent further damage. It is time to restore the doctor-patient relationship, create more opportunities for American workers, and remove the burden this law has created. It is now in the hands of Harry Reid and Senate Democrats to do what the American people are asking for – defunding Obamacare. The House has acted on a bill that will prevent a government shutdown and I will not stop this fight until all Americans are free from the bondage of this law.”
09.19.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting for H.R. 3102, the Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act of 2013. This bill makes necessary reforms to the bloated policies of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, a program formally known as food stamps). H.R. 3102 passed by a vote of 217 -210. “When we passed the agriculture-only Farm Bill in July, I was disappointed we were unable to include reforms to nutrition programs that would ensure stability for our economy,” said King. “As the Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight and Nutrition, I understand the importance of SNAP benefits for those eligible for aid and the need for stability for hard working farmers. SNAP was originally designed to offer aid to those who truly needed assistance. Unfortunately, it has turned into a bloated program with far too few checks and balances monitoring to whom the assistance is going. Participation in SNAP rose 65% from 2008 to 2012. During that same time, the total cost of the program rose from $37.6 billion to $78.4 billion a year. It is critical we get the growth of this program under control by ensuring that benefits go to only those who are in need. H.R. 3102 includes reforms totaling $40 billion in savings over the next decade, cracking down on the waste, fraud and abuse currently present in SNAP. My Democratic colleagues have long been for expanding the dependency class here in America. This bill provides temporary assistance to struggling families, but it also cuts out unnecessary spending and refocuses our limited resources on those truly in need. With passage of this bill, we have taken a step toward true reform and proper eligibility for SNAP programs. I am grateful for the leadership shown by Chairman Frank Lucas, and look forward to our continued work together on priorities of the Agriculture Committee.”
09.17.2013	The dishonest demonization of American agriculture is now, more than ever, poised to suck life out of our economy. On the other hand, Congress is poised to protect the millions of Americans who make their living putting food on our tables. But, radical animal rights groups are doing everything in their power to undermine that action with a dishonest propaganda campaign that should turn your stomach. The strategy of one group, the Humane Society of the United States (aka HSUS, or the vegan lobby) is obvious and played out as follows: When Californians voted to ban the use of certain cages for egg-laying hens, California egg producers were disadvantaged. So the California Legislature banned the sale of eggs not produced under these standards, thereby applying the will of the majority of one state onto the rest of the nation. This policy is called protectionism, and has failed throughout history. Such policies undermine the efficient system of trade we have always enjoyed, and the burden of regulation will drive food costs up. The U.S. enjoys free trade among the states. To ensure this is always the case, the Founders gave Congress the power to regulate interstate commerce. Simply put, California has never had the authority to ban the sale of any good produced in the U.S. based solely on the manufacturing or production standards of the state where it was produced. My bipartisan amendment merely clarifies and reaffirms this long-standing constitutional principle. Severely limited in scope, it has no effect on any state's right to regulate production within its own borders, nor does it nullify any federal animal welfare laws. "Photo-sympathetic" animal rights laws are not based on the scientifically, demonstrable well-being of livestock, nor are they based on food safety. They do not stand a chance in the legislatures of ag-producing states in the heartland, nor will they get any traction in Congress. Not surprisingly, animal rights groups are desperate to protect and extrapolate their victories in a few states. Please take their hyperbolic, hyperventilating statements like you might take your eggs, with a grain of salt.
09.17.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement to commemorate Constitution Day, marking the 226th year since the signing of the Constitution of the United States of America. King is a member of the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice and always carries a copy of the Constitution in his pocket. “On September 17, 1787, the Constitution was signed by 39 brave men who changed the course of our history,” said King. “This document both established the framework of American government and secured the basic, God-given rights that Americans enjoy today. I believe that God moved our Founding Fathers around like men on a chess board with divine guidance to craft this document. Today, we are seeing time and again how the Constitution is being pushed aside and overlooked when determining the course of America. I have placed my hand on the Bible and pledged my oath to defend and uphold the Constitution since first elected into office and I take this responsibility very seriously. I challenge all Americans to read the Constitution and reflect on the core values and pillars of American exceptionalism woven into it: that of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness and the sovereign expression of ‘We the People.’ As we celebrate today, may we never forget that the values upheld in the Constitution are what make our nation that ‘Shining City on a Hill’.”
09.12.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 2775, the No Subsidies Without Verification Act. This act ensures an accurate verification system exists before premium tax credits and cost reduction subsidies are dispersed to individuals who are qualified to receive premium assistance from ObamaCare. The bill passed by a vote of 235 – 191. “Buried inside just one document containing more than 600 pages of ObamaCare regulations was an announcement that the government would no longer need verification for qualified applicants who are eligible to receive premium tax credits or cost-sharing subsidies,” said King. “It is unreasonable individuals would still be able to enroll in a health plan and qualify for these premiums while never receiving the proper verification. What is even worse is the consequence of not verifying eligibility could equate to approximately $250 billion in fraudulent payments. Specifically, this legislation would prohibit applicants from receiving tax credits and subsidies until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies to Congress there is a program in place to verify eligibility for individuals who apply before granting them health insurance. These fraudulent claims will be stopped before they ever go out, effectively ending the pay and chase of fraudulent claims that plague our health care system today. This act fixes only one of the major problems that will become more prevalent during the implementation of the ObamaCare Law. This proposed ‘honor system’ is just another example of how individuals could ‘game the system’ and further waste the hard earned dollars of the American taxpayer. Almost four years ago, I began this battle against ObamaCare and will stop at nothing until we have defunded and fully repealed this job killing law.”
09.11.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in remembrance of the 12th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks: “Today is a day to honor and reflect on the lives lost amidst the attacks that took place on September 11, 2001,” said King. “America will never forget the tragedy and heartbreak that came on that September morning twelve years ago. May today be a time to remember those who lost their lives and pray for the loved ones they left behind, and a day to be grateful for the heroism and courage of the first responders and men and women in uniform who put their lives on the line for our safety and continue to do so every day. Amidst great tragedy, our great nation came together like never before to demonstrate that we cannot be shaken and that we are ever more vigilant. The powerful story of 9/11 and the resolve of the American people during that time of struggle will be known for generations to come. Today is also the one year anniversary of the attacks in Benghazi. It is important for our country to remember the four Americans who were murdered during the senseless attack on the United States consulate in Libya. Sadly, the fight against our enemies is still ongoing. May peace prevail and America continue to be a proud and strong nation.”
09.10.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after receiving the “Fueling Growth” award today from Growth Energy, a coalition of ethanol producers from across the country. This award is the ‘highest honor given to Congressional leaders who vigorously advocate for ethanol – America’s homegrown, renewable fuel.’ Congressman Steve King spoke after receiving the “Fueling Growth” award from Growth Energy today. “It is an honor to receive the ‘Fueling Growth’ award from Growth Energy,” said King. “It is a privilege to represent the 4th Congressional District of the nation’s largest ethanol-producing state and see firsthand the positive impact renewable fuels have on the economy. It is important that we help foster growth and innovation in our country’s energy industry and I am grateful for the leadership and dedication that Growth Energy has shown in doing so. I will continue to be a strong voice for the renewable fuels industry and for the producers in Iowa so that we can work together to create more job opportunities, lower gas prices, and greater energy independence to help strengthen America.” King Receives ‘Fueling Growth’ Award Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after receiving the “Fueling Growth” award today from Growth Energy, a coalition of ethanol producers from across the country. This award is the ‘highest honor given to Congressional leaders who vigorously advocate for ethanol – America’s homegrown, renewable fuel.’ Congressman Steve King spoke after receiving the “Fueling Growth” award from Growth Energy today. “It is an honor to receive the ‘Fueling Growth’ award from Growth Energy,” said King. “It is a privilege to represent the 4th Congressional District of the nation’s largest ethanol-producing state and see firsthand the positive impact renewable fuels have on the economy. It is important that we help foster growth and innovation in our country’s energy industry and I am grateful for the leadership and dedication that Growth Energy has shown in doing so. I will continue to be a strong voice for the renewable fuels industry and for the producers in Iowa so that we can work together to create more job opportunities, lower gas prices, and greater energy independence to help strengthen America.”
08.02.2013	The farm bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation for our nation, and it significantly affects the people and producers of Iowa. I am honored to serve on the House Agriculture Committee and to represent the interests important to Iowa farmers and producers since coming to Congress in 2003. As chairman of the Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight and Nutrition, I know that our next farm bill must give farmers the protection they need and include reforms to nutrition programs that will ensure stability for our economy. The road forward for the next farm bill has not been easy. Disappointingly, the House did not act on the 2012 version of the farm bill passed out of the Agriculture Committee, and a one-year extension of the programs contained in the bill was passed in the large fiscal cliff bill at the end of last year. I returned to Washington with high hopes that we would be able to push a bill over the finish line this year; unfortunately, a vote on the new 2013 version of a farm bill failed in the House on June 20. After that defeat, House leadership chose to bring a bill solely focused on agriculture policy to the floor, which passed on July 11. I was pleased that my Republican colleagues came together to pass this bill, but was disappointed the nutrition title, 80 percent of the total cost of the farm bill, was stripped out and will require a separate bill. Looking forward to future farm bills, it is important to provide consistency for farmers and producers in a cost-effective, responsible way. We must continue to provide a good risk-management system centered around crop insurance, and maintain successful partnerships between the public and private sectors to allow farmers to have a profit potential. Direct payments were eliminated in the bill recently passed by the House, and to a large degree producers are now only granted access to risk-management programs when they suffer significant losses. These types of improvements should be included in any future farm bill because it allows for predictability for producers and savings for Iowans and all taxpayers. In addition to offering stable policy for those who feed the world we must get a handle on out-of-control spending in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, a program formally known as food stamps). According to the Department of Agriculture (USDA), in 2008 the federal government spent $37.6 billion on SNAP. By 2012, the total cost of the program was $78.4 billion. When I first came to Congress in 2003, there were 19 million people on food stamps; today, there are more than 47 million. SNAP was implemented for a reason - to offer aid to those in need. In future farm bills, SNAP benefits must reach those who need benefits most, and not those who are eligible for the program through loopholes in the system. The authorizing bills for nutrition policy and farm policies were joined together for a reason. By separating agriculture policies from nutrition policies, conservatives lose leverage we have in pushing for reforms in eligibility determination for the SNAP programs. Going forward, it is my hope that House leadership will pull together the necessary support for a separate nutrition bill after the August recess, making it possible for the two bills to be joined together in a conference committee with the Senate. No other committee has offered the kind of savings proposed in the 2013 farm bill. The future farm bill should present stability for producers and restructure the nutrition programs in order to guarantee their effectiveness. Farmers are good stewards of the land, and we can assist them by maintaining a viable conservation title in the farm bill. The conservation programs offered in the farm bill should be included in any future farm bill. Iowans understand, as I do, that all new wealth comes from our land, and the farm bill reflects our priorities. To view original source, click here.
08.02.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting for the Regulations From the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, H.R. 367: "Today we took another step toward regulatory reform when the House passed the REINS Act," said King. "As a former small businessman, I understand firsthand the detrimental and costly burden regulations place on entrepreneurs. The REINS Act requires any major regulation from the executive branch to come before Congress before it becomes law if it has an economic impact score of $100 million or more from the Office of Management and Budget. This legislation will stop stifling regulations from adversely affecting the economy. Congress has ceded too much lawmaking power to Washington bureaucrats who are unelected and unaccountable, and I am pleased that for the second time, the House has passed the REINS Act, which will add Constitutional balance of power back into the regulatory process."
08.02.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting for H.R. 2009, the Keep the IRS Off Your Health Care Act of 2013: "The Obama administration's attempts to label the recent IRS scandals as 'phony' is dishonest and dangerous," said King. "The role of the IRS will expand even more as ObamaCare is implemented; nearly 50 different aspects of ObamaCare are now regulated by the IRS. This expansion of power comes as details are unfolding that the IRS has abused the American people's trust. The IRS is transitioning to new leadership and recent polls have shown that the majority of Americans have a negative opinion of the agency. Now is not the time to put Washington bureaucrats in charge of your health care. For years I have advocated the IRS be abolished and the FairTax, H.R. 25, should be enacted. My vote today is to stop the expansion of the IRS into our healthcare system."
07.29.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after speaking at the groundbreaking ceremony for the Adding Cellulosic Ethanol (ACE) project at Quad County Corn Processors in Galva, Iowa today: Congressman King speaks at Quad County Corn Processors in Galva, Iowa today. "It was an honor to speak today at the groundbreaking ceremony for Quad County Corn Processor's new Adding Cellulosic Ethanol project," said King. "This project has been three years in the making and the new facility will create more jobs and help sustain the economy. I have consistently said we should work to add value as close to the corn stalk as possible and that is exactly what is happening in Galva. They have found new ways to squeeze even more out of a bushel of corn and this is paving the way for new technology both here in Iowa and across the country."
07.28.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement to honor Iowan George “Bud” Day, decorated United States Air Force Colonel and pilot who passed away yesterday: Col. Bud Day hunting with Congressman Steve King in Iowa. “Col. Bud Day was America’s most decorated living hero," said King. "Bud received the Medal of Honor and every available combat medal. Bud served through World War II, the Korean War, and Vietnam. He was a POW at the 'Hanoi Hilton' and a bunk mate of John McCain’s. Bud Day survived a no-chute bailout of a jet aircraft, several wounds, and a half dozen other harrowing escapes from death. In spite of merciless and relentless torture at the hands of 'the V,' Bud Day did not break under the agony. Upon his release as a POW, Bud began a long career defending the interests of our veterans in court and in public life. Bud became a great friend of mine and many whom he inspired with his extraordinary human spirit and sense of humor. I have had many occasions with Bud walking the hills of Iowa with shotgun in hand, watching the dogs and puffing feathers into the air. It was the idea and inspiration of Bud Day that brought tens of thousands of people to Washington, D.C. to surround the Capitol for the first time in history to ‘make a recommendation to the Congress.’ It makes me so very, very sad to lose a man like Bud, no matter the years of life and service. But it’s now time to celebrate his life, pray for the Day Family, and marvel that America can produce such giants. Colonel Bud Day was America’s greatest living hero. He now joins the ranks of other giants in America's history. Let history remember him and may our children learn to know his life.”
07.24.2013	Matthew Boyle | Breitbart | July 24, 2013 President Barack Obama's White House Press Secretary Jay Carney joined House Majority Leader Eric Cantor and Speaker John Boehner in making an inaccurate attack on Rep. Steve King (R-IA) over comments he made about efforts to grant amnesty to illegal aliens who entered America illegally while they were still minors. In an interview with NewsMax published last week, King had pointed out that some minor illegal aliens are good people, but many are criminals too. "Some of them are valedictorians — and their parents brought them in," King said in that Newsmax interview. "It wasn't their fault. It's true in some cases, but they aren't all valedictorians. They weren't all brought in by their parents." "For everyone who's a valedictorian, there's another 100 out there who weigh 130 pounds — and they've got calves the size of cantaloupes because they're hauling 75 pounds of marijuana across the desert," King added in the Newsmax interview. "Those people would be legalized with the same act." The political establishment has seized King's comments as an opportunity to try to paint him as unfair to immigrants. King told Breitbart News on Wednesday afternoon in response to the attacks from the establishment that he thinks this is a sign conservatives fighting against amnesty for illegal aliens are winning politically. "You know when people attack you—in this business, when you're in this business, you know that when people attack you, and they call you names, they're diverting from the topic matter," King said in a phone interview. "You know they've lost the debate when they do that. We've talked about it for years. Tom Tancredo and I joked about it that that's the pattern. When people start calling you names, that's what confirms you've won the debate." Cantor, who is pushing amnesty for illegal aliens who fit the DREAMer description, rushed to attack King. "I strongly disagree with his characterization of the children of immigrants and find the comments inexcusable," Cantor said. Boehner seconded Cantor's attack. "There can be honest disagreements about policy without using hateful language," Boehner said in a statement. "Everyone needs to remember that." According to the Associated Press, Carney joined in on the attacks on Wednesday, calling King's comments "unfortunate." The major problem with the arguments made by those in the political establishment pushing amnesty, and their specific attacks on King, is that the facts back King up. Just last week, the Christian Science Monitor ran a feature story by Lourdes Medrano headlined: "Along key stretch of US-Mexico border, more kids running drugs." "On a balmy Monday afternoon, authorities at a highway checkpoint a few miles north of the US-Mexico border pull over a commercial shuttle for inspection," Medrano wrote in the lead of the story. "A teenage girl sitting inside appears rattled and, as it turns out, with good reason. Several bundles of heroin are weighing down her bag." That teenage girl and three of her friends ended up in the custody of Border Patrol, as they all "had heroin packets tucked in their waistbands." "This incident from April was the latest in a string of recent cases in Arizona where juveniles have been arrested trying to smuggle drugs into the United States," Medrano wrote. "While luring teens to act as drug mules for a few hundred bucks is not a new practice, the Tucson sector of the US-Mexico border – the nation's busiest – has seen an alarming jump in the past two years." Medrano is right. In fact, if Boehner, Cantor and Carney, among the others who have attacked King, did a quick Google search, they could find a flurry of news reports over recent months and years about how those young illegal aliens under the age of 18 are being used as drug mules. San Diego's 10News.com ran a story in March 2012 under the headline: "ICE: Number of Young Drug Mule Arrests Rising." "The number of children being arrested trying to smuggle illegal drugs across the border continues to rise, according to new numbers released by the U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement," 10News.com wrote. In fact, that local San Diego news outlet shows that President Barack Obama's own Department of Homeland Security's agencies are confirming what King wrote. Fox News Latino reported similar information from Obama's administration's own agencies back in January 2012. "Children between the ages of 11 and 17 are being recruited by Mexico's drug cartels to smuggle narcotics and work as spies, the Mexican press reported Sunday, citing information from the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE," Fox News Latino wrote. Obviously, if those children were not caught by law enforcement--drug mules often do not get caught--they would qualify for amnesty under the DREAM Act being pushed by Cantor and being implemented by Obama via executive order. The Associated Press, in March 2012, reported those same Obama administration ICE statistics and included anecdotal stories of young Mexicans under the age of 18 who are addicted to drugs and now selling them on behalf of the cartels. Drug dealing is not the only criminal activity some DREAM Act-qualified illegal aliens engage in inside America's borders once they are here. Jamiel Shaw, Jr., a young 17-year-old black male destined for Stanford University, was murdered by an illegal alien who would have qualified for amnesty under the DREAM Act. Shaw's father testified, in the House Judiciary Committee, just last month, about how the DREAM Act-qualified illegal alien killed his son in 2008 and that illegal alien now awaits execution on death row. Given the fact the Speaker, Majority Leader and White House Press Secretary all got their facts wrong in these attacks on King, King told Breitbart News "it looks like" it all part an effort by those in the political establishment to push amnesty. "I've never seen such lack of restraint on the part of the team of people that have been elected to lead us," King said in his interview with Breitbart, referencing Boehner's and Cantor's remarks. "The only thing that is logical is that they are seeing their dream of a component of amnesty slip away." King added that the leadership in Washington in both parties has "now been confronted with the reality and instead of accepting it, and addressing it, what they have done is just wiped out." "When I read their quotes, I have to believe they didn't read mine," King said. "They completely missed the mark. I don't yet know of anyone who has raised a logical argument against my statement." King added at the end of the interview with Breitbart News that "any of my critics out there should review the video, watch the video, and they should review the entire quote. And they will understand that what I said is objective, it's true and it cannot be logically challenged. If we can't deal with reality when we're writing legislation that sets the destiny of the United States forever, then this nation will eventually fail." To view original source, click here.
07.24.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting for H.R. 2397, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, FY 2014: "One of my major responsibilities as a member of Congress is to ensure the support of our military in their safeguarding of our nation and our liberty," said King. "The legislation I voted for today will protect our troops in the field by increasing funding for weapons, including $1.5 billion for equipment for the National Guard. The DOD Appropriations Act will sustain and reward our servicemen and women by authorizing a 1.8 percent pay raise, instead of the one percent pay raise requested by the President. It also dedicates $33.6 billion in funding to help our heroes transition when they return home, while making smart cuts from defense spending that will not affect military effectiveness. I respect and honor the men and women who serve in our military, and know that my vote today will assist in their safety and security."
07.17.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting for two bills that would delay both the employer and individual ObamaCare mandates; H.R. 2667, the Authority for Mandate Delay Act and H.R. 2668, the Fairness for American Families Act: "President Obama's executive action to delay the ObamaCare employer mandate to provide health insurance for employees was completely unconstitutional, but it should come as no surprise," said King. "If Obama wants to delay his own law, he is first required to come to Congress, the body the Constitution empowers to legislate. Today I voted to Constitutionally delay both the employer and individual ObamaCare mandates. He has continually abused his oath of office. In addition to his failure to comply with his own law, ObamaCare, the Obama administration's attempt to enact executive amnesty through the 'Morton Memos' is another example of the lawlessness of this President. If he refuses to enact the law that bears his name- the very legislation he sold to the American people, how can we expect him to enforce any law?"
07.15.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following video and excerpt from his speech after joining the DC March for Jobs and press conference today hosted by the Black American Leadership Alliance: To view Congressman King's full speech, click here. "We are here today to stand up for free enterprise, for opportunities for the American workers, for God-born, country national-born, and God blessed American workers. We are all American people here in this place. And there's no place in the world, no country you can come to and become of that nationality, except America. Let's keep it legal. Let's respect the Rule of Law, and let's have a smart immigration policy. Let's remember the price paid by those who went before us."
07.12.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after participating in a flag raising ceremony at the site of the former town of Herring, IA today: Congressman King participates in a flag raising ceremony at the site of the former town of Herring, IA. "The town of Herring is now a page in the history of southwestern Sac County," said King. "But today we commemorated and remembered the proud heritage of that community. It was a great honor to join with my friends and neighbors on the site where the residents of Herring constructed and erected a flag pole and proudly raised the stars and stripes to celebrate the ending of World War I on Armistice Day in 1918. This was to honor the sacrifices of the young Americans who had bravely served to protect the cause of freedom. In my days of running a construction business I dismantled and buried the grain elevator that was the last structure remaining in Herring. It was great to see that although the town is gone, the memories of the community are being preserved by the children and grandchildren of the original residents."
07.12.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after honoring Army Veteran Raul Macias of Sioux City, IA with medals replaced and military records corrected from his service years in the Army. The ceremony occurred at the American Legion of Iowa's 95th annual state convention today. Congressman King presents medals and corrected records to Army Veteran Raul Macias. "It is always a privilege to honor our veterans for their patriotism and deep devotion to this country," said King. "Honoring Raul Macias in front of his fellow veterans at the American Legion of Iowa State Convention today was no exception. Obtaining his medals and corrected records is a small way to demonstrate my gratitude for his service and show him the respect he deserves." Medals to be awarded: Army Achievement Medal w 1 Bronze Oak Leaf Cluster (correction)Army Good Conduct Medal (correction)National Defense Service Medal (replaced)Army Service Ribbon (replaced)Overseas Service Ribbon (replaced)Sharpshooter Badge w Grenade Bar (replaced)Marksman Badge w Auto Rifle Bar (correction)Army Lapel Button (replaced)Patches (added by veteran)
07.12.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (IA-04) released the following statement after his amendment to the FY2014 Energy and Water Appropriations Act was adopted. The amendment prohibits the US Army Corps of Engineers from dumping dredged spoil from shallow water habitat into the Missouri River. "Sediment dumping, a practice that is detrimental to both environmental and flood control interests along the river, should not be available to government entities like the Corps of Engineers who should be held to an equal or higher standard than private parties," said King. "Iowans, individuals and agricultural production businesses are limited in their ability to add nutrient-containing soil to the river, and the Corps should be subject to the same limitation. I am pleased the House adopted this legislative change and I look forward to continuing the conversation about the river with Governor Branstad, the Corps, stakeholders of the river, and the Appropriations Committee all of whom are working with me in a productive manner. Now that the House has rejected this method it's time for the states to introduce the same. This amendment highlights the inappropriate priorities for river management. Unfortunately, last year the federal government spent $70 million on habitat recovery and construction for species such as the pallid sturgeon. As part of construction of that habitat, the Corps dumps millions of cubic yards of soil into the river. The current priorities do not serve the interest of Iowans or the federal government."
07.11.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 (FARRM): "I am pleased my Republican colleagues in the House came together to pass a Farm Bill today," said King. "FARRM provides certainty to farmers and producers by being cognizant of our current fiscal situation, saving almost $20 billion over the life of the bill and ending direct payments to farmers. While I am disappointed the Farm Bill that passed the House today did not contain changes to current nutrition policy, I am hopeful that House Leadership will bring a nutrition bill to the Floor soon so we have the chance to make necessary reforms to bloated nutrition policies. I want to thank Chairman Frank Lucas and my colleagues on the House Agriculture Committee who fought for passage of this bill. I look forward to our continued work together on agriculture policy this year."
07.09.2013	Todd Beamon & Kathleen Walter | NEWSMAX | July 9, 2013 Congress should not address comprehensive immigration reform until there's a new president of the United States, Rep. Steve King tells Newsmax TV. "Congress does not have an obligation to resolve the issue of the 11 million to 33 million people who are here illegally," King, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, tells Newsmax in an exclusive interview. "They came here on their own. They came here to live in the shadows. "There's no moral calling for us to solve the problem that they created for themselves," he adds. "They can easily solve it just by returning to the country where they can live legally." The GOP-controlled House will hold a special conference on immigration on Wednesday. King forced the closed-door strategy session by obtaining signatures from fellow House members. Last month, King hosted a six-hour marathon news conference on Capitol Hill to protest the pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants that was included in the sweeping reform legislation later approved on a 68-32 vote by the Senate. The bill was sent to the House. "I hope we get to this tomorrow in the special conference in such a way that members are in a position where they have to articulate their positions and they'll listen to others," King tells Newsmax of the strategy session. "If you legalize people that are here illegally, that means that it is a path to citizenship. "Eventually, those folks that are rewarded with the objective of their crime will be voting," he says. "They will have the measure of citizenship — and we can get to that piece, maybe we can understand then, as a group, that there's nothing in this for Republicans, Independents, Americans. "It isn't good for the American people. The only people in America who are beneficiaries of such a policy would be elitists, political power-brokering Democrats and those who hire illegals. Other than that, there's nothing in it for Americans. "There's no reason for us to do this — and we have no obligation, no moral obligation, to bring people out of the shadows," King adds. "They came here to live in the shadows. I suggest we enforce the law we have and otherwise let them have what they came here for, which is to live in the shadows." The strategy session is to be led by House Speaker John Boehner, who has said he will not bring up the Senate's immigration bill for a vote, given strong opposition among the Republican conference. Boehner said on Monday that the House would develop its own immigration overhaul plan. King hopes the Speaker honors his pledge. "I'd like to take it off the table — and I'd like to see leadership make a statement that we're not going to legalize people that are here illegally," King tells Newsmax. "We're going to take up the important business of the American people — and a lot of that is oversight over this Obama administration that refuses to enforce the law. That's where we need to go. I want to restore the rule of law and I don't want to grant amnesty." No matter how any possible immigration legislation might make it to the House floor — in pieces, as the Judiciary Committee supports, or as one comprehensive bill — King says it should not happen. "If it comes to the floor, it will be brought to the floor with the votes to pass it." He notes that the committee's bill includes provisions for strong border security, empowering local governments to enforce immigration laws, for instance. "Any vehicle that we send over to the Senate is potentially a conference-able bill — and if we send that over to the Senate, you know [Senate Majority Leader] Harry Reid can just put a little bit of language in there that guts it or actually strikes it all out, put in the Senate's Gang of Eight amnesty bill and send it back to us or insist on a conference," King suggests. "There's no reason for us to be vulnerable on losing the rule of law over the idea that the Senate's never going to pass anything that fails to legalize people that have broken the law. The president's not going to sign anything that doesn't give him his political objective — and the president don't enforce the law, so we cannot do business with a president who will not honor his own oath of office." King continued his attack on President Barack Obama over immigration, reflecting on recent developments on Obamacare. "The president's not going to enforce the law; he's made that clear. Even with Obamacare — the bill with his own name on it and his own signature on it — he's decided he can amend his own bill by simply sending a memo out posting it on a website. "That's appalling to me from a constitutional perspective," King adds, "and I can't do business with a man who is no more trustworthy than that." To view original source, click here.
07.09.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after speaking at the Annual Soy Legislative Education and Information Forum, sponsored by the American Soybean Association, earlier today: Congressman Steve King delivers remarks at the Annual Soy Legislative Education and Information Forum at the Washington Court Hotel. "It was an honor to speak at the Annual Soy Legislative Education and Information Forum today," said King. "The good people in attendance understand what I know - all new wealth comes from the land. Farmers also know that there are often hard times with agriculture, but those same farmers need the predictability that comes with a five year Farm Bill in order to plan for their future. I am committed to working with Chairman Lucas, my colleagues on the House Agriculture Committee, and all other supporters of agriculture to get a Farm Bill to the House Floor yet again, and see it pass the House and to the President's desk for his signature."
07.03.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced it would not enforce ObamaCare's employer mandate until 2015. The employer mandate, which requires businesses to provide health insurance for their employees or pay a penalty, was scheduled to go into effect at the beginning of 2014. The Obama Administration made the announcement yesterday via a blog post by the Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy at the Treasury Department on Treasury.gov. "If President Obama wants to make changes to ObamaCare, he must come to Congress," said King. "Two years ago, the Obama Administration, through a memo from a Homeland Security Department bureaucrat, declared it would not enforce our nation's immigration laws. Now the Obama Administration, through a blog post by an Assistant Secretary in the Treasury Department, is declaring it won't even enforce its own health care law on employers. We live in a Constitutional Republic. We are a nation governed by laws written by Congress, not memos and blog posts written by bureaucrats. Congress has made changes to ObamaCare before. Since its inception, Congress has enacted at least seven different bills repealing or defunding at least eight different ObamaCare provisions. And while the President and his allies have criticized the House's repeated votes to repeal, defund, or delay aspects of ObamaCare, yesterday's action by the Obama Administration shows that the House's actions have been rooted in the universal recognition of the real-world effects his disastrous health care law is having and will continue to have on businesses and everyday Americans. While this temporary bailout for employers will delay some of the job-killing effects of the President's health care law, it will do nothing to provide relief for everyday Americans who are experiencing spikes in their health insurance costs. The law requires ObamaCare's employer mandate to be implemented in each month after December 31, 2013. President Obama has no constitutional authority to amend his own bill. He has no constitutional authority to simply waive the law. No matter Obama's determination to suspend his own law, only Congress can do so."
07.03.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement to honor the 237th celebration of the birth of our nation: "This Independence Day we are faced with great challenges, but we can stand united in the face of adversity just as we have proven in the past," said King. "Our Founding Fathers asserted our independence over tyranny and established the Rule of Law as the driving force governing our great nation. The Rule of Law is not only the underpinning of liberty in the United States; it is the foundation of freedom for the world. This holiday, may we hold our families closer and remember these principles that guide us in order to preserve our great nation."
06.28.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting for H.R. 1613, Outer Continental Shelf Transboundary Hydrocarbon Agreements Authorization Act, and H.R. 2231, the Offshore Energy and Jobs Act. H.R. 1613 would put into effect the United States' recent agreement with Mexico governing energy exploration, development, and cost-sharing along the maritime border in the Gulf of Mexico. H.R. 2231 would remove many of the obstacles created by the Obama Administration that are blocking energy exploration here in America. "This week presented a true contrast of visions between President Obama and House Republicans," said King. "The week began with President Obama proposing costly new regulations that will kill jobs, increase energy costs, limit American-made energy production, and increase our reliance on foreign energy. The week ended with House Republicans showing the way forward for more robust energy sector, more job creation, cheaper energy costs for consumers, and stronger energy security for America. I'm hopeful the American people will take note of the difference between House Republicans and the President. I'm confident our 'all-of-the-above' approach will win out over the President's pessimistic plan for an energy-poor America."
06.27.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the Senate voted to pass S. 744, the Gang of Eight's 1,200 page immigration reform legislation. The final vote was 68 - 32. "This artificial victory for the Senators in the Gang of Eight marks a very disappointing day for our country," said King. "There are absolutely no benefits for Americans in this bill. It will not secure our nation's borders; it will make it harder to do so. It will incentivize employers to hire non-citizens instead of citizens, and contains dozens of pet projects added to the bill to buy extra votes. Welfare benefits will be guaranteed for illegal immigrants, and wages for American citizens will decrease as the number of guest workers doubles and the number of immigrants granted lawful permanent residency triples. The bill is, in many ways, a repeat of the 1986 Reagan Amnesty bill - which, as we know now, failed to accomplish the many promises in that bill. Seventy percent of Republican Senators voted no, which means no momentum for amnesty in the House, even with border security. The bill does not promote or ensure any of the principles that we know will ensure a safer and more stable nation. Those who voted for this bill sacrificed the Rule of Law for a meaningless political trophy. Now, we are left with a choice in the House. Conservatives who truly understand the direction that our nation is headed must lead our conference, and prove that the pillars of American exceptionalism will not collapse."
06.26.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled against key provisions in Proposition 8 and the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) in the case United States v. Windsor: "I am disappointed in the Court's ruling today because the American people should hold the power to determine marriage policy, not the Supreme Court," said King. "I believe DOMA meets all constitutional standards and I am disappointed that a technical, standing issue means that gay marriage is legal in California despite the will of the voters who enacted Proposition 8. It is important to realize that the Supreme Court intentionally chose not to find a constitutional right to marry anyone you choose, whether same-sex, or otherwise. The definition of marriage is not redefined this day. Legally speaking, states are now the sole body responsible for identifying legal marriages. Thirty-eight states to date have chosen to identify only traditional marriage. The attempt to redefine marriage will not change the fact that limited government should be responsible for making this decision, and that marriage marks the sacred union of one man and one woman."
06.25.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after congratulating Maison Lebeck of Audubon, Iowa on winning the 2013 Congressional Art Competition for the Fourth District of Iowa. Lebeck's artwork is a pencil drawing of an old time locomotive entitled, "Train." Her artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year alongside the winning selections from other Congressional Districts across the country. Each winner is given airfare for two to visit Washington, DC for an awards ceremony and become eligible to receive a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. Lebeck plans to continue to pursue her love of drawing well into her future. Congressman Steve King with Maison Lebeck in his DC office today. Her artwork, "Train" is now on display in the U.S. Capitol. "I am pleased to congratulate Maison Lebeck on her achievement of winning this year's Congressional Art Competition," said King. "I am impressed by the talent and hard work that is portrayed in Maison's drawing and her drive to continue with her creative talent. I look forward to being able to see her art work hanging in the Capitol all year." Congressman King sponsors the Congressional Art Competition each spring, and the contest is open to all Fourth District high school students. Any students or schools interested in participating in next year's Congressional Art Competition should contact Jeremy Davis in Congressman King's Ames office at 515-232-2885 for additional information.
06.24.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the Senate invoked cloture on the Corker-Hoeven amendment to S. 744, the Senate's Gang of Eight Comprehensive Immigration Reform Bill by a vote of 67-27. "The Senate just invoked cloture on a 1,200 page amendment to a bill that not even one Senator has had the time to fully digest," said King. "I heard the debate firsthand on the Senate floor today. This Corker-Hoeven amendment promises border security soon and legalization immediately thereafter- but it's just not true. Amnesty mercenaries are both teasers and appeasers. The trigger mechanism within this amendment should not be trusted by the American people. Included within it is an exception that will allow the Secretary of Homeland Security to proceed with amnesty after ten years regardless of implementation of any border security measures. The House now stands at a dramatic crossroads. It will be up to conservative members who stand for the Rule of Law to defend our future. Speaker Boehner has given his word that he will block any immigration policy that does not have the majority support of the House Republican Conference. I will not allow this amendment to destroy the Rule of Law."
06.21.2013	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after hosting a six hour press conference focused on immigration with many other Members of Congress, Senator Cruz, and other special guests: To watch the immigration press conference opening statement, click here. "We are here today to have what I think will be the longest press conference, maybe in the history of the United States Congress," said King. "The reason for this is because there's been an accelerated debate that has moved through to the United States Senate to move an immigration policy that I believe is at its heart and core, amnesty. I've always believed that was a mistake. In 1986 it was a mistake; it would be a mistake today. So we want to make sure that the American people understand the components of this debate -- the politics of it, and the policy of it -- and have an opportunity to weigh in to each one of us, to Members of the House and to the Members of the Senate."
06.21.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the Corker amendment to S. 744, The Senate's Gang of Eight Comprehensive Immigration Reform Bill. The 1,190 page Corker amendment was unveiled this afternoon and is expected to be voted on at 5:30pm on Monday. "The Corker amendment is full blown amnesty," said King. "Its border security provisions will never be enforced by the Obama Administration. No Senator should vote for this amendment, and no citizen should be confused about what it does. It does not protect our border, it does not require border security before amnesty can take place, and it does not restore the Rule of Law to the abysmal Gang of Eight bill. Even if the Corker amendment is adopted, the Gang of Eight bill will remain 'the always is, always was and always will be amnesty act.' The trigger mechanism within the amendment is not to be trusted- it includes an exception that allows the Secretary of Homeland Security to proceed with amnesty after ten years regardless of implementation of any border security measures. Further, the amendment allows the Secretary to grant 'registered provisional immigrant' status upon commencement of the border security strategy. Registered provisional immigrant status is a form of legalization that allows illegal aliens to work, affords them a social security number and a passport, and allows them to legally bring in their relatives. Even worse, the amendment adds additional amnesty provisions not in the underlying bill that allow future visa overstayers to become legal residents- amnesty in perpetuity."
06.20.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King, the Chairman of the Department Operations, Oversight, and Nutrition Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House voted down H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act today. King voted in favor of the legislation. "I am extremely disappointed, especially for all the people who put in so much work the past two years in the farm bill," said King. "I am disappointed for the taxpayers and for America. I will continue my work with Chairman Lucas and other agriculture leaders in Congress, and reassess. I am hopeful we will find a path forward."
06.18.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after meeting with the Carroll Area Development Corporation today: Congressman King with the Carroll Area Development Corporation today in his Washington, DC office. "As always, I was happy to meet with the Carroll Area Development Corporation to discuss matters of importance to their community," said King. "It was beneficial to hear from the officials from Carroll about the important issues facing their community. Several issues were discussed in the meeting, including the impact of various regulations tied to the Clean Water Act and the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) program. It was great to see how businesses and local government work to strengthen the Carroll economy. I look forward to meeting with these leaders each year."
06.18.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King announced today that he will hold a press conference on Wednesday, June 19, from 9:00AM-12:00PM ET and 2:00PM-5:00PM ET on the House "Egg," the east lawn of the Capitol across from the Library of Congress. The event is free and open to the public. "Border security, Rule of Law Members of Congress are unlikely to get a full debate inside the halls of Congress," said King, "So we are taking the debate outside it's halls." Who: Members of Congress, Invited Special Guests What: Immigration Press Conference When: Wednesday, June 19, from 9:00AM-12:00PM ET and 2:00PM-5:00PM ET Where: The House "Egg," the east lawn of the Capitol across from the Library of Congress ### RENCE AT THE CAPITOL ** Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King announced today that he will hold a press conference on Wednesday, June 19, from 9:00AM-12:00PM ET and 2:00PM-5:00PM ET on the House "Egg," the east lawn of the Capitol across from the Library of Congress. The event is free and open to the public. "Border security, Rule of Law Members of Congress are unlikely to get a full debate inside the halls of Congress," said King, "So we are taking the debate outside it's halls." Who: Members of Congress, Invited Special Guests What: Immigration Press Conference When: Wednesday, June 19, from 9:00AM-12:00PM ET and 2:00PM-5:00PM ET Where: The House "Egg," the east lawn of the Capitol across from the Library of Congress ###
06.15.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after honoring Vietnam War Veteran Robert Rohlfsen of Early, IA, with medals he had not previously received for his service. Rohlfsen served in the Army as a pilot and received the rank of Warrant Officer. Congressman King presents Vietnam War Veteran Robert Rohlfsen with his Army Medals today. "Today I was reminded of the strength and courage that our veterans exemplify," said King. "Robert Rohlfsen said he received these medals in honor of 'those who were not as lucky as he was.' He is an example of the selfless character our veterans exhibit each day and is a great reminder of why they deserve our utmost respect and gratitude." Medals to be awarded: NOTE: "Correction" means that the Army Review Board corrected the veteran's military record to include the award. "Replaced" means Congressman King's office replaced the award for the veteran. The awards are listed below: Correction: Distinguished Flying CrossCorrection: Bronze Star MedalCorrection: Air Medal w Numeral 58Replaced: National Defense Service MedalReplaced: Vietnam Service Medal w/1 Bronze Star Attachment (upgraded to 4 stars)Correction: Vietnam Service Medal w/4 Bronze Star AttachmentsCorrection: Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross w Palm Unit Citation (This foreign award is not provided by the U.S. Army)Replaced: Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon w/1960 DeviceCorrection: Army Aviator Badge
06.14.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting for H.R. 1960, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014. The bill authorizes our national defense priorities for the upcoming fiscal year. The bill passed by a vote of 315-108. "In these times of fiscal restraint, we must continue to prioritize a strong national defense, and we must make the tough choices within our defense budget to make sure we are doing all that we can within our limited resources to secure this nation," said King. "This bill meets that test. It provides the needed support, funding, and protections for our troops and their families both during and after their service. It ensures that nothing will be done to weaken our military's training requirements, and it includes tough new measures to combat sexual assault within the military. I'm also particularly pleased to support the bill's additional funding to support the National Guard, which will help our guardsmen in Iowa. The bill also includes provisions to address domestic threats, while still providing for strong privacy and constitutional protections for American citizens. Finally, the bill provides strong strategic guidance and oversight for a number of important foreign policy issues, addressing national security interests in Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, Syria, and North Korea, among others, and continues to address the concerns stemming from the attack on our embassy in Benghazi on September 11, 2012. This year's NDAA lays out out an agenda that will serve our country's national security interests well in the year ahead, and I was pleased to see it passed with strong support."
06.06.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after his amendment to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act passed in a bipartisan fashion in the House today. The amendment prohibits any funding from being used by the Obama Administration to implement amnesty by executive decree. Over the past two years, President Obama, Secretary Janet Napolitano, and ICE Director John Morton have attempted to enact amnesty through prosecutorial discretion, deferred action, and lax enforcement policies. These policies are outlined in a series of memos that are specifically identified by the King Amendment. One court has already spoken and concluded that these actions are unconstitutional. "Today, the House voted 224 to 201 to prohibit the Obama Administration from implementing executive amnesty through the 'Morton Memos,' said King."Bipartisan support for my amendment is the first test of the 113th Congress in the House of Representatives on immigration. My amendment blocks many of the provisions that are mirrored in the Senate's 'Gang of Eight' bill. If this position holds, no amnesty will reach the President's desk."
06.06.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following in response to the White House's statement on the passage of the King amendment today to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act. The amendment prohibits funding from being used to illegally implement amnesty by executive decree. "The President's executive amnesty runs 'contrary to our most deeply held values as Americans' which include the Rule of Law and our Constitution," said King. "The President has acted in a lawless fashion, violated his own oath, and now insists Congress conform to his partisan, political perversion of the Rule of Law. Instead, the House rejected his executive amnesty in a bipartisan fashion. A federal court will likely soon issue a final ruling as well. The immigration enforcement provisions my amendment defends from the President's unconstitutional acts are the law today and will remain the law tomorrow."
06.04.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King (IA-04) announced today that Tracie Gibler will join his staff effective Monday, June 10, 2013 to serve as Chief of Staff. In this role, she will oversee all operations of the Congressman's office. Most recently, Gibler served as Deputy Chief of Staff in the office of Iowa State Senate Republican Leader Bill Dix. Previous jobs have included directing the Iowa Senate Republican Majority Fund, where Gibler facilitated a total of 26 State Senate races. Prior to her work on the 2012 elections, she served with the Republican Party of Iowa and was also the Iowa Political Director for Governor Tim Pawlenty's Presidential campaign. She also served as the campaign manager for the Miller-Meeks for Congress 2010 campaign. A native Iowan, Gibler is a graduate of Northwestern University and holds a J.D. from Drake University Law School. "I am pleased to welcome Tracie as my Chief of Staff," said King. "Tracie brings with her a wealth of knowledge about Iowa politics, as well as extensive management experience and policy expertise. I am confident in her ability to excel in this new role, and to assist my office as we continue to strive to best serve the constituents of Iowa's Fourth Congressional District."
05.24.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement to encourage 4th District Iowans to recognize this upcoming Memorial Day by honoring the men and women who have died in service to our country: "This Memorial Day weekend, let us remember what unites and makes us great," said King. "Our nation was founded on standards that cannot be modified or altered by political or social winds of change, because American exceptionalism is our God-given foundation. Every day American soldiers put on their uniforms, represent and fight for our nation and yet they ask for nothing in return. I have traveled to Afghanistan and Iraq to be with our troops and I know that they understand their purpose. Let us respect the rights and privileges we have because of our men and women in uniform who gave their lives in defense of God-given American liberty. This Memorial Day, may we take the time to recognize the vast blessings this country offers, and may we 'stand beside her, and guide her.'"
05.23.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after voting for H.R. 1911, the Smarter Solutions for Students Act. The legislation ensures that interest rates will not double for students on July 1, 2013, the rate will instead reset once each year based on market forces. Interest rates would be set using this formula- Stafford loans (subsidized and unsubsidized): 10-year Treasury Note plus 2.5% capped at 8.5%, and PLUS loans (graduate and parent): 10-year Treasury Note plus 4.5%, capped at 10.5%. "Moving the student loan program to a market based interest rate is a smart and reasonable solution to this problem," said King. "The Smarter Solutions for Students Act resets student loan interest rates once a year, tying rates to move with the market and allowing borrowers to take advantage of lower interest rates. Politicians should not be determining student interest rates and using the rates as political leverage. Now, students can have more certainty when they borrow because of the caps put in place, and reassurance that their rates will reflect the free market and not the whims of Washington."
05.22.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following video after questioning witnesses during a hearing held by the House Judiciary Committee entitled, "S. 744 and the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986: Lessons Learned or Mistakes Repeated?" To watch Congressman King's remarks, click here. "I've called this the 'Always Is, Always Was, and Always Will Be' Amnesty Act," said King. "In that, if you 'is' in America illegally you get amnesty and you get to stay. If you 'was' in America and were deported, you get to come back, and if you 'will be' in America, there's no prospect you will be deported, and you get to stay. The 'Always Is, Always Was, and Always Will Be' Amnesty Act. This is the largest and most expansive Amnesty Act that ever got any traction in the history of the United States of America. For me it's breathtaking to see how a nation could go through a law enforcement whiplash like we have seen since November 6th."
05.22.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 3, the Northern Route Approval Act. This bill will circumvent the need for President Obama to issue a permit in order for the Keystone XL pipeline to be constructed. The legislation also contains several important provisions that will ensure that construction on the pipeline will not continue to be delayed. "The Keystone XL pipeline will positively change the structure of American energy as we know it," said King. "The pipeline will further North American energy independence while allowing our country access to a critical energy source. I have said before and it remains true today that this very same oil will likely be sent to China if the Keystone XL pipeline is not built. The President has made a politically motivated decision to refuse Americans jobs and to deny the vitality of our economy. The State Department found that over 40,000 jobs would be created during construction. My constituents and Americans across the nation understand the benefits of this project, which is why I was pleased to support the Northern Route Approval Act and the building of the Keystone XL pipeline."
05.21.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after supporting H.R. 570, the American Heroes COLA (Cost Of Living Adjustment) Act today. The American Heroes COLA Act allows Veterans to automatically receive a COLA each year in the same way as do beneficiaries of Social Security. Congress passed three other Veteran's bills, H.R. 1412, Improving Job Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2013, H.R. 1344, Helping Heroes Fly Act and H.R. 324, to grant the Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the First Special Service Force, in recognition of its superior service during World War II. "With Memorial Day around the corner it was an honor to recognize our brave men and women who have fought for our country and those who continue to fight for our great nation today," said King. "But every day we need to remember that those who put their lives on the line deserve our nation's gratitude and utmost respect. The American Heroes COLA Act will calculate the cost of living adjustment automatically, instead of Congress determining each year to include the adjustment and potentially leaving Veterans at risk of not receiving their COLA. I was pleased to support this common sense bill that will allow for stability and security in the lives of Veterans across our country."
05.17.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after reintroducing the Davis-Bacon Repeal Act in the 113th Congress as H.R. 2013. Davis-Bacon is a Depression-era law that artificially inflates the cost of federal contracts and restricts the ability of small businesses to compete for these contracts. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, and the Heritage Foundation, repealing Davis-Bacon will save taxpayers billions. "In my years in the construction industry I have paid Davis-Bacon wages and I have been paid Davis-Bacon wages," said King. "I have seen with my own eyes how federal micro-managing of wage rates for Davis-Bacon projects disrupts the work done on federal construction contracts, leading to higher-costs and less productive work. I have also experienced firsthand how Davis-Bacon projects work to price small, merit shop construction firms out of the market for federally funded contracts, and how this reduced competition results in reduced value for taxpayers. What I saw working construction projects has been verified by countless studies, which have shown that Davis-Bacon projects cost taxpayers more than necessary while providing them no added benefit. My experience in the industry brings me to this conclusion: if not for Davis-Bacon, for the same price we're paying now we could build five bridges instead of four and five miles of road instead of only four miles. Davis-Bacon is bad for taxpayers and it is bad for small businesses. Repealing this outdated, Depression-era law would be a big step towards ensuring taxpayer dollars are being used wisely and efficiently. Repealing Davis-Bacon should be a no-brainer."
05.16.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after joining Tea Party leaders, Senators, and other Members of Congress to highlight the targeting of conservative groups by the IRS: Congressman King joins Senator Cruz and others at a press conference highlighting the IRS's targeting of conservative groups "Today I joined my friends in the House and Senate, as well as conservative leaders from across the country, to bring light to the recent admission by the IRS that it unjustly targeted conservative groups leading up to the 2012 election," said King. "There is no place for this kind of political targeting in our constitutional republic. This reeks of the kind of political tyranny that so many people from around the world came to America to escape. This scandal cannot be considered in isolation. The IRS has become a bullying arm of the monstrous federal government - used to harass the political enemies of the president. This problem will only get worse, as the IRS will be the prime enforcement arm of ObamaCare: collecting a trillion dollars in new taxes and auditing individuals and businesses to make sure they have government-approved health insurance. This IRS scandal makes it more important than ever that we repeal ObamaCare, and it should also renew calls for fundamental tax reform, the FairTax, which would abolish the IRS entirely."
05.16.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting for H.R. 45, a bill to fully repeal ObamaCare. This is the first time the 113th Congress and its 82 new Members have had a chance to vote on a stand-alone bill to repeal ObamaCare. The bill passed by a vote of 229-195. To watch Congressman King's full floor speech, click here. "If we repeal ObamaCare, we can save more lives, by bringing real health care reform to this country and restoring the doctor patient relationship, providing incentives for research and development, and let[ing] our health system to modernize, instead of freez[ing] its development [and letting it] atrophy as it will under a government controlled program." "We remember the President's promises," said King. "'If you like your doctor, you can keep him or her.' No, we all know that's not true. 'If you like your insurance and your insurance premium, you get to keep it - your premiums aren't going to go up.' We know that's not true. The cost has gone up, the premiums are going up." "It is a malignant tumor. It's metastasizing on American liberty. It must be ripped out by the roots and completely repealed."
05.15.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following excerpt from his questioning of US Attorney General Eric Holder regarding Pigford and other settlements of discrimination claims brought by minority and female farmers against the USDA. The hearing took place in the House Judiciary Committee today. To watch Congressman King question Attorney General Holder, click here. "What about the surplus funds that remain [in the Keepseagle, Native American discrimination settlement]... about 400-plus million dollars? ...Wouldn't it bring to your attention that if you can't find a place to put the money, maybe there wasn't the level of discrimination to the level that was originally claimed, if there aren't enough claimants?" "... Are you aware of a single perpetrator of discrimination -- they all would have had to been under the payroll of the USDA -- have you investigated to identify a single perpetrator of discrimination against minorities or female farmers...have you identified even one?" "...Perpetrators of 4.4 or more billion dollars worth of discrimination: Aren't they still out there? Shouldn't they be dealt with? Shouldn't there be a means to try to identify the individuals that would allegedly commit that kind of discrimination?"
05.15.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the House Agriculture Committee passed its version of the 2013 Farm Bill, H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act of 2013. Two of King's amendments were adopted into the Farm Bill. "In Iowa's fourth district, agriculture is a way of life," said King. "I understand the priorities of my constituents, and ensured their main concerns are addressed in the bill. Today I worked with my colleagues to pass a farm bill that will reform farm programs, cut fraud and abuse within the nutrition programs, and strengthen crop insurance. I thank Chairman Frank Lucas for his diligent efforts, and was honored to work beside him to deliver a quality farm bill." The first King amendment prohibits states from enacting laws that place conditions on the means of production for agricultural goods that are sold within its own borders, but are produced in other states. "The Constitution of the United States reserves the regulation of interstate commerce to the Congress, not the states," said King. "The Protect Interstate Commerce Act (PICA) prohibits states from entering into trade protectionism by forcing cost prohibitive production methods on farmers in other states. PICA covers all agriculture products listed in section 206 of the Agriculture Marketing Act of 1946. By 2015, California will allow only eggs to be sold from hens housed in cages specified by California. The impact of their large market would compel producers in other states to invest billions to meet the California standard of 'means of production.' PICA will also shut down the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS), PETA and other radical organizations from creating a network of restrictive state laws that will slowly push agriculture production towards the demise." The second King amendment requires the Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, to take action within his jurisdiction to support efforts to increase the storage capacity in the Missouri River reservoir system that is dedicated to flood control and to increase the channel capacity of the River. "The Committee also passed my amendment that directs the Secretary of Agriculture to support efforts to provide increased flood protection for the Missouri river basin that experienced hundreds of millions of dollars of damages as a result of the 2011 flood," said King. "18 months has passed and drought conditions have dramatically affected the region. My amendment protects against future damage of farm land, homes and businesses that would potentially be destroyed by flooding. Protecting the Missouri River basin remains a high priority of mine, and must be the Agriculture Secretary's as well." ###
05.14.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after leading a press conference on immigration with Congressman Mo Brooks, (AL-05) Congressman John Fleming, (LA-04) Congressman Louie Gohmert, (TX-01) Congressman Paul Gosar, (AZ-04) and Congressman Steve Stockman (TX-36) today. For the first time, these House Conservative voices publically voiced their opposition to the Senate's Gang of Eight comprehensive immigration reform bill. To watch the full press conference, click here. "The 844 page bill, over in the Senate, whether amended or not, in what ways we can anticipate it might be, is still a terrible idea if you look at it from an economic perspective," said King. "At no stage in their lives does the Universe of those who would receive amnesty make a net financial contribution to this country. At no stage, not a single year, out of all those years. That's off of The Heritage Foundation's Report, Robert Rector's Report, which many of you will be familiar with. It destroys the Rule of Law. And the Rule of Law is an essential pillar of American exceptionalism. Many people come here because of equal justice under the law. If we reward people who break the law, they are unlikely to raise their children to respect it. The Rule of Law, at least with regard to immigration, would be destroyed."
05.13.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after speaking at the Law Enforcement Memorial in Sioux City today. King was presented an award for his continued support for law enforcement. Congressman King speaks at the Law Enforcement Memorial in Sioux City today. "Today I had the honor to remind our law enforcement officials that they are revered and respected by their community and that we appreciate their courage and bravery every day," said King. "I commend these brave men and women for their ability to work together, across local, state and federal agencies, especially during emergencies. I was raised in a law enforcement family, so I understand the culture and know firsthand the sacrifices these officers face. It was a great honor to speak to these police officers today and to recognize the fallen officers who served their communities faithfully."
05.13.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the verdict of the Gosnell trial: "Today's verdict is the right one, and justice will likely be served," said King. "Gosnell is an evil and merciless man, and his punishment is now due. More significantly, however, the Gosnell case has illuminated the abortion debate in this country. The jury made clear that accelerating a baby's birth to kill them is murder. Now, is it murder to kill them at the same stage of life without first inducing labor? Is a baby only a life when out of the womb? Is human life determined by location? As of today, there is even more precedent that a baby's life is a sacred as any of ours. Human life is sacred in all of its forms. Complex medical procedures and legal language only serve as hurdles on the way to achieving justice for every pre-born life. This verdict will cut through the euphemistic sound bites and demagoguery the Left hurls out in its relentless justification of abortion. The Gosnell trial has changed the abortion conversation, and when spoken about on the floor of Congress, the dais of the High Court, around the dinner table or the operating table, everyone will remember that there are two patients with heartbeats."
05.10.2013	Body text goes here. Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book. It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.
05.06.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after meeting with officials from the Ames area today: Congressman King and the Ames area delegation after meeting in the Congressman's Washington, D.C. office today. "I enjoyed meeting with the delegation from Ames area today," said King. "Hearing from city and county officials, representatives from Iowa State University, business professionals, and influential political leaders on issues important to the people in the Ames area was very informative. Ames is poised to leverage the agricultural and biotechnology knowledge base, the national impact by Iowa State University, and the entrepreneurial spirit of Iowans through stable and continued growth. In order to achieve these goals, the issues with rural water entities must be resolved for these communities."
05.06.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement to recognize The Heritage Foundation's study written by Robert Rector and Dr. Jason Richwine, entitled "The Fiscal Cost of Unlawful Immigrants and Amnesty to the U.S. Taxpayer:" "The report issued today by the Heritage Foundation reveals the astonishing overall net cost of amnesty for illegal aliens- $6.3 trillion," said King. "If there are objective rational proponents for the Senate comprehensive immigration reform bill, they should read Rector's report. If they are objective, they will reverse their positions. The report shows that amnesty's negative fiscal impact would be devastating. From the report: 'At every stage of the life cycle, unlawful immigrants, on average, generate fiscal deficits. Unlawful immigrants, on average, are always tax consumers; they never once generate a 'fiscal surplus' that can be used to pay for government benefits elsewhere in society. This situation obviously will get much worse after amnesty.' Violating the Rule of Law, for political purposes, to provide amnesty to lawbreakers would be the wrong thing to do regardless of its fiscal impact, but when the fiscal impact is also demonstrably harmful, it leaves proponents of amnesty with no leg to stand on. Failure to enforce the law or failure to abide by it is no reason to abolish the law." To read the full report, click here. 0
05.04.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after presenting medals to Korean War Veteran Gerald Carlson he did not previously receive for his service. Carlson, a Madrid, Iowa resident, served in the United States Army from 1951-1953. Congressman King with Korean War Veteran Gerald Carlson and his family today at the medal ceremony. "Today's medal ceremony reminded me of the importance of recognizing our Veterans for the sacrifices they made, and to respect them for the heroes they are," said King. "It was an honor to present Gerald Carlson with his medals today, surrounded by his family. Carlson clearly exemplifies what makes this country great." Carlson was awarded the following Medals: National Defense Service MedalKorean Service MedalUnited Nations Service Medal
04.30.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after presenting Sioux City resident and Vietnam Veteran Robert Hutchinson with medals obtained by King's office that he did not previously receive for his service. Hutchinson served in the Army for one year in Vietnam servicing helicopters in the 129th Assault Helicopter Company. Congressman King awards Vietnam Veteran Robert Hutchinson with his Army Medals today. "I always enjoy medal ceremonies like today's because they are an important part of my Congressional duties," said King. "Robert Hutchinson served our country faithfully, and like all soldiers he deserves our sincerest respect and admiration. I was honored to present these medals to a worthy Veteran." Hutchinson was awarded the following Medals: National Defense Service MedalVietnam Service Medal w 1 Bronze Star AttachmentRepublic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon w Device (1960)Sharpshooter Badge
04.29.2013	Congressman King leads House delegation response to severe weather damage in Dickinson, Lyon, O'Brien, Osceola and Sioux counties. Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King sent a letter signed by the entire Iowa House Delegation to President Barack Obama asking him to grant Governor Terry Branstad's request for a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration for five counties that have been ravaged by severe weather. If granted, the disaster declaration will trigger the release of Public Assistance Program funding to Dickinson, Lyon, O'Brien, Osceola and Sioux counties to aid their response to the severe weather damage between April 9 and 11, 2013. King initiated the congressional letter of support for the state's request. "Earlier this month damaging winds, heavy rains, ice and snow storms ripped through Northwest Iowa," said King. "This severe weather has caused extensive damage that Iowans are still recovering from, and I am asking the President to grant the state's request for a Declaration of Major Disaster. Damages to utility lines, roads and trees have hurt businesses and families in Iowa and public assistance funds will help strengthen recovery and cover the costs of emergency work. I am calling on the President, with the support of Iowa's House delegation on behalf of the state's request, to issue a disaster declaration and supply the relief efforts necessary to get these five counties back on their feet again." King's letter to President Obama notes that Governor Branstad requested a Major Disaster Declaration after determining that the weather damage "is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments and that supplementary Federal assistance is needed." For your convenience, a copy of Congressman King's letter can be found here.
04.26.2013	Washington D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after reintroducing the Truth in Employment Act, H.R. 1746. The bill would address a nefarious union practice called "salting," in which professional union organizers and agents seek employment at competing non-union companies for the sole purpose of unionizing the company or to drum up frivolous accusations of "unfair labor practices." Current labor law has been interpreted in a way that does not allow businesses to refuse to employ individuals whose only goal is to damage their company. The Truth in Employment Act would clarify that employers do not have to hire workers who are working on others' behalf to damage their company. "Every day, non-union businesses across America are targeted in various ways by Big Labor, and current law makes companies largely powerless to combat these attacks," said King. "The Truth in Employment Act would help restore the balance of rights between employers, employees, and labor unions by ensuring that employers are not forced to hire individuals who only want to damage their company. These 'salting' activities should not be confused with legitimate union organizing, and companies should not be forced to 'play dumb' and hire people working on behalf of their competitors. The Truth in Employment Act will go a long way towards protecting small businesses from sabotage, extortion, and frivolous lawsuits, and it should be enacted immediately as a common-sense clarification to federal labor law."
04.26.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of the "Reducing Flight Delays Act" which will allow the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to internally transfer $253 million, eliminating the need for further furloughs of air traffic controllers through the end of the fiscal year. It also may prevent the closure of smaller federally funded towers operated by private contractors that many feared would be forced to close under the sequester. "Travel delays caused by President Obama's sequester have already impacted the nation, but safety and convenience should not be sacrificed for political gain," said King. "Today I voted to ensure that the air traffic controller system will remain intact, and that our economy and society will not be impacted by frustrating travel delays. Moreover, this legislation shows that House Republicans do not need to cave to the President's demand of higher taxes to replace any or all of the sequester. We can replace the sequester with common sense spending cuts and flexibility within the budget."
04.25.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the District Court for the Northern District of Texas ruled in favor of the plaintiffs in a lawsuit brought against the Obama administration on Tuesday. The plaintiffs alleged that the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) directives contained in memos authored by ICE Director John Morton and Secretary of Homeland Secretary Janet Napolitano which constitute discretionary amnesty for illegal immigrants, are violations of federal law. Among the plaintiffs are Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents who have been barred from effectively carrying out federal law by these executive agency directives. As of Tuesday, they have been granted preliminary injunctive relief against implementing the directives contained in the memorandum. "Today, I am celebrating the District Court's decision to side in favor of the ICE agents and in favor of the Rule of Law, as enacted by Congress, over an Obama executive edict intended to undermine current federal statute," King said. "Subversion of our Constitutionally enacted immigration laws by Presidential edict is an affront to the Rule of Law, and I am pleased that this federal court recognized that fact. The DREAM Act was rejected by Congress several times, and hopefully, this court's ruling will halt the administration's efforts to go around Congress. This lawsuit was a product of a meeting I convened last July. I congratulate Chris Crane of ICE and all of the plaintiffs who defended the Constitution and Rule of Law. I have long argued that 'shall enforce' the law does not mean 'may enforce' the law, and this ruling is a major victory in a battle to bring the Obama administration into compliance with the Constitution and federal law." Highlights of the decision: Christopher Crane, et al, plaintiffs v. Janet Napolitano, et al, defendants. Civil action no. 3:12-cv-03247-O "The Directive sets forth to what extent, in the exercise of prosecutorial discretion, DHS should enforce immigration laws 'against certain young people who were brought to this country as children and know only this country as home...The Directive instructs ICE officers to refrain from placing certain aliens who are unlawfully present in the United States into removal proceedings. It also directs ICE offices to facilitate granting deferred action to aliens who are unlawfully present in the United States and are already in removal proceedings but not yet subject to a final order of removal." "The court finds that Congress's use of the word 'shall' in Section 1225(b)(2)(a) imposes a mandatory obligation on immigration officers to initiate removal proceedings against aliens they encounter who are not 'clearly and beyond a doubt entitled to be admitted'." "Congress unquestionably has the ability to legislate in the area of immigration law with regard to the removal of alien. Because immigration law is not 'within [the Executive's} domain and beyond control by Congress,' Congress has the ability to eliminate DHS's discretion with respect to when to initiate removal proceedings against an alien, and DHS cannot implement measures that are incompatible with Congressional intent."
04.18.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the comprehensive immigration bill introduced by the Senate "Gang of Eight" yesterday: "The Gang of Eight's bill is aggressive and outrageous amnesty," said King. "It is instant legalization of all illegal immigrants in the United States, with very few exceptions. It contains only promises: the promise of a plan for border security, of a backup plan for the border security, and of workplace enforcement in the form of making E-Verify mandatory. What makes anyone think President Obama would enforce any future immigration laws when he has violated his own oath of office to take care that the laws be 'faithfully executed'? I expected this from Democrats who have long understood their brand of more taxes, more borrowing, and more government giveaways, and know how to sell it. It is the Republicans who should know better. Republicans who support this bill have effectively said to Americans, 'we are prepared to sacrifice the Rule of Law on the altar of misguided and erroneous political expediency'."
04.18.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today to recognize Tax Freedom Day, the day when the average earner in the country has earned enough money to pay off the nation's total tax burden for the year: "Taxes are a fact of life, but another fact is that Americans are hit too hard by taxes," said King. "Complying with the nightmarishly massive tax code adds a sense of doom to this time of year, and we owe smart working taxpayers more than that. Government exists to aid society, not the other way around. April 15 would be just another day under the FairTax, and Americans could decide for themselves how much they pay in taxes each year. Under the current tax code, the government has the first lien on productivity, savings and investments. Tax freedom day highlights the fact because it shows us all just how much of our income goes to the federal government. The compliance and financial burdens of the tax code erodes our freedom and Tax Freedom Day reminds us that there is much work to be done to fix the tax code to ensure a competitive environment for free market capitalism."
04.16.2013	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after receiving the "Spirit of Enterprise" Award today from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The U.S. Chamber has presented this award to Members of Congress who support both pro-business legislation and pro-growth policies for the past 25 years. Members who receive the award are selected based upon how they voted on business issues included in the Chamber's publication entitled "How They Voted." Members must support the Chamber's position on at least 70% of those selected votes to receive the award. Congressman King maintained a 92% rating for 2012 and has an average of 87% during his tenure in Congress. Thomas J. Donohue, President and CEO of the U.S. Chamber presents Congressman King with the "Spirit of Enterprise" Award today. "Each day I serve in Congress, I look for opportunities to assist small business owners by encouraging the development of pro-growth policies," said King. "As a previous small business owner I understand the government needs to get out of the way so the entrepreneurial spirit can thrive. I thank the U.S. Chamber for this recognition today and look forward to working with them for many years to come." "In the face of high-stakes politics and difficult choices, Rep. King provided America's job creators with a strong voice in Congress," said Thomas J. Donohue, President and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. "The award recognizes Rep. King for consistently demonstrating his support for pro-growth policies."
04.12.2013	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following video release today after re-introducing the "No Hungry Kids Act," H.R. 1503. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has released new standards that have left children across the nation hungry during the school day because of calorie rationing. The "No Hungry Kids Act" repeals this USDA rule that created the new standards, prohibits the USDA's upper caloric limits, and protects the rights of parents to send their children to school with the foods of their choice. To watch Congressman King's video, click here. "Today I introduced the 'No Hungry Kids Act' because spring is here," said King."It's baseball season, and it's time to be outside exercising and playing, but also studying and learning. We passed the [Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act] here in Congress in order to make sure that the kids going to school got enough to eat. And now we have the USDA capping the calories, putting every American student on a diet. They've limited the amount of calories that you can have and described the kind of nutrition that you must have, and it's everyone on a diet. My 'No Hungry Kids Act' eliminates the calorie cap and puts them back to rewriting the rule again, so that these schools can serve our students as much nutritious food as they want, so that our students can grow and learn and excel, in school and out of school- in the classroom and on the baseball field." Congressman Tim Huelskamp (R-Kansas), original co-sponsor of "No Hungry Kids," said: "The voluminous menu that's good enough for the federal bureaucrats' cafeteria should be good enough for our children's school lunchroom. If U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack thinks the federal government should dictate what local governments put on their school lunchroom menus, why isn't he leading by example? Secretary Vilsack should impose his 'Nutrition Nanny' standards on the USDA buildings' cafeteria menus before the USDA seizes control of lunchroom menus in 100,000 school districts. The outcry of hungry schoolchildren has spread across the country ever since the high school students in Sharon Springs, Kansas publicized their protest via YouTube (see http://youtu.be/do3Se8owzlY )."
04.10.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to President Obama's budget request for Fiscal Year 2014: "After giving a head-fake to the media that his new budget would move to the center, the President today released another left-wing, tax-and-spend budget that is out of step with what this country needs. After repeating the word 'balance' time and time again, President Obama today followed the Senate Democrats' lead by offering a budget that never balances. Just last month, House Republicans made the tough choices the American people are demanding. Instead of throwing up our hands and demanding more from hard-working taxpayers, we passed a budget that made the tough spending choices that are necessary, and got to balance in ten years without raising taxes. The President's budget, on the other hand, would raise taxes another $1.1 trillion. That's on top of last year's $600 billion tax increase and ObamaCare's $1 trillion tax increase. We're already on track to have well above average tax revenues for years to come, but when it comes to tax revenue, it is clear that for the President, too much is not enough. Like his past budgets, President Obama's new budget pulls out all the tricks: tax increases disguised as tax reform and budget gimmicks disguised as spending cuts, yet even then his new budget adds $8.2 trillion in debt. The President's budget itself is an admission that you can never get to balance by chasing ever higher spending with ever higher taxes. President Obama says his goal 'is not to chase a balanced budget just for the sake of balance,' but the CBO just recently said that our debt will have 'serious negative consequences,' including lower wages for American workers, an increased risk for a financial crisis, and a huge increase in debt payments. We need to balance our budget. House Republicans didn't 'chase' balance, we delivered it. It's disappointing that the President refuses to show similar leadership."
04.10.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after meeting with members of the Siouxland Chamber Delegation during their 59th Annual Siouxland Washington Conference: Congressman Steve King joins the Siouxland Chamber Delegation on the Capitol steps. "After participating in the Siouxland Washington Conference for the past 11 years, I can confidently say that these leaders are headed in the right direction, and are guiding the Sioux City area forward with their expertise," said King. "I was glad to discuss federal issues of importance to the Chamber, and am pleased to assist in any way I can to ensure the area continues to thrive. I look forward to our meeting each year, and feel privileged to continue to develop my working relationship with the Sioux City leaders."
04.04.2013	6 Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after presenting two Vietnam War Veterans, Phillip Gregg and Richard Plueger, with medals they had not formally been presented after their service in the Navy. Gregg now resides in Lawton and Plueger in Sioux City, Iowa. Congressman King presents awards to Phillip Gregg (left) and Richard Plueger (right). "It was a great honor to present medals to Veterans Phillip Gregg and Richard Plueger today," said King. "These men, and many others like them, put their lives on the line for our country and therefore we owe them our deepest respect. Obtaining the awards for these two admirable soldiers is a small way to show my gratitude for their service." Veteran Phillip Gregg was awarded the following medals:Navy Good Conduct MedalNational Defense Service MedalVietnam Service Medal with two Bronze Star AttachmentsCombat Action RibbonVietnam Campaign Medal with 1960 Device Veteran Richard Plueger was awarded the following medals:National Defense Service MedalsVietnam Service Medal with three Bronze Service StarsVietnam Campaign Medal with 1960 DeviceRepublican of Vietnam Meritorious Unit Citation (Gallantry Cross w/Palm and Frame) *Foreign award earned but no longer available from U.S. NavyNavy Unit Commendation Ribbon
03.26.2013	4 Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to oral arguments heard before the United States Supreme Court this week regarding California's Proposition 8 ban on same sex marriage and the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) signed into law in 1996: To watch Congressman King's remarks on marriage, click here. "The Constitution never contemplated marriage being anything other than between a man and a woman," said King. "And for the United States Supreme Court to come to an opposite conclusion would mean, I think, a real distortion of the Constitution, which is a contractual guarantee between each of the generations."
03.25.2013	4 Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after awarding Susanna Schriever of Rock Rapids, IA, with the Silver Congressional Award on Friday, March 22, 2013. The Congressional Award is the United States Congress' award for young Americans. A bronze, silver, or gold award is given to participants based on setting and accomplishing personal goals in the areas of volunteer public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition. Congressman King Presents Susanna Schriever with her Silver Congressional Award. "The Silver Congressional Award is a significant achievement," said King. "I want to congratulate Susanna on her many accomplishments. Her dedication of over 200 hours of volunteering at the Rock Rapids Health Center with the elderly and meeting her personal improvement, physical fitness and expedition goals are all testaments to her great character. I am confident Susanna will continue to excel and be a great example for other young Americans."
03.25.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after participating in a press conference to honor Dr. Norman Borlaug today at the Iowa State Historical Museum. Dr. Borlaug, an agronomist, received the Nobel Peace Prize, Presidential Medal of Freedom and Congressional Gold Medal for his tremendous contributions to increasing food stability. In 2011, the Iowa legislature approved a resolution directing a statue of Dr. Borlaug to be created and placed in the United States Capitol to honor his impact on Iowa and the world. Sculptor Benjamin Victor was chosen by the Borlaug Statue Committee to create the statue which is scheduled to be placed in the Capitol next year. "It is an honor to commemorate what would have been the 99th birthday of a great Iowan who is responsible for saving as many as a billion people from starvation," said King. "Dr. Norman Borlaug is a hero for Iowans, but also for America and the world, because he stuck by his ideas when faced with extreme adversity. I look forward to showing my constituents the statue when it is placed in the Capitol, and expressing to them the great insight that this man had to solve this problem facing the world. He was an inspiration to me when I met him, and his story will soon serve as an inspiration to all who visit the Capitol."
03.22.2013	6 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after honoring Vietnam War Veteran Roger Baldwin with medals he had not formally received for his service. Baldwin served in the Air Force in Vietnam for a year before working on Air Force Bases in Utah, Germany and England. He is now a resident of Sioux City. Congressman King Presents Vietnam War Veteran Roger Baldwin with his Air Force Medals today. "Honoring soldiers like Roger Baldwin is one of the highlights of my job, and I take it very seriously," said King. "When veterans contact our office because they have not been presented their medals, we make every effort to uncover their awards. Those who have fought for our freedoms deserve our utmost respect and sincere gratitude, and today I was able to present Roger with the awards he earned protecting our country." Baldwin was awarded the following medals: Air Force Outstanding Unit AwardAir Force Good Conduct Medal with two Bronze Oak Leaf ClustersNational Defense Service MedalVietnam Service Medal with three Bronze Service StarsAir Force Longevity Service Award with one Bronze Oak Leaf ClusterRepublic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross with PalmVietnam Campaign Medal
03.22.2013	5 Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the third anniversary of ObamaCare on Saturday, March 23, 2013: To watch Congressman King's remarks, click here. "Let's repeal ObamaCare," said King. "Let's take it off the books. Let's pull it out by the roots as if it had never been enacted. And let's start all over again with a doctor patient relationship and with free enterprise directing this health care, not a government mandate. We need to get our freedom back and we need to reestablish our constitutional rights. This is the three year anniversary. Three years from now I hope to be telling you, 'We got this done' and look back on all the struggle we've been through. America will be a better place if we can expand American freedom and repeal ObamaCare." For more information about the fight against ObamaCare, click here.
03.21.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of the House Republican budget (H.Con.Res.25). The budget would achieve balance in the next 10 years by fully repealing ObamaCare and slowing the growth of government spending from 5% a year to 3.4% a year. The House Republican budget saves and strengthens Medicare and applies the lessons of the successful welfare reform efforts of the 1990's to other means-tested programs. The budget would also fix our broken tax code, getting rid of special interest breaks and loopholes while lowering rates for families and businesses in a revenue-neutral fashion. "When I first came to Congress, I went to the Chairman of the Budget Committee and asked 'Where's our balanced budget?' The answer I received was, 'A balanced budget is impossible.' Despite years of overspending since then by President Obama and Congressional Democrats," said King, "this House Republican budget we passed today does what a budget should do: it gets to balance. This is a pro-growth budget that begins the process of returning the federal government to its proper role. By repealing ObamaCare, this budget sets the stage for real, common-sense reforms to reduce health care costs for American families and businesses. By scrapping our current tax code and replacing it with a simpler, fairer, and more competitive one, this budget will put people back to work, increase Americans' take-home pay, and get our economy growing in ways we haven't seen for far too long. Finally, by stopping Washington's practice of spending money we don't have, this budget will get to balance and begin the process of warding off the debt crisis and austerity measures we're now seeing in Europe. Republicans continue to make the hard choices necessary to govern. Meanwhile, Senate Democrats haven't passed a budget in four years because they have been unwilling to put their plans on paper and show the American people just how much taxing and spending is needed to sustain their vision of government. Now that Senate Democrats have been forced by the House of Representatives and by the American people to put a budget forward, we can see with our eyes what we've known all along: their budgets will never balance, would revive discredited stimulus spending, would allow our nation's entitlement programs to go broke, and would raise taxes a trillion dollars. That's unacceptable. The American people deserve better, and today's House Republican budget delivers that better choice."
03.21.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after re-introducing the New Illegal Deduction Elimination (New IDEA) Act, H.R. 1292. New IDEA clarifies that wages and benefits paid to illegal immigrants are not tax deductible. It gives employers "safe harbor" if they use the E-verify program, which ensures employment documents identify lawful workers. When the IRS determines employees are illegal, the business expense for the wages and benefits paid to them will be denied and will instead become taxable income. When taxes are assessed, including interest and penalty, a $10/hour illegal worker costs the employer approximately $16/hour. New IDEA is serious about cracking down on illegal labor and leveling the playing field for law-abiding employers. "The New IDEA Act is simple, yet that is what makes it effective at shutting down the jobs magnet that attracts so many people to enter the United States illegally," said King. "There are over 100 million Americans who are either unemployed or not in the work force. New IDEA fixes these problems and does so by actually increasing revenue and creating more taxpayers."
03.20.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement in recognition of National Agriculture Week, which runs March 17-23, 2013. National Agriculture Week celebrates the achievements of agriculture throughout the country. "Agriculture is the vigor of Iowa life, and a bright spot in the national economy," said King. "Iowa's Fourth Congressional district is the premier agriculture district in the country. Producing more eggs and pork than any other district in the country, the Fourth also competes for the top spot in both corn and soybean production. More ethanol and renewable energy is produced here than anywhere else in the nation. Iowa farmers are proud to market these products of unmatched quality throughout the globe. The truism, 'all new wealth comes from the land,' is realized every day right here in Iowa. Agriculture roots run deep in Iowa. As an agribusiness man and now a Congressman, agriculture has always been, and remains, a focus of my life. I will continue to drive sound agriculture policy in Washington, D.C. and serve as a strident voice for our farmers in Congress."
03.19.2013	7 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following video of his questioning of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director John Morton today during a Judiciary Committee hearing. Congressman King grilled Director Morton about the Obama administration's release of over 2,000 illegal aliens. To watch Congressman King's questioning of Director Morton, click here. Congressman King: "When you looked at your options, of releasing these 2,228 into the street, of which 629 are criminals, what was the rationale? If you needed to free up your budget, why didn't you just go ahead, those who were adjudicated with deportation, remove them? Or accelerate that process so you could remove them and relieve your budget in that fashion? Release people into the streets of their home country rather than into the streets of our home country?" Director Morton: "We're doing everything we can to remove people. So I don't believe there were any removal cases that were ready to go that we delayed on." Congressman King: "Why didn't you accelerate that as another option rather than releasing people into the streets?" Director Morton: "We go as fast as we can. I'm not aware of any power that we had to accelerate."
03.18.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King addressed the crowd at the 40th Anniversary of the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) from the main stage in the Potomac Ballroom this last Saturday, March 16 from the Gaylord National Hotel. An excerpt from his speech is included; to watch the speech click the image below: To watch Congressman King's speech, click here. "If people don't understand that we have a core faith of beliefs, we don't trust their agenda. And that's the difference. But I'm watching it come back here to the United States and I look at the agenda that's just been coming out of Congress recently and it seems to me to be a hollow agenda. There's a lot more to this country then buy, sell, trade, make, gain. Yes, economics are important and yes, free enterprise capitalism is a pillar of American exceptionalism, but it isn't the central point, it isn't the sole point. And it isn't the only piece of the picture of the shining city on the hill."
03.15.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of the Supporting Knowledge and Investing in Lifelong Skills (SKILLS) Act. The SKILLS Act streamlines the current bureaucratic maze of workforce development programs and creates a more accessible, user friendly job training program. Under the SKILLS Act, states and employers are empowered to help train a 21st century workforce, and unemployed Americans will now be able find a "one stop shop" to help get the training they need. "In my construction business when I had a job opening, I was looking for specific expertise," said King. "Today there are 12 million Americans out of work but businesses can't find the right people to fill open positions. This gap will be narrowed by the SKILLS Act, which will successfully train and organize employers and job seekers so that both get what they need. It will put power into the hands of state and local leaders instead of wasteful programs and bureaucracy. The last thing this country needs is jobs left unfilled because resources were untapped to fill them. I knew when running my own business and I still understand today how important it is for employers to be able to find the talent to effectively run their teams, and the SKILLS Act will do just that." ###
03.13.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today announcing his two appearances at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) held at the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center. The Congressman will moderate a panel entitled "Too Many American Wars? Should We Fight Anywhere and Can We Afford It?" on Thursday morning, with panelists Dr. Angelo Codevilla, Professor of International Relations at Boston University, Congressman Tom Cotton (AR-04), Dr. Ivan Eland, Senior Fellow, The Independent Institute, and Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01), and will also address the conference participants on Saturday morning. Both of the Congressman's appearances at CPAC will be on main stage in the Potomac Ballroom. "Each year, I draw energy from the gathering of conservatives at CPAC, and I look forward to doing the same this year," said King. "Together we can be reminded of the principles that make this country great, and re-focus on stabilizing the pillars of American exceptionalism for our children and grandchildren." Who: Congressman Steve King (R-IA) What: Moderating Panel, Speaking at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) When: Panel- 9:45 AM Thursday, March 14th Remarks- 9:05 AM Saturday, March 16th Where: Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center, Potomac Ballroom
03.13.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after meeting with officials from the city of Fort Dodge and Webster County today: Congressman King visits with Fort Dodge and Webster County Officials on the Capitol steps today. "Meeting with the Fort Dodge and Webster County delegation to discuss their priorities is a central focus of our efforts," said King. "In discussing economic development, education and agricultural resources, I understand what is important to these leaders. Together we solidified a partnership that will continue to develop and grow."
03.13.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting for H.R. 890, the Preserving Work Requirements for Welfare Programs Act, today. The bill prohibits the Obama administration from waiving the essential and original work requirements and extends the TANF block grant program, which gives benefits to low-income families with children. "Americans understand that welfare work requirements were a positive bipartisan addition in 1996 to the welfare reform law signed by President Clinton," said King. "Today I voted to prevent the Obama Administration from removing these accountability measures and to preserve these programs that do so much good for many families. The Obama Administration continually puts dependency on the government dime above what is best for individuals and our nation. Being held responsible for government assistance should not be a partisan issue."
03.06.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after re-introducing the English Language Unity Act, with Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK) today. In the House of Representatives, King's bill is designated H.R. 997 and in the Senate, Inhofe's bill is designated as S. 464. The English Language Unity Act provides consistency among Americans by requiring all official functions of the United States to be conducted in English, establishes a uniform language requirement for naturalization and places an obligation on representatives of the federal government to encourage individuals to learn English. "There is no more unifying force in the world than a common form of communications currency," said King. "We must make assimilation of our legal immigrants a top priority and learning English is an important first step in that process. The English Language Unity Act is bipartisan legislation that will enshrine English as the official language of our nation, and ensure that this powerful force binds us all together so that all have the ability to achieve the American dream." "By declaring English as the official language of the United States, this will obligate the federa government to preserve, protect, and enhance the role of the English language within our government," Inhofe said. "One of the most important ways for immigrants to achieve success in the United States is by learning English, and this bill will help to encourage that unifying bond as they integrate into our society. Congress will likely be debating comprehensive immigration reform this summer, and any reform to our immigration laws must include English language provisions. We are a nation built by immigrants, and it is important we share one vision and one official language." Inhofe and King have championed the cause of English as the official language of the United Sates having jointly introduced this legislation in 2009 and 2011. Additionally, as an Iowa State Senator, King led the successful effort to enact legislation establishing English as Iowa's official language.
03.05.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing H.R. 946, the National Right to Work Act, in the 113th Congress. The bill would repeal the provisions in federal law that make "forced dues" the default labor law of the country. The forced due provisions of the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) and the Railway Labor Act (RLA) allow unions to extract dues from nonunion workers as a condition of employment. Twenty-four states have opted out of the forced dues clauses, but it remains the default law of the land. The National Right to Work Act was introduced today with 57 original cosponsors (full list below). "No American should be forced to pay union dues just to get or keep a job," said King. "Today, states around the country are fighting to opt-out of the federal government's misguided 'forced dues' labor law, which forces workers who want nothing to do with a union to pay union dues just to keep their jobs. Congress created this problem in the first place, and it is Congress's job to fix it. Americans are voting with their feet and their wallet, as Right to Work states have consistently gained in population, economic growth, and job creation relative to forced dues states. Passing the Right to Work Act would be a boon to our economy, and it would rightfully restore workplace freedom as the default labor law of this country." Mark Mix, the President of the National Right to Work Committee, said the following about King's bill: "We're extremely pleased that Congressman King has introduced the National Right to Work Act, intensifying a growing debate about labor law and worker freedom in our country. This legislation would enshrine the common-sense principle – already enforced in nearly half of U.S. states – that no worker should be compelled to join or pay dues to a union just to get or keep a job. A National Right to Work Act enshrines worker freedom while providing significant economic benefits for workers. The National Right to Work Committee is mobilizing its 2.8 million members to call on their Congressperson to support the National Right to Work Act." Full List of Original Cosponsors (57): Bachmann, Michele Bachus, Spencer Barr, Andy Barton, Joe Black, Diane Bonner, Jo Boustany, Charles Brady, Kevin Broun, Paul Bucshon, Larry Chabot, Steve Cole, Tom Cotton, Tom Cramer, Kevin Crawford, Rick Duncan, Jeff (SC) Duncan, John (TN) Fincher, Stephen Fleming, John Foxx, Virginia Gardner, Cory Gingrey, Phil Gohmert, Louie Goodlatte, Bob Gosar, Paul Graves, Tom Griffin, Tim Griffith, Morgan Harper, Greg Harris, Andy Huelskamp, Tim Huizenga, Bill Jenkins, Lynn Jordan, Jim LaMalfa, Doug Lamborn, Doug Long, Billy Lummis, Cynthia McClintock, Tom Meadows, Mark Mulvaney, Mick Nugent, Richard Nunnelee, Alan Palazzo, Steve Perry, Scott Pittenger, Robert Poe, Ted Roe, Phil Ross, Denis Salmon, Matt Scalise, Steve Schweikert, David Stockman, Steve Walberg, Tim Westmoreland, Lynn Wilson, Joe Yoho, Ted
03.05.2013	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after questioning United States Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack today in the House Agriculture Committee: To watch the Congressman question Secretary Vilsack, click here. "In today's hearing, Secretary Vilsack and I spoke about the USDA's troubled school lunch overhaul, and his recent indication that he will be furloughing meat inspectors as a consequence of sequestration," said King. "I expected answers about those important decisions that have and will affect Iowans, especially our meat producers and students, but the Secretary had no substantive answers. Americans expect cooperation between the Executive and Legislative branch. I call upon Secretary Vilsack to address the major concerns within the school lunch program and heed the advice of the committee to do all in his power to submit to Congress the request for the flexibility required to avoid furloughing inspectors."
03.01.2013	8 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after receiving the American Motorcyclist Association (AMA) Award. The AMA is a non-profit association that serves as the "premier advocate" of the motorcycling community. This award is given to Members of Congress who have supported the AMA and its 221,000 members' "most important causes" of both on-and-off highway motorcyclists. King receives the AMA Supporter Award from former Senator Wayne Allard, VP of Government Relations "I am thankful for this Supporter Award from the members of the AMA," said King. "The AMA is doing a great job at promoting and protecting the future of motorcycling and securing young riders can continue to enjoy this recreational pastime. I want the members of the AMA to know that they will have my support for years to come." "Thanks to the outstanding efforts of Representative King during the 112th Congress, and the efforts of others, motorcyclists continue to enjoy a variety of freedoms related to their sport and pastime that were under attack," said Wayne Allard, AMA vice president for government relations and a former U.S. senator and U.S. representative from Colorado. ### 0
03.01.2013	9 0 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after holding the Grand Opening for his new district office in Ames today: 0 Congressman King cuts the ribbon to mark the opening of his new Ames office today. "It was an honor to cut the last Grand Opening ribbon for our new district offices today in Ames," said King. "Members of my staff based in both the Fourth District and in Washington, DC are here to support and assist my constituents, and these new offices will only make that process easier. I look forward to the continued interaction and working relationships with both the new and established areas of Iowa's Fourth Congressional district." ### 0
02.28.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after voting in support of the House version of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Reauthorization of 2013 on the House floor. VAWA channels federal funding to programs that aid in helping women who are victims of domestic abuse, stalking, and sexual assault. "Although I am concerned that this bill was brought to the floor in a manner that undermined work done by the Judiciary Committee, I understand the importance of reauthorizing VAWA to ensure its resources are available to help fight domestic abuse and sexual assault," said King. "I supported this legislation because I know how important it is to empower women in difficult situations. If a woman is at risk, she should know that she has a place to turn for support and assistance. I supported VAWA in 2005, 2012, and today I voted in support of the House version to see that victims of domestic violence and sexual assault have access to the resources and protection when they need it the most."
02.28.2013	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after accepting the American Conservative Union (ACU) Conservative Award today. The award is based on votes taken during the second session of the 112th Congress. The ACU is the oldest and largest grassroots conservative organization in the country and their rating system is considered to be the definitive conservative assessment of Congress. King scored an 88% in 2012 and holds a 96% lifetime rating. King receives the ACU Conservative Award from ACU Chairman Al Cardenas "Receiving this award today is a great honor," said King. "The American Conservative Union's award holds Congress accountable and recognizes those who consistently use conservative principles to guide their legislative decisions." "Steve King's lifetime ACU rating of '96' over 10 years of service shows an outstanding commitment to conservative principles on a wide range of issues and is one of the highest ratings in the Congress over that length of time," ACU Chairman Al Cardenas said.
02.28.2013	Washington, DC– Congressman Steve King and Senator Chuck Grassley, both of Iowa, are leading an effort to bring more transparency into federal courtrooms by introducing the "Sunshine in the Courtroom Act." The legislation allows judges at all federal court levels to open their courtrooms to television cameras and radio broadcasts. "The federal court system is unknown to many Americans. C-SPAN's coverage of the House and Senate has led to greater transparency of the legislative branch of government, and transparency leads to accountability. Video coverage of our courts can be a great learning tool for the American people and will contribute to a better understanding of the American judicial system," Grassley said. "The responsible televising of courtroom proceedings will allow Americans to better understand the important decisions that are made in the federal judiciary every day, that affect all of our lives," said King. "The Sunshine in the Courtroom Act will provide that much needed transparency by allowing Federal judges to televise coverage of proceedings in their courtrooms. This is a common sense step towards matching the overwhelming number of states that allow televising of at least some trial court proceedings, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate and the House to make this a reality." The bicameral, bipartisan bill includes a 3-year sunset to provide Congress the opportunity to study the effects of the legislation before making any permanent changes. The bill protects the privacy and safety of non-party witnesses by giving them the right to have their faces and voices obscured, and it prohibits the televising of jurors. The bill also includes a provision to protect the due process rights of each party. The Senate bill is being introduced with Senator Chuck Schumer, who has joined with Grassley in introducing the bill since 1999. King is joined in the House by Representatives Jason Chaffetz, Ted Deutch and Zoe Lofgren. Since Grassley and Schumer first introduced legislation, the Chief Justice has immediately released audio of oral arguments of compelling cases. The first release came when then Chief Justice William Rehnquist allowed for the release of audio immediately following oral arguments in the Florida election matter in 2000. Since then, Chief Justice John Roberts has released audio recordings the same day of the oral arguments for more than 20 cases, including Grutter v. Bollinger, D.C. v. Heller, the Guantanamo Cases and the Citizens United Case. Studies and surveys conducted in many states which permit some form of audio-video coverage in their courtrooms have confirmed that electronic media coverage of trials boosts public understanding of the court system without interfering with court proceedings.
02.26.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman King released the following statement after the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report showing how ObamaCare could increase deficit spending by $6.2 trillion: "President Obama repeatedly claimed that ObamaCare would be fiscally responsible and not add to the deficit, and his liberal allies in Congress went to work drafting up a bill full of cynical budget gimmicks and double counting to manipulate the bill's official budget score," said King. "As the GAO showed today and as I have said since the law's passage, when you untangle the falsehoods and unsustainable provisions contained in ObamaCare and replace those with the realistic assumptions given to us by our government's health care fund trustees and actuaries, its budget-busting impact becomes clear. I commend Senator Sessions for requesting this report. Instead of bending the cost curve down, the health care bill bends the cost curve up, significantly adding to our nation's already unsustainable debt trajectory. Today's report should renew the effort to tackle this law before it tackles us."
02.25.2013	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after meeting with Governor Branstad and the other members of Iowa's Congressional Delegation: Governor Branstad meets with members of the Iowa Delegation. "Meeting with Governor Branstad and the members of the Iowa Delegation today allowed us to discuss issues directly affecting Iowans," said King. "From economic development, health care, education and drought issues, we focused on how we can work together to ensure that Iowa maintains its high standards for quality of life, job creation and agricultural advancement. We are ready to take on the challenges facing our great state, and I look forward to the promising future ahead."
02.15.2013	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after signing a letter sent to the International Olympic Committee Board (IOC) urging it to reconsider the removal of wrestling as an Olympic sport following the 2016 Olympic Games. Gov. Terry Branstad, Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds, and the entire Iowa Congressional Delegation signed the letter. Congressman King is also a co-sponsor of Congressman Loebsack's recent resolution opposing the IOC's decision (H. Res. 71). "Wrestling has deep roots in our great state, but this is an Olympic sport that extends well beyond Iowa and the United States. It is popular in many of the world's largest countries," said King. "Wrestling is a sport of great strength, determination and perseverance – all characteristics that embody the Iowa spirit. Removing wrestling from the Olympic Games is not simply a matter of 'renewing or renovating the program' as the IOC stated. This decision eliminates a storied tradition from the Games. I encourage the IOC to rethink its stance and allow wrestling to remain in the 2020 Olympic Games and beyond, and I am pleased that I had the opportunity to join the Governor, Lt. Governor and my colleagues in Congress in delivering that strong message to the IOC today."
02.14.2013	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after meeting with city officials from Mason City and Clear Lake today: Merlin Bartz, Congressman King's District Representative for the Mason City Office; Gary Peterson, VP Legislative Affairs for Clear Lake Chamber of Commerce; Hon. Nelson Crabb, Mayor of the City of Clear Lake, IA; Nate Carney, Board President of the Clear Lake Area Chamber of Commerce; Hon. Eric Bookmeyer, Mayor of the City of Mason City, IA; Gary Wattnem, Commissioner of the Mason City Airport Commission; Kim C Pang, VP Government Affairs/President-Elect of the Mason City Area Chamber of Commerce; Brent M. Willett, Executive Director of the North Iowa Corridor of Economic Development Corporation; Congressman Steve King; Scott Flory, Administrator of the City of Clear Lake, IA; Dr. Debra Derr, Board President of the Mason City Area Chamber of Commerce; Robin Anderson CCE, IOM Executive Director of the Mason City Area Chamber of Commerce; Tim Coffey, IOM Executive Director of the Clear Lake Area Chamber of Commerce "I was very happy to see the excellent turn-out for the ribbon cutting ceremony for my new office in Mason City earlier this week," said King. "Many of the same people were here in DC to make the case for economic development in the Mason City and Clear Lake areas. Working together for our common causes has begun. Good people and good leadership from our communities make the difference."
02.12.2013	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (IA-04) released the following video statement after President Obama's State of the Union address: To view Congressman King's statement, click here. "President Obama has said to us, American citizens, that we do not have a spending problem with our Federal Government. Here tonight he laid out a series of things that are spending problems that we have and the President is determined to grow the United States government. When he does that, all the growth that we would have in our government spending comes from borrowing. We're right now borrowing 40 cents out of every dollar that we're spending. The President's pushing for more, it results in tax increases. We have to stop the irresponsible spending. It's the most important piece of this message that I glean from listening to the President. We don't have a spending problem? Yes, we do Mr. President."
02.11.2013	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after hosting the Grand Opening for his new Mason City Office today: Congressman King at the Grand Opening of the Mason City office in the Fourth District today "I was pleased to cut the ribbon to mark the opening of the Mason City office today in order to ensure that my staff is accessible to new constituents," said King. "We are available and ready to assist my constituents so that they have the information and resources they need. By opening this new office in Mason City, along with the other offices across the Fourth District, we are making sure that happens."
02.06.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting for the "Require a PLAN Act" (H.R. 444) today. The bill would require President Obama to either submit a budget that balances within 10 years or offer a supplemental budget plan by April 1, 2013, that demonstrates when it would achieve balance. So far, President Obama has submitted four budgets to Congress. None of them have ever reached balance, or shown a path towards future balance. King is a co-sponsor of the legislation. "In the last two years, House Republicans have passed serious, responsible budgets. To contrast, the Senate has not passed a budget in nearly four years, and the President's budgets are not serious, since they never even attempt to achieve balance or stabilize our debt - much less pay it down. Just yesterday the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office issued its annual budget and economic forecast, and its predictions are dire. The CBO says this debt will have 'serious negative consequences,' including lower wages for Americans, an increased risk for a financial crisis, and a huge increase in debt payments. According to the CBO, by 2020, we will be spending more on interest on our debt than we will be on national defense. By 2023, entitlement spending and interest on the debt will consume more than 90% of federal revenue. The bill I voted for today will simply force the President to say when his budget will balance, or publically admit what we all know: that it never will. House Republicans cannot continue to negotiate with ourselves. It's time we had someone negotiating in good faith at the other end of the table. Today's bill is one just more small step towards that end."
01.29.2013	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after hosting the Grand Opening for his new Fort Dodge office: Congressman King cuts the ribbon to mark the opening of the Fort Dodge office in the Fourth District. "Opening the Fort Dodge office today fulfilled a vision that was many months in the making," said King. "My district staff is ready to assist constituents, because I want Fourth District Iowans to have access to the information and resources they need. I look forward to using the Fort Dodge office, and the other Fourth District offices, to make that happen."
01.28.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today following the press conference held by the Senate 'Gang of Eight' who announced their broad proposals for comprehensive immigration reform: "Eight Senators have now agreed to four basic legislative pillars or immigration policy principles," said King. "They have 52 more Senators and 218 House Members to convince after they put their plan on paper in the form of a bill. I agree with most of the language in the very broad guidelines. I would ask the Senators, do you agree with me that the United States should have an enforced immigration policy designed to enhance the economic, social, and cultural well being of the United States of America? Do you believe the Rule of Law and national sovereignty are essential components of a successful nation? Do you believe employers should be allowed to deduct wages and benefits paid to illegal aliens as a business expense? I'm guessing the 'Gang of Eight' would be inclined to agree with me on my principles. But, I predict that they will oppose my every effort to get them into law. The president has demonstrated he will only enforce the laws that he likes. Promises of future law enforcement made under the 1986 Amnesty Act were not adequately kept by President Reagan. Why, then, would Americans accept the promise of this president? I will continue to promote positive, common sense reforms that address our problems with illegal immigration, including reintroducing the New IDEA (Illegal Deduction Elimination Act) in the 113th Congress and I will continue to support enforcement of our existing laws."
01.25.2013	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement to mark the 40th anniversary of the largest human rights demonstration in the world, the March for Life rally: Iowans watch a video of Congressman King at a reception hosted by the Congressman's office today following the annual March for Life. "I commend the tens of thousands of Americans who came from Iowa and across the country to Washington today and sacrificed to show their support for innocent human life," said King. "We must not allow ourselves to be discouraged, because we understand that life, even in its beginning form, is sacred. We must pray for a time when Roe v. Wade is overturned and our laws will once again reflect our pro-life beliefs. This movement must be alive in our hearts and expressed through our actions. This is why we march."
01.25.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after a Federal Appeals Court unanimously ruled that President Obama's "recess" appointments to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) in January 2012 were unconstitutional. The decision also seems to suggest that President Obama's appointment of Richard Cordray as Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) at the same time was also unconstitutional. "Whether by allowing ten states to miss the 'No Child Left Behind' deadline in exchange for reform plans, waving the welfare work requirements, or instituting the DREAM Act by executive fiat, President Obama has repeatedly violated the law and his oath and has taken the approach of 'act first, ask later' when it comes to the Constitution," said King. "Today's decision affirms what I said at the time: that President Obama, by attempting to use his recess appointment power to appoint members to the NLRB while the Senate was not in recess, was clearly violating his powers. Furthermore, this decision implicates the non-recess appointment to the unaccountable CFPB he issued at the same time. These appointments by the President violated the Constitution and resulted in unnecessary uncertainty for the job creators that have to abide by these government bureaucrats' rules and regulations. Obama knows better. Today's court decision is a welcome one for government accountability, defenders of the Constitution and our nation's system of checks and balances, and for the economy as a whole."
01.23.2013	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after submitting a letter to the Members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. The letter urges the Members of the Committee to obtain a commitment from Secretary of State nominee, Senator John Kerry, to pursue a thorough investigation into the events that occurred in Benghazi on September 11, 2012: "The events that occurred in Benghazi last fall were tragic and likely preventable," said King. "As the process to confirm Senator Kerry as Secretary of State begins, I want to remind the Members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee of the four American lives that were lost on that 11th anniversary of September 11, 2001. So many questions remain unanswered, and that is why we must leave no stone unturned to discover what really happened that night and who is responsible. Today I urge these Senators on the Foreign Relations Committee to insist John Kerry dedicate whatever means are necessary to shed light on what really happened in Benghazi." To read Congressman King's previous press release on Senator Kerry's nomination, click here. The text of the letter sent to the Members on the Foreign Relations Committee is attached as a pdf below. King_Letter_to_Senate_Foreign_Relations.pdf
01.23.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting against the "No Budget, No Pay" Act: "The American people rightfully expect Congress to do its job, and that includes passing a budget." said King. "However, while I support the concept of the 'No Budget, No Pay' bill, the 27th Amendment to our Constitution specifically says 'No law, varying the compensation for services of Senators and Representatives, shall take effect' until after an intervening election. The language is clear and unambiguous. I support the spirit of the bill, but it did not meet Constitutional standards. Each member takes their own oath of fidelity to the constitution, and I respect the view of my colleagues who disagree. In order to keep my oath to the Constitution, my only choice was to vote no."
01.21.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today to recognize President Barack Obama's second inauguration: 0 "I congratulate President Obama for taking his second oath of office for the Presidency of the United States," said King. "To 'preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States' is a promise not to be taken lightly, and one that may require refreshing. In Iowa we understand that each new harvest season brings new crops, and as the Bible teaches, to everything there is a season. With the Presidential campaign behind us, a new season begins today. I encourage President Obama to look at this second term for new opportunities to uphold the rights enshrined in the Constitution, and to commit to representing the desires and dreams of the American people." ###
01.16.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting against final passage of H.R. 152, the Sandy Relief Appropriations Act. King voted for the Mulvaney amendment because of the included offsets, but ultimately voted against the final bill. "During the 2011 debt ceiling debate, House Republicans were able to force spending caps as part of a first step towards fiscal sanity," said King. "Today, the House threw aside those spending caps, along with all sense of fiscal responsibility. Furthermore, a number of good, common sense, fiscally conservative amendments were prevented from even receiving a vote, thus preventing the House from being allowed to work its will on this important legislation. I support getting funding out to communities in need as the result of Hurricane Sandy. Just two weeks ago I supported immediately-necessary supplemental funding to ensure that policy holders in the National Flood Insurance Plan would continue to receive legitimate insurance payments for their damaged property. However, the legislation considered today did not meet the standard for responsible disaster relief. Long-term spending should instead be addressed when Congress picks up the appropriations process again in the coming weeks. It is unconscionable to use this tragic storm as an excuse to throw aside our budget restraints, pile on spending measures unrelated to disaster relief, the majority of which will not even be spent out for years, and continue to pile debt on our children."
01.16.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after President Obama and Vice President Biden presented their executive actions on gun control: "If there are Constitutional steps that can be taken to avert future tragedies like Sandy Hook, Congress needs to consider them. Taking steps to prevent tragedies like the terrible events that occurred in Newtown is a noble cause," said King. "This is the latest attempt by the President to legislate through emotion, but doing so does not lead to quality legislation. Reducing violence across our nation is a worthy goal, but it is imperative that the Constitutional rights of our citizens are not forgotten in the process. The right of the people to defend themselves against tyranny is the reason for the Second Amendment. We cannot disarm all law abiding Americans in an attempt to preempt a deranged individual."
01.15.2013	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after joining Members of the House of Representatives in reading the entire Constitution aloud on the House floor. This is the second time the Constitution has been read by Members of Congress on the House floor. The first took place when Republicans regained the majority in 2011. Congressman King reads a portion of the Constitution on the House floor today. To view the video, click here. "Today I took part in a new and significant tradition," said King. "The Constitution is the Supreme law of the land, and I consider it a great responsibility to uphold the principles outlined within its pages. I believe that the Founding Fathers were divinely guided as they built the foundation of our country, and it was an honor to recognize their names on the House floor today. The challenges facing our nation are great, but we can unite and band together if we use the Constitution as our guide."
01.09.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after the U.S. Department of Energy announced that a new research facility will be established at the Ames Laboratory at Iowa State University. The University will be awarded up to $120 million over the next five years to establish the Critical Materials Institute (CMI) at the Ames Lab. King sent a letter to Secretary Chu of the Department of Energy supporting the University's application for the grant in August of 2012. "Today I congratulate the dedicated and advanced team of researchers at Iowa State University for receiving this distinguished grant," said King. "Having academia, four Department of Energy national laboratories and the private sector involved will help the new CMI to focus on developing better uses for the rare earth materials we have access to so that we can become less dependent on other sources of materials that can be disrupted by supply issues. The facility in Ames is already an excellent resource to our state and nation, and there is no doubt that this grant will help bring it up to an even higher level of excellence."
01.04.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman King released the following statement after supporting the House-passed bill providing relief to Hurricane Sandy victims: "The insurance policy holders affected by Sandy have a contractual guarantee backed by Congress that we met today," said King. "Because Congress has created its own monopoly over flood insurance and mismanaged the risk/premium ratios, we have no ground to stand on to deny legitimate insurance claims to the victims of Sandy. I would have liked to have seen offsets, and I will continue to fight for offsets in any future disaster relief bills."
01.04.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after introducing H.R. 140, the Birthright Citizenship Act of 2013; H.J. Res 16, to repeal the 16th Amendment to the Constitution; and H.R. 132, the ObamaCare Repeal Act. King was sworn in yesterday to mark the beginning of the 113th Congress and will now represent the new 4th District of Iowa. H.R. 140, the Birthright Citizenship Act of 2013:"We need a common sense solution to fix the flawed interpretation of the Constitution's citizenship clause, and 'The Birthright Citizenship Act of 2013' does just that," said King. "The current practice of extending U.S. citizenship to hundreds of thousands of 'anchor babies' must end because it creates a magnet for illegal immigration into our country. Now is the time to ensure that the laws in this country do not encourage law breaking." H.J. Res 16, to repeal the 16th Amendment to the Constitution:"The Founding Fathers envisioned a robust market based economy," said King, "and our current tax policies do not encourage that system. Replacing the current income tax with a consumption tax will ensure that productivity is not punished in our country, but rewarded." H.R. 132, ObamaCare Repeal Act:"ObamaCare was bad policy when it was passed, and it is still bad policy today," said King. "Businesses and households are dealing with soaring healthcare costs as it is implemented across the country. My bill would repeal ObamaCare in its entirety."
01.04.2013	
01.03.2013	Body text goes here. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Maecenas auctor laoreet vestibulum. Suspendisse sed viverra magna. Suspendisse egestas lacus ut massa auctor ultrices. Maecenas bibendum nec risus eu convallis. Phasellus ac sollicitudin sapien. Nunc egestas interdum mauris sit amet imperdiet. Mauris a tellus felis. Duis euismod aliquam tincidunt. Curabitur ac consectetur ante. Vestibulum at arcu dui. Mauris hendrerit turpis id enim vulputate fringilla. Donec bibendum volutpat dui gravida commodo. Cum sociis natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Cras eget augue sed sapien malesuada pulvinar. Etiam mauris ligula, vulputate et nisl vitae, congue tristique mauris. Duis aliquam neque in diam viverra, et rhoncus elit ultricies. Praesent a luctus est. Nulla facilisi. Ut aliquet felis in massa venenatis volutpat.
01.02.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting against the Fiscal Cliff deal late last night: "I could not vote for this bill because, as a whole, it's bad for our country," said King. "There are a number of provisions in this bill that I support, such as those addressing the Alternative Minimum Tax, the Farm Bill extension, the Production Tax Credit for wind and biodiesel, and making certain tax policies permanent- but I'm not for the permanent and accelerated growth in our debt and deficit. This bill makes no effort to curb the out of control federal spending that's to blame. In fact, it proactively puts off, for another two months, the sequestration - the only serious effort to begin reining in federal spending that's currently on the table. This bill will ensure that the President has yet another opportunity two months from now to pressure Congress for more tax and revenue increases. The President says he is for a balanced approach to deficit reduction, but this is nothing close to balanced. We cannot tax our way out of the spending dilemma we've created. The American people know that Washington has a spending problem, not a taxing problem. We must dramatically cut spending. I opposed this bill because it raises taxes without any plan to reduce the deficit. It simply kicks the can further down the road and ensures the President will have another crack at taxpayers' wallets while offering no substantive solutions to stop this spending crisis."
12.21.2012	4 Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today in celebration of the Christmas season. Additionally, King has announced the only Christmas wish on his list and wants others to send what they'd like to see from Washington, DC for Christmas this year via Twitter and Facebook using the hashtag #DCWishList. Congressman Steve King wishes a Merry Christmas and shares his Christmas wish. Click here to watch. "I want to wish you all a very, Merry Christmas as we remember the reason for the season being the celebration of the birth of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ," said King. "All across the state of Iowa, the United States of America, and around the world, people celebrate by exchanging gifts. And the only gift I am asking for, and I hope you can fit it into my stocking, is a Balanced Budget Amendment to the United States Constitution. If there are wishes that you would like Washington, DC to deliver to you in the coming New Year, please tweet them at me or comment on my Facebook using the hashtag #DCWishList. Thank you very much for your continued support. God bless you, and may you have a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year."
12.21.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after President Barack Obama nominated Senator John Kerry (D-MA) to succeed Hillary Rodham Clinton as the next Secretary of State: "I am confident Senator Kerry will be confirmed as the next Secretary of State and congratulate him on his appointment," said King. "The first difficult job for Senator Kerry will be to cooperate with and encourage a complete and thorough investigation of the Benghazi killings. Americans deserve a detailed timeline of all the relevant components both at and near the sites and also from any of the decision makers. We need to know everything from the Ambassador's autopsy report, to what time the President went to bed that night, to the logistics of our military assets in the region. We need to clear up all these issues and get on with the business of foreign relations. I will ask senators to make these points during Senator Kerry's confirmation hearings."
12.20.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after House Agriculture Committee Chairman Frank Lucas (R-OK) announced King was chosen to serve as the Subcommittee Chairman of the Department Operations, Oversight, and Nutrition Subcommittee for the 113th Congress: "I am honored to have the opportunity to serve as Subcommittee Chairman of the Department Operations, Oversight, and Nutrition Subcommittee within the House Agriculture Committee, and I look forward to continuing to work with Chairman Lucas," said King. "I have been a member of the Agriculture Committee since I first came to Congress, and I see representing such an agriculturally focused district as a privilege. My district is one of the leading agricultural production districts in America. The new 4th district will lead the nation in egg and pork production and will be near the top in corn and soybean production. It will also rank first amongst all 435 congressional districts in ethanol and total renewable energy production. It is important for this intensely agricultural district to have more oversight in USDA programs that affect our entire nation. During my time as a contractor it was mandatory that to be successful I had to make sure every dollar achieved the most bang for the buck. As Oversight Chairman I will work to apply those same principles to the tax dollars that fund the programs under the jurisdiction of my subcommittee. Iowa's voice on agriculture will be stronger with this new appointment," said King. "Rep. King is a strong leader and I'm pleased to have him chair the Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, and Nutrition. I look forward to working with him in this new leadership role on behalf of America's farmers and ranchers," said Chairman Frank D. Lucas of Oklahoma.
12.20.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting against the Conference Report for the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) today because of a provision that removes the strategically important and valuable Iowa Air National Guard 132nd Fighter Wing from Des Moines, Iowa. King is an original co-sponsor of Congressman Tom Latham's bill, the Stop Unjustified Cuts to the Air Guard Act, which will require sufficient justification for making cuts to the Air National Guard in Des Moines. "This year's NDAA eliminates 21 F-16 Fighters from the Air National Guard's 132nd Fighter Wing in Des Moines. These cuts are not based on our nation's strategic needs or a thorough cost benefit analysis." said King. "The version of the NDAA that the House and Senate passed in March would have prevented this, but this new version of the NDAA disregards the expressed will of majorities of both houses of Congress. It is ultimately more cost effective and strategically sound to keep the 132nd Fighter Wing's F-16s in Des Moines, so I will be unable to support passage of the 2013 NDAA Conference Report.
12.13.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after the American Wind Energy Association (AWEA) announced a proposed ramp down of the Wind Production Tax Credit (PTC) starting in 2013. King has been a strong supporter of the PTC, and recognizes the importance of the tax credit to help the wind industry gain market access. Once market access is achieved by the wind industry, it will be important to phase out the credit, which is why AWEA's proposal is an important step forward for the wind industry. On behalf of its 2,000 member companies, AWEA sent a letter outlining the potential phase out of the PTC yesterday to Chairman Max Baucus of the Senate Finance Committee and Chairman Dave Camp of the House Ways and Means Committee. "I'm very pleased with the phase out proposal the industry has put together," said King. "I have been advocating for this for some time now, and I've always emphasized that any proposal to ramp down the PTC needed to come from the industry itself. A scheduled phase out is the appropriate way to wind down the PTC. It will ensure a soft landing for a growing industry that has created thousands of jobs, significant economic development in rural America, and new opportunities for energy independence for this nation. I look forward to working with AWEA, Chairman Camp, and my colleagues in Congress to get this compromise signed into law."
12.13.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the Senate Republican Policy Committee's recent study showing the dramatic impact the increase and expansion of the death tax will have on farms in Iowa and across the country: "This study shows that 92,856 total farms in Iowa will be impacted if the death tax is allowed to increase in 2013 as currently scheduled," said King. "Some are clearly willing to bet that this won't cripple rural communities across our nation, but I am not. We must act now to ensure that the federal government does not take more than half the value of family farms starting next year. The death tax should not come between a family who must say goodbye to a loved one, or force a family business to break up causing the physical and human capital of the business to be lost forever. I built my construction company from the ground up, and I passed that business along to my son. The American dream must be available to those who work for it, and an increase in the death tax will destroy the American dream so many have worked to build." In Case You Missed It: To review the Senate Republican Policy Committee's study, click here. For more on the crippling effects of the death tax, read Congressman King's op-ed in the Washington Times: Kill death tax choking the American dream here.
12.11.2012	8 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after honoring deceased veteran Vern Sullivan by presenting his children with medals for his service. King met Vern Sullivan on July 21, 2012 when he stopped into Sully's Bait Shop and Tackle, owned and operated by Sullivan. He expressed to the Congressman that he did not have the medals he earned while serving in the Vietnam War. King and his staff immediately began researching Sullivan's case in order to obtain the medals. Before Sullivan's medals could be identified however, he passed away unexpectedly. His children received his military medals posthumously. "It was an honor to recognize Vern Sullivan for his service in the Vietnam War and to show his children how grateful we are for his service," said King. "When I met Vern I was struck by his patriotism and deep devotion to this country. He understood the importance of this nation, and he embodied what makes us great. There are thousands of unrecognized soldiers- honoring Sully symbolizes our respect for all unrecognized warriors." Behind every soldier decorated with military honors, there are a hundred anonymous heroes, some of them greater. Erik Hazelhoff Roelfzema ? Vern Sullivan's children Vern Sullivan Jr., Kary Dean and Lisa Hansel accept their father's medals for service during the Vietnam War from Congressman King. In Case You Missed It: KCAU: Veteran's family receives war medal after father's death Read more here. KTIV: Vietnam Veteran's family accepts medals for father's service Read more here.
12.10.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today to announce he will be closing offices in Creston, Council Bluffs and Storm Lake because of redistricting and will be using the limited resources to open offices in Ames, Fort Dodge and Mason City. Staff additions will be Jeremy Davis in Ames, Jim Oberhelman in Fort Dodge and State Senator Merlin Bartz in Mason City. Details on exact locations will be announced at a later date. The three new offices will be in addition to existing offices in Sioux City and Spencer. "I am very pleased to add three new outstanding district representatives to our team and I know that they will serve this district and my constituents faithfully," said King. "They bring unique skill sets to the table and I look forward to working with each of them as we work to represent all of the people in the new Fourth District." Ames- Jeremy Davis Since 2007, Jeremy Davis has worked as an Executive Officer for the Iowa College Student Aid Commission and served as the agency's legislative liaison to various Congressional offices and federal departments. Davis has also served on the Ames City Council since 2010 and recently completed a two-year term on the Ames Economic Development Commission Board of Directors. He previously worked at Iowa State University as an Enrollment Services Advisor. Davis completed his Bachelor's and Master's of Science Degrees in Agricultural Education along with a Master's of Education Degree in Higher Education- all from Iowa State University. Fort Dodge- Jim Oberhelman Jim Oberhelman brings 15 years of experience as a Regional Representative and the U.S. Military Academy Coordinator for Congressman Tom Latham. In his position he handled county outreach, constituent casework and ran the Military Academy Selection Board. Since 2007, he has also served as the Co-Chairman of the Webster County Republican Party and previously worked in the State of Iowa House of Representatives. Oberhelman attended Iowa State University and the University of Iowa. Mason City- Merlin Bartz Elected in 2008, Merlin Bartz is currently the Iowa State Senator from the 6th District. From 2002-2004 he served as the Special Assistant to the Under Secretary of Natural Resources and Environment and the Midwest Regional Assistant Chief at National Resources Conservation Service from 2004-2007. He previously served in the Iowa House of Representatives from 1991-1993 and the Iowa Senate from 1993-2002. Bartz was also Senate Assistant Majority Leader in the 77th, 78th and 79th General Assemblies. He attended school at Luther College and received a Bachelor of Arts in music and political science.
11.30.2012	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King spoke on the House floor in support of H.R. 6429, the STEM Jobs Act of 2012, before voting in favor of the bill today. The STEM Jobs Act eliminates the Diversity Visa lottery and redirects up to 55,000 green cards a year to foreign graduates of qualified U.S. universities who receive their doctorate or masters degrees in science, technology, engineering or math (STEM) fields. To view Congressman King's speech, click the video or link below: To view Congressman King's Speech, click here. "I have served on the Immigration Subcommittee for ten years. In that period of time I have sat in on dozens and scores and perhaps hundreds of hearings during that period of time and gathered information and a knowledge base on these issues. I walked into this issue as a freshman Member of Congress ten years ago with this statement: 'The immigration policy that we have in this country needs to be designed to enhance the economic, the social and the cultural well being of the United States of America.' In fact, every country's immigration policy should fit that standard. We can have debates about the definitions of those three words that are part of that direction, but what's going on here is eliminating a really foolish policy that we had. I have long been for the repeal of the Visa Diversity Lottery program and I have long been for setting up a system so that we can promote the economic, social, and cultural well being of the United States through our policies. Some of the information in hearings we only control with our immigration policy depending on whose numbers you want to look at. Between 7 and 11 percent of the legal immigrants coming into this country are on merit. We only control between 7 and 11 percent of the legal immigration to this country on merit. The rest of that doesn't have anything to do with the merits and how they contribute to the U.S. This bill does do that. I support H.R. 6429 and I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of it."
11.28.2012	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after joining Senator Chuck Grassley (IA), Senator Mark Udall (CO), and Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-11) for a press conference sponsored by the Truman Project's clean energy campaign Operation Free to discuss the wind Production Tax Credit (PTC). Forty veterans who now work in the wind industry came to promote wind as a cost-competitive option for lowering energy costs for Americans. Congressman King speaks today with Senators Udall and Grassley, Congressman McNerney, and Operation Free Spokesman Mike Breen. Congressman King also met with Iowa Veterans Troy Ellis and Shannon Lehmkuhl who now both work in the wind industry. "I was pleased to join Senator Grassley, Senator Udall, and Congressman McNerney today to highlight the importance of the wind PTC, because Congress and the taxpayers have made an investment in wind," said King. "Now is the time to offer predictability to this vibrant industry. Government has to be engaged in wind energy to provide the market access that all other renewable fuels received when first entering the marketplace. Until wind gets market access, there is no competition for cost. Government must provide the incentive for people to risk capital until the wind industry can provide it on its own. If you have put your life on the line as a member of our armed services, you deserve to find quality jobs when you return. Today I once again renew my commitment to aiding this industry to gain the market access it needs and for veterans to find work that can support them and their families."
11.21.2012	5 Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after cutting the ribbon at the grand opening and dedication ceremony for the newly finished four-lane section of US highway 20 between Rockwell City and Early today. King has been a vocal advocate for this project for decades. Throughout his time in Congress, King has helped to secure more than $26 million in federal funds for completion of four-lane Highway 20 and the program included $101.7 million total in funding. Congressman Steve King cuts the ribbon to new four-lane US Highway 20 with (left to right): Shirley Phillips, President of the US Hwy 20 Association; Governor Terry Branstad; Lt. Governor Kim Reynolds; Congressman Steve King; Paul Trombino, DOT Director. "A four-lane Highway 20 was my number one transportation priority since before I was first elected to the Iowa Senate. I remember how impossible many said it was to overcome all the obstacles," said King. "Cutting this ribbon today symbolizes, not only the opening of an additional 26.2 miles, but that the most difficult obstacles have been overcome. Today, US 20 is a four-lane expressway from Dubuque to Early. This expansion of US 20 will help ensure that economic growth means increased jobs, population, and prosperity for Iowans and those economically connected to Iowa. Today is also a day to celebrate the smart, hard work and perseverance it took to get this job done. I thank all the stakeholders who have worked together to see this segment open and we will continue to work together until we celebrate the opening of the last mile of this important highway. This remains my number one transportation priority as a Member of Congress and it is a victory for western Iowa to see it completed."
11.16.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting to grant Russia and Moldova permanent normal trade relations (PNTR). H.R. 6156, the Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal Act, will allow the United States to benefit from Russia and Moldova's recent admittance to the World Trade Organization (WTO). Russia officially joined the WTO on August 22, 2012, and Moldova joined 2001. As a condition of joining the WTO, both countries have agreed to reduce their trade barriers, enforce intellectual property rights, and abide by international trade mediation. By officially removing an outdated legal barrier, H.R. 6156 will allow the United States, and Iowa in particular, to begin taking advantage of increased trade and export opportunities in Russia and Moldova. The legislation also contains provisions intended to address human rights concerns in Russia due to the death of whistleblower Sergei Maginsky in 2009. "U.S. exports to Russia could double or triple within five years as it reduces its tariffs and trade barriers on goods and services," said King. "The vote I cast today was necessary to open up trade opportunities for Iowa companies and ensure that the United States can take full advantage of Russia's and Moldova's membership in the WTO. Farmers and businesses in Iowa and across the country will benefit from the improved trade relations with Russia. This bill was carefully crafted not just to expand economic opportunities here in America, but also to promote the Rule of Law and human rights in Russia, and I hope it receives quick passage in the Senate and is signed into law."
11.14.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King returned to Washington yesterday, resolved to continue his work on the 2012 Farm Bill and to encourage his House colleagues to bring the bill to the House Floor for a vote. In light of the urgency of passing a farm bill before the end of the year, Congressman King released the following statement: "I'm back in Washington and anxious to get back to work on the many important issues facing this Lame Duck session of Congress," said King. "Among these is the Farm Bill. I will continue to work with Chairman Lucas, my colleagues on the Agriculture Committee and House Leadership to push for a vote on the version of the Farm Bill passed back in July by the House Agriculture Committee. Our farmers and producers need predictability going into next year. They shouldn't have to fear the possibility of the current Farm Bill expiring and reverting back to arcane agriculture laws. While it is not uncommon for Farm Bills to be extended several times before a new Farm Bill is passed, it is my hope that we can avoid extensions and pass the House Farm Bill in the Lame Duck session. Then we can work to iron out the differences with the Senate bill in a conference committee and get a final bill to the President's desk so it can be signed into law."
11.01.2012	Sioux City, IA- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today in response to Governor Branstad's announcement that CF Industries will be investing $1.7 billion to expand its Port Neal facility in Woodbury County. The project will be the largest capital investment in state history and will bring 100 high paying permanent jobs and between 1,500-2,000 construction jobs to the area. "The expansion that will take place right here in Sioux City will be extremely beneficial to the heart of the heartland," said King. "I am delighted that CF Industries is making this investment in our community. Steve Wilson, CEO of CF industries saw how the worst of the flooding was handled last year and it gave him confidence that they could build here. This is an example of how agriculture can drive industrial development. I have always known that all new wealth comes from the land- and from the field to the farm, and from the farm to the cities. This is an example of what I've been describing for years, and it's the best example in the history of Iowa."
10.31.2012	6 Storm Lake, IA-Congressman Steve King (IA-05) released the following statement after hosting Congressman Tim Huelskamp (KS-01) at lunch yesterday with students at Storm Lake Elementary school. King introduced the "No Hungry Kids Act" with Huelskamp as original cosponsor in response to the new USDA lunch standards. The "No Hungry Kids Act" repeals the United States Department of Agriculture rule that created the new standards, prohibits the USDA's upper caloric limits, and will protect the rights of parents to send their children to school with the foods of their choice. Congressman King and Congressman Huelskamp speak with students at Storm Lake Elementary. "I am grateful I could join students and faculty at Storm Lake Elementary who are coping with the new overbearing USDA lunch standards," said King. "I saw firsthand how President Obama, his wife, and his administration's rationing of food to students is completely out of hand. This nanny state has gone overboard in determining what children eat- kids should be able to eat all of the healthy, nutritious school food they want. The 'No Hungry Kids Act' puts the power back in the hands of parents and directs the USDA to reevaluate the standards and prohibits the USDA from putting all kids on a diet just because some are overweight." "As I have traveled throughout Kansas and visited with students and parents about the new school lunch mandates all they want is for Washington to trust the judgment of parents and school districts to decide what is best for their children," Congressman Huelskamp said. "This latest power grab from USDA bureaucrats in the form of menu mandates is a step in the wrong direction. Instead of increasing local control to fit the needs and diversity of each school district, this mandate imposes yet another one-size-fits-all dictate for the entire nation. I am excited to sponsor with Congressman King 'The No Hungry Kids Act' in order to put parents school districts back in charge of the school lunch program, and was delighted to join him here in Iowa today." To learn more about the "No Hungry Kids Act," click here.
10.26.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement to highlight the Democratic Party opposition to the Farm Bill: "In Iowa, President Obama pointed fingers at everyone but members of his own party for holding up the passage of the Farm Bill," said King. "President Obama's administration, including Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, should be more focused on convincing their Democratic colleagues why the Farm Bill is important for rural America, instead of spending time traveling throughout Iowa trying to convince us. Iowans already understand why the Farm Bill programs are critical to producers and farmers." ICYMI: Below is a compilation of members of the Democratic party who vocally oppose the bipartisan Farm Bill: • Secretary Tom Vilsack said "...the House Republicans have added new uncertainty for rural America." USDA Statement • House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi is "troubled by the food stamp cuts" and said the cuts in the farm bill "are totally unacceptable." The Hill • House Agriculture Ranking Member Colin Peterson said ""Some won't vote for a farm bill if there is one dollar in cuts to food stamps." The Hill • Assistant Democratic Leader Jim Clyburn "[warned] the House Agriculture Committee that to proceed with planned food stamp cuts is an "abomination." Politico • House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer "has strong concerns" about the food stamp cuts agreed on by the House Agriculture Committee. The Hill • California Democrat Rep. Lynn Woolsey said, ""These cuts are a slap in the face to millions of people trying to make ends meet." US News and World Report • Connecticut Democrat Rep. Rosa DeLauro even went as far as to "[urge] Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and other Democratic leaders to oppose the bill. 'No farmer is being cut back. They are being made whole," she said. "The people are getting screwed in this process are the people who can least afford it.' " The Hill ###
10.16.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after Governor Branstad and Lt. Governor Reynolds announced that Benjamin Victor will be creating the Norman Borlaug statue to be placed in the United States Capitol. Norman Borlaug, an agronomist, received the Nobel Peace Prize, Presidential Medal of Freedom and Congressional Gold Medal for his contributions to increasing food stability. Victor was chosen by the Borlaug Statue Committee, created in 2011, when the Iowa legislature approved Governor Branstad's resolution that directed a statue of Borlaug to be placed in the Capitol. "Dr. Norman Borlaug was a hero for Iowa, America and the world," said King. "When I first met him, I concluded I wanted to one day see his statue standing in our nation's capitol alongside other great leaders. Borlaug was one of history's rare blends of genius, insight, instinct, and persistence. His life's work is credited with saving as many as a billion people from starving to death. No one has made Iowans more proud. I look forward to the statue created by Benjamin Victor. I'm confident he will do Dr. Borlaug the honor he deserves."
10.12.2012	6 Washington, DC-Congressman Steve King released the following statement after being presented with the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence today at the Pella Corporation headquarters in Carroll, Iowa. The award recognizes his support of policies critical to the success of manufacturing in Iowa and across the United States. Members of Congress who maintained a voting record of 70 percent or higher during the 112th Congress (2011-2012) based on key votes selected by an NAM member-led advisory committee receive the Award. Charles Sukup, Sukup Manufacturing, Jeff Heuton, Human Resources Manager, Pella Corporation Carroll Operations, Congressman King, and Myron Linn, Governmental Affairs Manager, Pella Corporation. "I ran for Congress because as an owner of a small business I knew that if the government policies encroaching on businesses weren't reformed, the entrepreneurial spirit of our country would dramatically suffer," said Congressman King. "Employees at the Pella plant in Carroll, and at the 418 manufacturing facilities across the 5th district, know that the tax structure and regulations put into place in Washington need to encourage American manufacturing growth. A strong economy is built on the foundation of a solid manufacturing base, and I appreciate the recognition from the National Association of Manufacturers." "We thank Congressman King for ensuring that the manufacturing voice is heard in Washington," said Pella Corporation Governmental Affairs Manager Myron Linn. "It is leaders like Congressman King who know that manufacturers help drive vital economic growth, job creation and ultimately prosperity." "Manufacturers today compete in a global marketplace," said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. "It is critical that Washington createspolicies to keep us competitive and maintain our mantle of economic leadership. Congressman King understands this and has consistently supported the pro-manufacturing agenda through his votes in Congress." ###
10.04.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today in support of Congressman Tim Huelskamp (R-KS) issuing the Nutrition Nanny challenge to top USDA officials to "embrace the calorie limits and diet restrictions associated with the new mandates." On Monday, the USDA Deputy Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services Dr. Janey Thorton, the official responsible for implementing the new school lunch mandates, blogged in response to increasing criticism over the USDA's call for parents to replicate meals that their children are being forced to eat in school cafeterias at home. "My legislation, the "No Hungry Kids Act", was introduced in direct response to the USDA and Secretary Vilsack's directive to put every child on a diet," said King. "The USDA's school lunch requirements are only hindering, not helping, the growth of our school children. This kind of overregulation- rationing food, limiting meat consumption and putting every child on a diet- is the outcome of an ever expanding nanny state. I support this challenge from Congressman Huelskamp to USDA employees. I too, ask that the USDA have its cafeteria meet the same standards as the 100,000 school districts that they have demanded change their menus and see how just how far 850 calories can take them." To learn more about the lunch standards and the reaction from students and parents around the nation, visit www.facebook.com/NutritionNannies
09.28.2012	America has the strongest and finest fighting force the world has ever known, and for the past several years, much of that fighting force has been focused on restoring peace and bringing prosperity to the Middle East and Afghanistan. That region, which has harbored the militants who attacked our nation on Sept. 11, 2001, is home to much instability and insecurity. The recent attacks on U.S. embassies in Libya, Egypt, Yemen and Sudan and the horrific and tragic murder of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and his staff serve as stark reminders of the volatility that grips the region. We shouldn't apologize to anyone who kills innocent Americans. Instead of apologies, we need leadership. But President Obama has not led. His administration has conveyed a devastating image of a weak and apologetic America to our friends and enemies around the world. He has not provided a clear vision for the future of the Middle East and North Africa. Weak foreign policy — especially as it pertains to this troubled and volatile region — has helped plant the seeds and fan the flames of the violent actions of emboldened radical groups throughout the region. Obama and his administration originally accepted claims that a 14-minute anti-Islamic video was the cause of the ambassador's death. This was not a reaction to a YouTube video; this was an assassination to coincide with the 9/11 anniversary. My colleague, Chairman Mike Rogers of the House Intelligence Committee, is privy to the very latest intelligence and has related that the intelligence he's seen points to this as a timed, coordinated attack. The actions by the State Department immediately to apologize for the content of the video speaks volumes of the Obama administration's approach to foreign policy and its view of the United States' role in the world and the Middle East. The Obama administration has now paid $70,000 to purchase ads on Pakistani television declaring that the YouTube video does not accurately reflect the sentiment of the United States. During his remarks to the United Nations General Assembly on Wednesday, President Obama acknowledged that he believes it's OK for nations not to restrict free speech, saying, "Now, I know that not all countries in this body share this particular understanding of the protection of free speech. We recognize that." Why should the United States recognize and accept that some countries around the world will stifle its citizens free exercise of their words and beliefs? Even after the attacks in Benghazi, the Obama administration was slow to label the violence for what it was: terrorism. Statements by administration mouthpieces like Susan Rice, claiming that these attacks were perpetrated spontaneously by small numbers of people, are absurd. Rocket-propelled grenades and assorted heavy weapons were used, which points to premeditation and coordination. It was more than a week after the attack before White House Press Secretary Jay Carney would state that it was "self-evident that what happened in Benghazi was a terrorist attack." It took more than a week for the Obama administration to come to come to terms with the "self-evident" fact that the attacks were ignited by terrorists — a fact that most Americans realized soon after the news hit. America and the world need leadership from the president of the United States when it comes to our nation's foreign policy, and President Obama has failed on this front. The war on terrorism is not over and won. Radicalism and hatred of America still exist. President Obama must understand the depth of radical Islam's hatred for the United States and the degree to which terrorists will go to carry out their extremist mission. There are no negotiations or qualifications to discuss when innocent Americans are killed simply to satisfy terrorists' bloodlust. We do not apologize or assume that we have been misunderstood. We stand our ground. We stand to protect our cherished way of life, and we stand for those who lost their lives on Sept. 11 and those who answered the call to bring democracy's message to a volatile land, so that we could enjoy peace and security. Our goal is freedom, and our cause is just.
09.25.2012	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after touring the nearly completed four-lane section of US Highway 20 between Rockwell City and Early today. King has been instrumental in helping to secure funds for the project during his time in Congress. Mainline paving of US 20, east of US 71, was completed today and the Congressman's tour marked this important milestone. King had the opportunity to use the mainline, see the progress and discuss his continued support to complete a four-lane US 20 across the state of Iowa. Congressman King helps to pave the almost completed section of Highway 20 today. "We expect this road to open in November, and when that happens, all the traffic that travels east will be traveling on a four lane highway," said King. "We started paving on October 18th, 2011, and they've moved the paving machine east all the way to Rockwell City and all the way back to US Highway 71. This will result in a 52.4 mile loop that has been paved in 11 months and when the shouldering, signage and the paving is completed, we can cut the ribbon to open a whole new stretch of highway in November this year."
09.20.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting for H.J. Res. 118, a joint resolution that will prevent President Obama's administration from following through with their plans to weaken welfare work requirements: "I had thought it was settled that welfare work requirements were a positive development in the effort to wean people off government dependence and towards self-sufficiency," said King. "But now the Obama Administration is attempting, in violation of the bipartisan 1996 welfare reform law that was signed by President Clinton, to weaken those very reforms that have made such a positive impact on so many Americans' lives. We must stop the Obama Administration's latest attempt to expand the welfare rolls and encourage dependency, and instead reinstate the reforms that have encouraged millions of Americans to realize their full potential."
09.20.2012	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after receiving the "Golden Turkey" award from the Republican Study Committee. The award highlights "absurd-though obscure- government regulations." King received the award for introducing the "No Hungry Kids Act," in response to new lunch standards from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). The "No Hungry Kids Act" repeals the USDA rule that created the new standards, prohibits the USDA's upper caloric limits, and protects the right of parents to send their children to school with the foods of their choice. Congressman King receives the "Golden Turkey" Award from Republican Study Committee Chairman Jim Jordan today. "Identifying the overreach of the expanding nanny state has shown me that President Obama's administration has developed a tremendous appetite for consuming our natural liberty," said King. "The USDA is now rationing food to our kids. Our growing kids need all of the healthy and nutritious food that they can eat. They are not overweight because of school lunches. These rationing rules were not directed by law- they were manufactured by President Obama and Secretary Vilsack's USDA." To learn more about the lunch standards and the reaction from students and parents around the nation,visit www.facebook.com/NutritionNannies
09.17.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement to commemorate Constitution Day, marking the 225th year since the signing of the Constitution of the United States of America. King is a member of the House Judiciary Constitution Subcommittee and is never caught without a copy of the Constitution in his pocket. "Today is a day for celebration and a day to remember the inspired document that governs our nation and embodies the principles that have made this nation great," said King. "At the start of every session of Congress since first being elected, I have placed my hand on the Bible and have taken an oath to support and defend the Constitution, and I take the responsibility very seriously. Our Founding Fathers knew what a tremendous threat large and overbearing government would place on individual liberties. This theme is woven into the Constitution like threads in an intricate and beautiful tapestry. The Constitution will endure and the people of this nation will flourish if we return to the values upheld in this document."
09.14.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after introducing the "No Hungry Kids Act" with original co-sponsor Congressman Tim Huelskamp (R-KS). The bill was introduced in response to recently released school lunch standards from United State Department of Agriculture (USDA) that have left children around the nation hungry during their school day due to extreme calorie rationing. The "No Hungry Kids Act" repeals the USDA rule that created the new standards, prohibits the USDA's upper caloric limits, and will protect rights of parents to send their children to school with the foods of their choice. "For the first time in history, the USDA has set a calorie limit on school lunches," said King. "The goal of the school lunch program was- and is- to ensure students receive enough nutrition to be healthy and to learn. The misguided nanny state, as advanced by Michelle Obama's "Healthy and Hunger Free Kids Act," was interpreted by Secretary Vilsack to be a directive that, because some kids are overweight, he would put every child on a diet. Parents know that their kids deserve all of the healthy and nutritious food they want." To read Congressman King's Op-ed on the new USDA School Lunch regulations, click here. "The goal of the school lunch program is supposed to be feeding children, not filling the trash cans with uneaten food," said Huelskamp. "The USDA's new school lunch guidelines are a perfect example of what is wrong with government: misguided inputs, tremendous waste, and unaccomplished goals. Thanks to the Nutrition Nannies at the USDA, America's children are going hungry at school."
09.14.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement regarding the EPA's announcement today that it will approve an expansion of the the 2013 Bio-diesel Renewable Fuel Standard requirement to 1.28 Billion gallons. The current RFS regulation for Bio-diesel was set at 1 Billion gallons for 2013 with the flexibility that higher allowances would be granted if the industry could present a case for a need for such an increase. "My congratulations to the Bio-diesel Industry for their tremendous work to get the Bio-diesel RFS expanded from the current 1 Billion gallons in 2013 to 1.28 Billion gallons," said King. "The industry has shown we have sufficient feedstocks available to meet the RFS and that we have the capacity to produce even more than 1.28 Billion gallons. This change will add to our growing ability to produce homegrown, clean burning, renewable fuels."
09.12.2012	6 Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after joining several Iowans at the "Farm Bill Now" rally that was held in Washington today. The rally was aimed at helping to build momentum behind the effort to get a Farm Bill passed by Congress. Congressman King with members of the Iowa Farm Bureau at the "Farm Bill Now" Rally today. "I was pleased to attend today's rally and join members of the Iowa Corn Growers Association and the Farm Bureau in calling for swift action on the Farm Bill," said King. "For weeks I've been working with House leaders and rank and file members of both parties to try to build a bipartisan coalition to get the bill to the House floor, get it passed, and get it to Conference with the Senate. "We passed a Farm Bill out of the House Agriculture Committee with significant bipartisan support in July. We knew bipartisan support was necessary to get the bill through the committee, and I worked with Chairman Lucas, Ranking Member Peterson, and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the Committee to get that done. After it passed the Committee, we knew we'd need that same kind of bipartisan support to move the bill to the House floor and get it passed. Unfortunately, Nancy Pelosi is encouraging her Caucus to oppose the bill because of its reforms of fraud and abuse in the SNAP program, making it difficult to get support from the other side of the aisle. "Apparently, in the weeks leading up to Election Day, Nancy Pelosi sees a political advantage in opposing this bill and whipping a 'nay' vote. But the Farm Bill is too important to play politics. Our farmers and producers need the certainty that comes from a long-term Farm Bill, and they need it now.
09.11.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement in remembrance of the 11th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, when nearly 3,000 innocent men, women and children lost their lives: "Today we remember the innocent lives lost and honor the heroes of the horrible tragedy that took place on September 11, 2001," said King. "No one will ever forget where they were when they first heard the news and watched in shock as our country was attacked. Today, my thoughts and prayers are with the families of those who are still mourning for their lost loved ones. We also owe a great deal of gratitude to the first responders, the men and women in uniform who helped save many lives while risking their own and those who answered the call to continue to defend our freedoms. May we never forget their great service to our country. Eleven years ago, our Nation was attacked in order to divide the American spirit and try to force us to lose hope in a time of tragedy. Yet, Americans came together like never before in a spirit of unity. Let the remembrance of today inspire us to join together with that same compassion and love and once again renew our sense of common purpose as Americans."
09.11.2012	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after receiving the "Ethanol Champion" Award from Growth Energy. Growth Energy represents the producers and supporters of ethanol, and presents this award to members of Congress who have an excellent voting record on critical ethanol issues. Congressman King receives "Ethanol Champion" Award from Chris Bliley, Growth Energy, Amanda Taylor, Iowa Corn Growers Association, Rick Schwarck, Absolute Energy, Lynn Phillips, POET - Coon Rapids, Guy Hartwig, Syngenta, Lucy Norton, Iowa Renewable Fuels Association, Kelly Hansen, POET Biorefining – Hanlontown. "Last week I again had the privilege to shake the hand that pumped the first gallon of ethanol back in the '70's. We have come a long way since that first gallon. Congress has made some big decisions that helped open the doors for renewable fuels. Today, around 24% of the domestically produced gallons pumped into our cars are from corn based ethanol. I am deeply honored to receive this award and look forward to many more successful years with our joint efforts and cooperation."
09.07.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today in response to the U.S. Department of Labor's August jobs report. The report states that the national unemployment rate is 8.1 percent, a number that has been above 8 percent for 43 straight months. Only 96,000 jobs were created and nearly 370,000 more Americans gave up looking for work last month. "Today's jobs report reflects our nation's stagnant economy, and with the policies of President Obama in place we can expect to see more of the same," said King. "When the stimulus was signed into law, his administration claimed unemployment would be less than 5.5 percent today. His tax-and-spend, Keynesianism-on-steroids policies have failed, and this report shows that the President does not know how to handle this great challenge facing our nation. The numbers in this report are not just numbers- they represent our neighbors, family and friends in Iowa and around the country who are struggling to find work, or have given up hope altogether. With more and more Americans giving up on looking for a job, our time for solving these problems is closing in. I knew when I started my business that government does not create jobs, but it can help to foster an environment for growth and development in our economy. We stand at a crossroads- we can choose more burdensome regulations and an unstable economy, or we can choose solutions that will reenergize Americans and get them back to work."
09.04.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the gross national debt reaching $16 trillion today: "Today's milestone has come much quicker than any American could have predicted just four years ago," said King. "It's staggering to realize that nearly one-third of the $16 trillion debt total was acquired during President Obama's presidency. Yesterday President Obama gave himself an 'incomplete' grade on how he's handled the economy, but the American people know that his current policies have failed and won't fix the debt. We must act now. The only way to get our fiscal house in order is to vote for a new president, one who will bring with him to the White House a mandate from the American people to get a balanced budget amendment sent to the states for ratification. This will begin to ratchet down the spending path this president has put us on. This President has had his chance, and it is now up to us to ensure that a brighter fiscal future is in store for our children and grandchildren."
08.29.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after the Department of Transportation (DOT) awarded a grant to construct a new airport in Sioux Center, Iowa: "I have been a long time supporter of the Sioux County Regional Airport and the DOT's announcement today helps move us another step closer to completing this new airport facility," said King. "This airport will promote economic development in the region, attract new businesses and expand opportunities for the surrounding communities. I commend Sioux County, Sioux Center and Orange City for their hard work, determination and cooperation to help make this project a reality. "
08.22.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today in response to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report predicting that a "deep recession" is imminent if Democrats continue to avoid Republican proposals that protect from the looming fiscal cliff: "The CBO says the fiscal cliff we are heading for on January 1st will cause a recession," said King. "The House has passed legislation to ward off the fiscal cliff, both by voting to prevent next year's massive tax increases and to replace the sequester's across-the-board spending cuts with targeted cuts and reforms aimed at cracking down on waste, fraud, and abuse. The National Federation of Independent Business released their quadrennial small business survey today and it shows that 'uncertainty over economic conditions' and 'uncertainty over government actions' are the top issues facing small businesses. We have offered our solutions to the American people- it's time for the Senate and the President to follow our lead and do the same. This fiscal cliff is preventable. Right now the will to balance the budget does not exist in Congress. The American people must elect a new President with a mandate to force Congress to send a balanced budget amendment to the States."
08.21.2012	Sioux City, IA- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after receiving the "Standing up for America's Seniors Award" today from the RetireSafe organization. RetireSafe is a grassroots organization that advocates and educates on behalf of America's seniors on issues regarding Social Security, Medicare, health and financial well being. According to RetireSafe, the organization is "continuing its recognition of Members of Congress who are not afraid to stand up for America's seniors. The award this summer will focus on those Members who have stood up for seniors by guarding their rights, protecting the benefits that they have earned and watching over seniors both nationally and locally." Tony Reiss, consultant- RetireSafe, Yana Jurovitzki- RetireSafe director of communications & advocacy-, Congressman Steve King, Brenda Winkler- Leukemia & Lymphoma Society of Iowa, Doug Getter- retired constituent, Steve Fox- constituent from Sioux City "Considering the well being of seniors in Iowa and across our nation is a top priority of mine in Congress," said King. "Protecting and strengthening Social Security and Medicare is vital to getting both our fiscal house in order and will help provide the stability seniors need. I appreciate the recognition from RetireSafe today as I continue to fight for initiatives that are critically important to our nation's seniors, like the repeal of ObamaCare and other threats to their health care independence."
08.16.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the first day that an estimated 1 million illegal aliens will begin to be granted amnesty through an Executive Order President Obama put into place that implements the policies of the DREAM Act legislation that Congress rejected. "We are talking about a Constitutional issue, not an immigration issue," said King. "This lawless president doesn't keep his own oath of office, and there are only a few ways to stop this Constitutional breech of authority- and one way is to get the courts to block it. I said that I would bring a lawsuit against the President and that process is underway. With just a few puzzle pieces to get in the right place, I will soon file that lawsuit. Just because President Obama continues to ignore the line, doesn't mean there isn't one, and he's beyond crossing it."
08.08.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman King released the following statement today regarding the announcement that President Obama will visit western Iowa next week. Twice in the past year, King has written to Obama to ask him to make time to visit the communities in western Iowa hardest hit by last year's historic flooding during his previous trips to the state. Despite the requests, Obama did not visit western Iowa during either trip. "Regardless of his motives, I am glad President Obama will visit western Iowa," said King. "Twice in the last 14 months, I've asked the President to make time in his previous trips to Iowa to visit the communities and individuals in western Iowa impacted by last year's historic flooding along the Missouri River. Both requests fell on deaf ears. Now, when drought is a more pressing concern, he will come and I hope he takes time from his political activities to visit those still recovering from excess water and at the same time dealing with too little moisture this year. It's frustrating that we're nearly a year removed from last year's flooding and still no significant actions have been taken to provide those who live and work in the River Basin with any additional flood protection. I've offered the solution for increased protection in the form of legislation, H.R. 2942, to require an increase in Missouri River reservoir system's flood storage capacity. But I've had to go as far as adding legislative language to the Farm Bill to try to force this administration to engage in this issue. For the first time in my memory, Iowans need flood protection and drought relief simultaneously. The Obama Administration has resisted taking a position on flood protection while Senate Democrats killed drought disaster relief for Iowa producers. We need to pass a Farm Bill and I hope the President meets with real Iowans who will tell him the same thing."
08.06.2012	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King toured the damaged pasture and row crop fields at the Utesch farm on Saturday, August 4th. The Utesch family has a diversified farming operation consisting of a cow calf herd, a beef feedlot and row crops. Congressman Steve King with the Utesch brothers- Craig and Brad, in front of the chopper while reviewing the drought impact at Triple U Ranch. "I would like to thank the Utesch family for allowing me to get an on the ground look at the effects of this record breaking drought," King said. "I travel through the Iowa countryside nearly every week and I have watched as this summer's dry weather has taken its toll on our crops and pastures. It's helpful to get a better perspective on the situation by discussing the issue with producers as they adjust their operations to cope with the drought. This tour only deepened my belief that we need a Farm Bill to give our nation's farmers the predictability and stability in Washington, especially during this historic drought. The Utesch family, like all Iowa families, is resourceful and resilient, they will work through this disaster and I will continue to support practical policies and common sense solutions at the Federal level to assist them."
08.03.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after introducing the Sunset Act, H.R. 6333. The Sunset Act would require Congress to take an up or down vote on all new rules and regulations put forth by federal departments and agencies, recognizing that even rules that aren't intended to have substantial economic impacts can have an outsized affect on small business and job creators. The legislation would also require that all current regulations be sunsetted and voted on by Congress for renewal. "All businesses face regulatory burdens, yet currently there is no check for Congress to reign in these rules and regulations that Executive agencies, led by unelected bureaucrats, put into place," said King. "The Sunset Act requires Congressional approval for all new rules and would incrementally sunset all existing regulations, requiring Congress to revisit them every ten years. The Sunset Act will help to ensure that rules and regulations churned out by Washington bureaucrats are necessary and helpful, not burdensome and problematic. The role of government is to enforce the law, not create onerous red tape for entrepreneurs and businesses. Americans must be able to hold their elected officials accountable for the rules and regulations that the federal government imposes upon them, and the Sunset Act will do just that." 0
08.02.2012	King Supports Drought Relief; Re-emphasizes Need for Farm Bill Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting in favor of legislation passed by the House to provide drought relief to agriculture producers hard hit by the severe, record dry spell affecting much of the country. In a statement submitted for floor debate of the measure, King noted that while the relief measure will be helpful, especially to Iowa's livestock producers, the need for action on the Farm Bill is growing by the day. "I am pleased that the House acted today to provide some assistance to those in our state's and nation's ag community who have been hit hard by this record drought," said King. "I am troubled, though, that our leaders here in the House decided that this is all the legislative action that could be mustered to support the ag industry. I worked hard with the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Committee to pass a bi-partisan Farm Bill out of the House Agriculture Committee. In the weeks since the Committee's approval of the bill, I have been urging House leaders to bring the bill to the floor for a vote." "Conversations I've had with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle tell me that the votes are there to get the Farm Bill through the House and to Conference with the Senate. As I travel across the Fifth District during the August district work period to meet with farmers and producers, I will continue working with Chairman Lucas, Ranking Member Peterson and my colleagues on the House Agriculture Committee to press for action on the Farm Bill. The agriculture community needs predictability."
08.02.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following video statement after the House Judiciary Committee Hearing and press conference today on his bill, H.R. 997, the English Language Unity Act: To watch Congressman King's full statement, click here. "Today we had the hearing over the English Language Unity Act, H.R. 997, which is the bill that I've introduced in Congress which establishes English as the official language of the United States. It is necessary that we do this. Every other country that I can think of has at least one official language. Almost all the population has an official language. Immigrants that come here into America expect that English is the official language of the United States and are often surprised that it's not. The circumstances are this. President Clinton issued an executive order, 13166, back in the 90's that compels the government agencies to essentially promote multilingualism by providing interpreters and services - in whatever language might be requested, by whoever shows up, at whatever government office. We are spending billions on interpreters and on multiple printings. We need to have one common form of communications currency, and that is English in this country. And we are very fortunate that it is English. So there is something that seems to be wrong with this. We are borrowing 40 cents out of every dollar that we are spending, and a lot of that's coming from foreign countries. And you will hear in the streets of Iowa and across America that we are borrowing money from the Saudis, and we are borrowing money from the Chinese - and we are using that borrowed money to hire interpreters in languages that come from all places in the world. And as those interpretations are taking place, we are spending unnecessary money - borrowed money - to help people access government services in their language, so we can understand how to go further into debt. It's wrong to do that. H.R. 997 fixes that and a lot of other things and brings us together as one people."
08.01.2012	"Today, I voted to prevent the largest tax increase in American history, which is scheduled to occur beginning in 2013," said King. "This tax increase will hit all Americans. The lowest income tax rate will jump by half, from 10% to 15%. It will also raise taxes on the 95% of small businesses that pay taxes through the individual tax code." "Importantly, the bill I supported today will also prevent the Death Tax from skyrocketing on January 1st. It is diabolical to put individuals and families in the precarious position of having to make life and death decisions with a massive increase in the death tax looming at the end of the year."
07.26.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following video after questioning witnesses in a committee on Small Business Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy and Trade hearing today on the harmful impact of Non-Tariff Barriers to farm exports and rural economic growth. King likened the international trade issue to his legislation, the Protect Interstate Commerce Act (PICA). PICA prohibits states from entering into trade protectionism by forcing cost prohibitive production methods on farmers in other states. To watch Congressman King's full questioning and statement, click here. "What you have identified Mr. Boyer, is the trade protectionism by regulating the means or method of production. When that happens from a foreign country, we see that as trade protectionism. When that happens within the United States, state to state, it's still trade protectionism. The Constitution of the United States reserves the regulation of interstate commerce to the Congress and prohibits it to the states for that very reason, because they didn't want to set up trade wars between the states. Now we are seeing this emerge in the ag community, with regulations of gestation crates, stalls for veal calves, how you feed ducks and geese for liver, the egg piece, and it will be broilers next. I am just suggesting that the language that we have written into the Farm Bill now, that prohibits the states from regulating the means of production of ag products as an important of piece of language in legislation, must go into law or we will see in the U.S. trade wars, by regulating the means of production, that are worse than the trade competition that you have testified to today."
07.25.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after meeting with the Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee and his Republican colleagues on the Committee late this afternoon. The goal was to chart a way forward with House Leaders on the Farm Bill and other legislation aimed at addressing the record drought that is currently affecting large portions of the United States, including Iowa. "As I have said for months, we need a Farm Bill," said King. "Farmers and producers rely on the predictability that a Farm Bill provides to make decisions about their operations for next year. Current authorization for federal farm programs will expire on September 30. This would be a troubling situation in any year, but with the record drought that's currently scorching Iowa and so many other states, the need for a Farm Bill - and the disaster assistance programs contained within it - is critical. "I joined 79 other House Members in a bi-partisan letter to our leaders urging swift action on the bill, and I will continue to work with Chairman Lucas, Ranking Member Peterson, my Ag Committee colleagues, and every other interested Member in pressing House leaders to bring this bill to a vote before we return to our districts for the August work period. And I will also continue to work with my colleagues from Iowa to push for other legislative measures, like the Agriculture Disaster Assistance Act that we introduced as a state delegation, to specifically address some of the harmful effects of this drought. Since May, I have said I want this done by August. The drought makes its passage urgent, now."
07.24.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement to announce that Rural Development funds will be used to build a 19-bed replacement Critical Access Hospital, medical clinic and areas for ancillary services at the Sioux Center Community Hospital and Health Center in Sioux Center, Iowa: "Today, USDA's Rural Development approved a $26 million loan to help the Sioux Center Community Hospital move forward with their plans to build a new hospital and health center," said King. "I applaud the Sioux Center Community Hospital and its staff for their vision and diligence in moving this project forward. This new hospital will promote economic development within the area by attracting new businesses, families and retirees to Sioux Center and provide for the health needs of the community for years to come. The new building will also expand the Sioux Center Community Hospital's ability to provide quality, cost-effective health care."
07.24.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following video of his speech on the House floor today in support of a bill introduced by Congressman Latham, H.R. 4157, the Preserving Family Farms Act. "When I saw this rule it was appalling to me to think that this was an attempt of this administration, this assault on the sanctity of the family and on the family farm all at the same time," said King. "And as we had a witness come before the Small Business Committee, the assistant Secretary of Labor, under oath, I asked her what was driving this rule? Her answer was that it was driven by data. The highest level of injuries in youth labor are on the farm. So we have to do something to interrupt this injury that's taking place on the farm. So I asked her, what was the second highest level of injury in youth labor? Her answer was: I don't know. Not data driven- it's driven by some misguided ideology. It's also been supported by the Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack. Their team has been working with the Department of Labor. This has not been withdrawn by the administration, Mr. Speaker, for the sake of them understanding that this is a misguided policy decision. It's been withdrawn because it's a misguided political initiative. I am glad that it is temporarily withdrawn. I appreciate the gentleman from Iowa, Mr. Latham, for bringing this legislation, to prohibit this rule from being reintroduced again. Let's protect the tradition that made America great."
07.23.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today to announce a Judiciary Committee hearing on the Official English Act, legislation King has championed since 2003 when he was sworn into Congress, will be held next Thursday, August 2nd. The Official English Act, H.R. 997, declares English as our official language and requires representatives of the federal government to encourage individuals to learn English, establishes a uniform language requirement for naturalization, and requires functions of the United States to be conducted in English. Previously, King led the successful effort to enact legislation establishing English as Iowa's official language as a member of Iowa's Senate. "The Judiciary Committee hearing next week reflects the need to get a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives on this popular issue- 87% of Americans say that English should be the official language of the United States," said King. "A common language is the most powerful source of unifying force for any nation. Over the course of history, common languages have created cohesive cultures and have helped prevent division. I've introduced the Official English Act every session I've been in Congress because I know that an official language will keep this nation bound together and I look forward to next week's hearing. Now we need to get Official English passed into law."
07.19.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman King released the following statement after his Defense of Marriage Act amendment passed on the House floor today. The amendment will require that no money spent on our military will be used to violate the Defense of Marriage Act. "The military is an entity of the federal government, and federal law states that marriage is between a man and a woman," said King. "Despite this, the Obama administration has allowed same sex marriages to occur on military bases. These marriages violate the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). My amendment prohibits the use of both military funds and facilities for same-sex marriages. DOMA was passed by overwhelming majorities in the House and Senate and signed by President Clinton in 1996 and has been the law of the land since that time. But President Obama has ignored it. My amendment is a much needed solution to a problem started by an administration that's prone to ignoring the law - and the American people are through with the law taking a back seat to the President's political whims."
07.19.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following video of his questioning of Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano in a Judiciary Committee Hearing today regarding President Obama's amnesty edict. To watch Congressman King's full questioning of Janet Napolitano click here. "The Founding Fathers envisioned that each branch of government would carefully protect the authority vested within the Constitution....There is a whole list of things that have been done by this president. This one is the most clear," King said in his statement to Napolitano. He continued by explaining that the Obama administration's move to unilaterally grant amnesty to millions of illegal aliens was well beyond the 'prosecutorial discretion.' "I have accepted the prosecutorial discretion when it dealt with individuals, but I do not when it deals with groups of people that are created by a memorandum. And I do not when it deals with a work permit that is ordered to be issued that doesn't exist in the United States Code. That is the province of Congress. I thank you for being here today, but we will see each other down the line in litigation."
07.12.2012	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the House Agriculture Committee passed its version of the 2012 Farm Bill, H.R. 6083, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act of 2012. King gained two legislative victories last night when two amendments he offered during the Committee's markup of the bill were adopted. The first amendment prohibits states from enacting laws that place onerous conditions on the means of production for agricultural goods that are sold within its own borders but are produced in other states. "I am pleased that the Committee passed my amendment, the Protect Interstate Commerce Act (PICA) because states are entering into trade protectionism by requiring cost prohibitive production methods in other states," said King. "PICA blocks states from requiring 'free range' eggs or 'free range' pork but covers all agriculture products listed in section 206 of the Agriculture Marketing Act of 1946. By 2014 California will require only 'free range' eggs be sold and the impact of their large market would compel producers in every other state to invest billions to meet the California standard of "means of production." PICA will ensure that radical organizations like the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) and PETA are prohibited from establishing a patchwork of restrictive state laws aimed at slowly suffocating production agriculture out of existence." The second requires the Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, to take action within his jurisdiction to support efforts to increase the storage capacity in the Missouri River reservoir system that is dedicated to flood control and to increase the channel capacity of the River. "The Committee also passed my amendment to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to support efforts to provide increased flood protection to those devastated by last year's historic flooding along the Missouri River," said King. "The amendment 'directs the Secretary of Agriculture to take action to promote immediate increased flood protection for farmers, producers, and other agricultural interests in the Missouri River basin'." This will protect those in the Missouri River Basin from future serious downstream flooding. I've introduced stand alone legislation, H.R. 2942, to require the Army Corps of Engineers to do this, and through this amendment to the Farm Bill, we've given the Secretary of Agriculture very clear direction to join in the effort to see that this is accomplished. I want to congratulate Chairman Lucas and Ranking Member Peterson for putting together a Farm Bill that received wide, bi-partisan support from the House Agriculture Committee by passing by a vote of 35-11. This is a good bill that will cut spending, offer farmers and producers more choice in the federal support they receive for the work they do, and bring long overdue reform to nutrition programs to weed out waste, fraud, and abuse. The House Farm Bill now has the momentum to claim floor time before the August Recess."
07.11.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after voting to repeal ObamaCare on the House floor today: "After the Supreme Court's disappointing ruling last week I voted again for 100 percent repeal of ObamaCare today," said King. "There is no end to how government can control our lives if ObamaCare remains the law of the land. This unjust law will not improve healthcare and it will only make costs soar. The President's 'solution' brings about more problems than it solves. We must pull this law out by the roots so that our debt can be reigned in, businesses can have assurance about the future and families can afford their health insurance. If Senate Democrats and the President continue to defend their unpopular law, the American people will have the chance to vote for the repeal of ObamaCare in November." To view Congressman King's Editorial "Government's authority to coerce will not end with ObamaCare" originally printed in the Des Moines Register today, click here.
07.10.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today in anticipation of tomorrow's House Agriculture Committee markup of the 2012 Farm Bill. King is a senior member of the Agriculture Committee. "My commitment in this historic markup is to protect the interests of the Corn Belt," said King. "Tomorrow, the process of re-writing the Farm Bill for the next five years begins in the House, with a markup of the legislation in the House Agriculture Committee. It will have a direct impact on our state by refining Title I programs and will offer farmers and producers more options. It will also reduce federal spending by $35 billion over the next ten years by streamlining federal programs, cutting duplicative ones, and reducing fraud and abuse in the food stamp program. As a senior member of the Committee, I look forward to being actively involved in the mark up tomorrow, and I'll go into it with the needs of Iowa's families, farmers, and producers in mind to ensure they have a voice at the table as we move forward on this important legislation."
07.03.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement to commemorate the 236th birthday of our nation: "Tomorrow as celebrations of Independence Day light up our great nation, may we remember the sacrifices of those who have fought to protect our Liberty," said King. "Let us also look forward to the great future in store for our country. In our words and deeds, we can honor our Founding Fathers by showing our personal allegiance. With God given Liberty as its foundation, I strive to uphold the Constitution in my daily dealings in Congress, and I pray that the American people will remember the source of our freedom on this day, and every day."
07.02.2012	We knew ObamaCare was bad from the start, but over 2 years later, we see more signs everday of the law’s harmful effects. In January of 2012, the House passed my language to fully repeal ObamaCare, but now the Supreme Court has declared the individual mandate to be Constitutional under Congress's taxing power. Here you can see the “Facts or Fictions” on what we’ve learned about ObamaCare since the House last acted on full repeal and the Supreme Court announced its decision. ﻿ Fact or Fiction?ObamaCare money has gone to pay for bike paths and grocery stores in Illinois. Fact: In 2011, $4 million of ObamaCare money went to Cook County, Illinois for bike paths, walking trails, and to promote breastfeeding.http://www.mysuburbanlife.com/hodgkins/features/x286169064/Cook-County-doles-ouf-4-million-for-obesity-grants Fact or Fiction? ObamaCare will limit expensive emergency room visits since it throws millions of Americans onto the Medicaid rolls. Fiction: While ObamaCare does throw millions of Americans onto the fiscally unsustainable Medicaid system, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) shows that Medicaid patients visit the emergency room nearly twice as much as the uninsured.http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/hus/hus10.pdf Fact or Fiction?ObamaCare will reduce the financial burden on cash-strapped state governments. Fiction: Reports indicate that ObamaCare will increase Medicaid’s unfunded mandate to states by at least $118 billion.http://energycommerce.house.gov/media/file/PDFs/030111MedicaidReport.pdf Fact or Fiction?ObamaCare implementation would continue to move forward even in the case of a government shutdown. Fact: Because of the unconventional automatic, autopilot appropriations inserted into ObamaCare, even in the case of a funding lapse and government shutdown, implementation of the law would continue to go forward as planned.http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0411/52776.html Fact or Fiction?The Government Accountability Office (GAO) reports that President Obama’s own Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) admits that premiums would go up under ObamaCare if implemented as written. Fact: HHS, when describing its waiver process to the GAO, admitted that waivers were needed because the law, as written, would have led to significant premium increases for the companies who received waivers.http://thehill.com/images/stories/blogs/healthwatch/gaowaivers.pdf Fact or Fiction?The Government Accountability Office (GAO) reports that there are 47 ways in which the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) will be enforcing ObamaCare. Fact: GAO report summarizes that the “IRS has responsibilities in the implementation of 47 PPACA provisions…”http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11719.pdf Fact or Fiction?Obama’s own Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) admits the costs of its rule for “free” preventative care will be passed on to consumers, causing premiums to increase 1.5%. Fact: HHS admits that “The Departments estimate that premiums will increase by approximately 1.5 percent on average for enrollees in non-grandfathered plans. This estimate assumes that any changes in insurance benefits will be directly passed on to the consumer in the form of changes in premiums.”http://www.healthcare.gov/law/resources/regulations/prevention/regs.html Fact or Fiction?New York Times and National Journal show that ObamaCare will increase competition among insurers and hospitals, leading to lower costs for consumers. Fiction: The New York Times actually reports that ObamaCare is likely to prompt a new wave or mergers and consolidations in the health care industry, possibly reducing competition and leading to higher costs. The National Journal indicates that this could increases health care costs by 40%.http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/22/us/22health.html?_r=1http://www.nationaljournal.com/member/magazine/how-the-health-law-could-raise-prices-20120216?mrefid=site_search&page=1 Fact or Fiction?The Obama Administration is forcing private health insurance companies send letters to their customers touting the benefits of ObamaCare. Fact: ObamaCare’s Medical-Loss-Ratio (MLR) regulation forces insurers to tout ObamaCare’s benefits to their customers.http://cciio.cms.gov/resources/factsheets/mlrfinalrule.html Fact or Fiction?The vast majority of small businesses say ObamaCare is not affecting their ability to hire new workers. Fiction: The U.S. Chamber of Commerce reports that 74% of small businesses say ObamaCare is making it harder for them to hire new workers.http://www.uschambersmallbusinessnation.com/uploads/Chamber%20Q4_Summary%20Memo_Final%20.pdf Fact or Fiction?The millions of Americans who had pre-existing conditions before ObamaCare jumped at the opportunity to enter ObamaCare’s new high-risk pool. Fiction: Even after dramatically lowering rates, easing eligibility requirements, and hiring agents to recruit for ObamaCare’s high-risk pool, very few have bothered to enrolled.http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0212/72813.html Fact or Fiction?Physician surveys indicate that doctors favor ObamaCare by a two-to-one margin. Fiction: The Physicians Foundation finds that doctors oppose ObamaCare by a two-to-one margin.http://www.physiciansfoundation.org/uploadedFiles/PF%20Next%20Gen%20Phys%20Survey%20Analysis%20FINAL.pdf Fact or Fiction?President Obama kept his promise not to cut secret deals with special interests and lobbyists in order to advance legislation. Fiction: Emails reveal that the Obama Administration was in constant contact with special interests, wheeling and dealing throughout the entire process to buy off special interests.http://energycommerce.house.gov/News/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=9526 Fact or Fiction?ObamaCare’s small business tax credits are very popular and are helping small businesses throughout the country. Fiction: The Government Accountability Office (GAO) shows that ObamaCare’s small business tax credits are too complex and not big enough for small businesses to benefit.http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-549 “The Facts are clear. ObamaCare must be repealed!”
06.28.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today in response to the Supreme Court declaring the individual mandate to be Constitutional under Congress's taxing power. "Leading up to today, the lower courts were split on a handful of issues," said King. "One issue they were nearly unanimous on was that the individual mandate was not a tax therefore could not be upheld under Congress's power to tax. Today the Supreme Court disagrees with the vast majority of lower court decisions and contradicts President Obama himself, who vehemently denied that the individual mandate was a tax. The fate of ObamaCare is not yet set. The House has voted to pass my language to repeal 100% of ObamaCare. Every Republican Senator has voted to do the same. On the other hand, President Obama and Democrats in Congress remain as committed as ever to forcing the unconstitutional law that bears the President's name upon an unwilling and disapproving public. The choice could not be clearer. The American people should be reminded that there is no force more powerful than their voice. After the passage of ObamaCare, the American people made their disapproval known in a powerful way. Today's decision should renew that call and spirit. The Constitution lays out a government of limited, enumerated powers, and the size and scope of our current government, and specifically ObamaCare, are well beyond what our Founding Fathers ever intended. The American people will decide the fate of ObamaCare."
06.28.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed a resolution finding attorney Eric Holder in Civil Contempt of Congress for refusing to comply with a congressional subpoena for documents relating to the Fast and Furious scandal. The contempt resolution will now be referred to the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia for enforcement of the subpoena. "Over the past year and a half, Congress has been investigating the Fast and Furious scandal, and the fallout from the noncompliance of the Department of Justice was felt today in the House of Representatives," said King. "I fully support the resolutions passed on the House floor today. Congress has the Constitutional authority and obligation to provide oversight. To do so, it must have access to information, and its subpoena power is critical to this. Eric Holder is blocking the same justice he was appointed to uphold - and only time will tell exactly how President Obama was involved."
06.25.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today in reaction to the Supreme Court's decision to strike three of the four key provisions of the Arizona Immigration law, SB1070. "Today the Supreme Court preserved the most important component of the Arizona law- the provision that allows lawenforcement, when reasonable suspicion standards are met, to request that an individual produce identification and verify their immigration status," said King. "This is a significant win when it comes to efforts to increase enforcement of our nation's immigration laws. However, I have serious concerns about the other side of today's ruling, which struck down three other provisions of SB 1070. The three provisions were written to mirror and support federal immigration law. Today's decision makes it harder for states to protect their citizens from the crime wave of illegal immigration driven by drug smuggling. I will now look for a statutory fix that will empower the states. The President refuses to enforce immigration law himself, and he doesn't want anyone else to enforce the laws either."
06.20.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after congratulating Madison Clark of Council Bluffs, Iowa on winning the Fifth District Congressional Art Competition today. Clark's piece, "Abigail," a drawing of her best friend, was selected by a panel of judges from western Iowa and will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol alongside the winning selections from other Congressional Districts across the country. Each winner is given airfare for two to visit Washington, DC for an awards ceremony. Clark aspires to attend art school after she graduates from high school next year. Congressman Steve King stands outside the U.S. Capitol with Madison Clark where her artwork entitled "Abigail" will be on display for one year "I was inspired by Madison's talent and artistic ability," said King. "She was rewarded for taking the initiative to get involved with the Congressional Art competition, and I am sure her hard work will continue to pay off as she pursues her passion for the arts in college and beyond." Congressman King sponsors the Congressional Art Competition each spring, and the contest is open to all Fifth District high school students. Any students or schools interested in participating in next year's Congressional Art Competition should contact Laura Hartman in Congressman King's Creston office at 641-782-2495 for additional information.
06.20.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after President Obama invoked executive privilege to prevent the release of subpoenaed documents regarding Congressional investigations into the Fast and Furious gun runner case. The president's move came just minutes before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee convened to consider a resolution to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for refusing to provide documents surrounding the Fast and Furious scandal to the Committee. "The president's assertion of executive privilege raises serious new questions about the role the president and the White House played in the Fast and Furious scandal," said King. "Forty years - nearly to the day - after the Watergate break in, Barack Obama has taken a page out of Richard Nixon's playbook to assert executive privilege in an effort to stonewall Congressional investigators." "I commend the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee's action today to keep Eric Holder and President Obama accountable through the approval of a contempt resolution. However, this debate is no longer simply about Eric Holder's contempt for Congress. Today's assertion of executive privilege at least implies, if not confirms, that the President was at the center of Fast and Furious - or its cover up." ###
06.15.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today in response to President Obama's plan to grant amnesty to an estimated 1 million illegal aliens through an Executive Order implementing the policies of the DREAM Act legislation that Congress has rejected. "Americans should be outraged that President Obama is planning to usurp the Constitutional authority of the United States Congress and grant amnesty by edict to 1 million illegal aliens," said King. "There is no ambiguity in Congress about whether the DREAM Act's amnesty program should be the law of the land. It has been rejected by Congress, and yet President Obama has decided that he will move forward with it anyway. President Obama, an ex constitutional law professor, whose favorite word is audacity, is prepared to violate the principles of Constitutional Law that he taught. "The American people have rejected amnesty because it will erode the Rule of Law. In much the same way, I believe the American people will reject President Obama for his repeated efforts to violate the Constitutional separation of powers." ###
06.14.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today in honor of Flag Day and the 237th Birthday of the United States Army. It was on this day in 1775 that our nation's Army was established to defend our nation. This day commemorates the slogan of the largest and oldest established branch of the U.S. military, "Army Strong," and recognizes the great service and sacrifice of America's Army. In addition to the Army's birthday, June 14th of every year is also recognized as Flag Day and was established as such in 1949 through an Act of Congress signed into law by President Truman. "We owe a great amount of gratitude to the men and women in uniform who have selflessly put their lives on the line so we may enjoy the freedoms we have in our beloved nation," King said. "The commitment and dedication of the soldiers in our nation's Army who have served and are currently serving is both inspiring and praiseworthy. I also commend the families of the brave soldiers who have given up precious time with their loved ones for the preservation of our liberty, represented by our Star Spangled Banner. The Army continues to embody the desirable traits and ideals that our Founders Fathers envisioned for this country. Our nation owes its gratitude to those who have answered the call to defend the red, white and blue."
06.13.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after the Iowa Transportation Commission approved the FY 2013-2017 Iowa Transportation Improvement Program yesterday. The Program includes $101.7 million in funding for work in western Iowa to expand Highway 20 to four lanes. King has been a champion of widening Highway 20 to four lanes in western Iowa for decades and has supported the work as a private citizen living in northwest Iowa and as a state senator and U.S. Congressman representing the area. Throughout his time in Congress, King has helped to secure more than $26 million in federal funds for completion of four lane Highway 20. "We have now crossed the great divide of Highway 71 and the entire 4-lane Highway 20 project that many of us have worked on for decades has passed the tipping point," said King. "There is now no doubt that in a few years, we will be able to put our cruise control on 65 mph and drive all the way to Dubuque. A total of $95.7 million of the $101.7 million will be spent in Woodbury County. I thank the commissioners and the community leaders who have worked together to make this happen."
06.13.2012	3 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today to feature National Dairy Month. King spoke with the Western Iowa Dairy Alliance yesterday near Sanborn, Iowa at VanEss Dairy. The VanEss family relocated to Iowa in 2007 and is very involved in promoting milk and dairying locally as well as regionally. The family has hosted numerous events and open houses at their dairy farm to showcase the industry. Congressman King with the VanEss family at their dairy farm near Sanborn, Iowa. The five VanEss sons operate the family owned dairy farm in Western Iowa. The picture is also attached. "The VanEss family is a true asset to our state, and their story highlights the fact that all new wealth comes from the land," said King. "Dairy farming is an integral part of agriculture in Iowa, and milk production is one reason why we rank third in the nation for the total value of agriculture products sold each year. I'm grateful that the Western Iowa Dairy Alliance hosted me yesterday to honor National Dairy month. As a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee, I will continue to make sure that the 5th District has a voice in agriculture decisions made in Congress."
06.08.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after his amendment that prohibits funding for foreign language services outlined in an Executive Order issued by President Bill Clinton passed last night. King's amendment provides that no funds will be made available in any provision of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act to enforce Executive Order 13166. This Executive Order was signed by President Clinton in 2000 and states that any entity which receives federal funds must provide any services it offers in any foreign language spoken by anyone likely to receive those services. "The Department of Homeland Security should be spending hard earned tax dollars on programs to help keep our country safe, not to promote foreign languages within the United States," said King."Providing language assistance services to Limited English Proficiency (LEP) individuals is both costly and unnecessary. This is precisely why we need to pass my bill, H.R. 997, the English Language Unity Act, which would provide consistency among all Americans and unite our country." ###
06.08.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after his amendment restricting funding for administrative amnesty to illegal immigrants was attached to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act passed last night. The amendment, co-sponsored by Congressman Lou Barletta, (R-PA) cuts off administrative amnesty funds made available for the lenient immigration polices outlined in three memos released in 2011 from John Morton, Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Taxpayer dollars will no longer fund the President's efforts to continue to ignore immigration laws. "It is irresponsible for ICE to prioritize the deportation and prosecution of illegal aliens based on the Morton Memo criteria." said King. "It is not the government's job to pick and choose which illegal aliens are most fit for deportation. Collectively, these memos are a picture-perfect example of how the President has been using administrative amnesty to get around Congress on immigration issues. The Administration and ICE are continually eroding the Rule of Law when it comes to immigration. The administration has directed law enforcement officials to provide amnesty to illegal aliens unless they pose a threat to the President's reelection. This amendment will begin to reverse the damage already done while setting our nation back on the right path. " ###
06.06.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement to honor the anniversary of the tide turning battle of D-Day. "On this day 68 years ago, allied forces stormed the Normandy beaches to begin the end of World War II," said King. "5,000 manned ships and 13,000 aircraft sustained the 50 mile stretch of coastline in an intense battle. 9,000 allied soldiers were killed or wounded that day. The battle was not over for more than 100,000 who began the march across European terrain to defeat Hitler. These brave soldiers protected our stars and stripes and fought for our freedom. May we support the military so that President Eisenhower's D-Day message will ring true today; 'The hopes and prayers of liberty loving people everywhere march with you.' Let us take the time to remember that these courageous soldiers took on the enemy directly, and we should continue to honor those currently in uniform." ###
06.04.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement on the recent passing of iconic Iowan farm broadcaster Mark Pearson: "Yesterday all Iowan's lost a tremendous advocate for agriculture and rural America," King said. "Today my prayers go out to the Pearson family as they grieve for the loss of their loved one Mark. Whether you listened to Mark on WHO's Big Show, saw him on IPTV's Market to Market, watched him give the Iowa State Fair highlights, or were entertained by him on the speaking circuit, Mark's understanding and respect for agriculture were presented in a way that was uniquely his. No matter if Mark was talking to bankers on Wall Street or farmers on Main Street, he could speak their language and each realized what a great ambassador for Agriculture he was." "I would like to thank the Pearson family for allowing Mark to share his love of agriculture with people throughout this nation. That pursuit required Mark to spend time away from his family, but their sacrifice allowed Mark to herald the message of agriculture's role to countless individuals across this country. May God be with the family of Mark Pearson and grant them the strength of body and peace of mind as they cope with this great loss to Iowa."
06.04.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement regarding the Department of Justice demanding that Florida stop its efforts to verify the eligibility of its registered voters. As many as 182,000 fraudulent registered voters have been exposed as non-U.S. citizens as a result of Florida's efforts. Attorney General Eric Holder and the Obama administration are contending that Florida is breaking federal law, citing the 1965 Voting Rights Act, which states that voter lists cannot be adjusted within 90 days of the primary. The state of Florida contends that the Holder Justice Department delayed their efforts to purge the voter lists for months, and under no circumstances should non-U.S. citizens be afforded the privilege to vote. "Once again the Attorney General politicized his role," said King. "The Department of Justice is aiding in illegal immigrants being allowed to vote and prohibiting the state of Florida from enforcing the law. This is another example of how Eric Holder and the Obama administration politically calculate and abuse the power of the Justice Department in a way I have not seen in my time in Congress. In their minds, illegal immigrants are undocumented democrats. What we're getting from the Justice Department is anything but justice." ###
06.01.2012	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the House approved an amendment he offered to the FY2013 Energy and Water Appropriations bill aimed at bringing the amount of funding provided in the bill for the US Army Corps of Engineers' Operations and Maintenance work in the Missouri River basin in line with the amount of funding for that work that was requested by the Corps. Through his amendment, King proposes shifting funds from the Missouri River fish and wildlife recovery account to the Operations and Maintenance account for the River basin. The intent of the amendment is provide just over $500,000 in additional funds for Operations and Maintenance work in the basin to bring the total funding provided for this work in the upcoming fiscal year to slightly more than the $7.7 million requested by the Corps. Since 2002, the spending on Fish and Wildlife in the Missouri River basin has INCREASED approximately 550%, while funding for operations and maintenance in the basin has DECREASED by nearly 20% (19.3%). The House passed King's amendment by a vote of 203 to 185. "There are significant changes that must be made in the way the Missouri River is managed in the wake of last year's historic flood," said King. "First, as I've long argued, we must increase the amount of storage capacity in the reservoirs upstream that is set aside for flood control, and I've introduced legislation, H.R. 2942, to do just that. But, as part of that effort, we must also take steps necessary to increase the capacity of the channel so that it can withstand greater discharges from Gavins Point - likely up to 120,000 cubic feet per second - and this amendment will pave the way for that process to begin." "If we are ever going to increase channel capacity, we must first have the full resources necessary to maintain the channel as it currently exists and ensure the stage is set for additional work in the future to increase its capacity. Providing additional funds to the Operations and Maintenance activities of the Corps in the River basin will go a long way towards beginning the work that must be done to protect those who live in the River bottom from a repeat of last year's flooding by allowing the Missouri River channel to handle greater flows of water."
05.31.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the Prenatal Non-Discrimination Act (PRENDA) failed by a vote of 246 in favor and 168 opposed. A two-thirds majority was required for passage because PRENDA was brought to the floor under suspension of the rules, but not enough Democrats joined Republicans to reach this super-majority standard. A bill brought up under regular order requires a simple majority of Members voting to pass. Minutes before the House voted on PRENDA, Democrats forced an unrelated procedural vote concerning women's pay. "While Democrats were conducting 'procedural shenanigans' with a routine previous question vote aimed at painting Republicans as anti-women, only 20 Democrats joined Republicans to stop sex selection abortions and protect innocent baby girls," King said. "If there is a 'war on women,' as President Obama asserts, where are Democrats when it's time to protect the most defenseless of all women – baby girls? I'm looking forward to House action allowing the pro-life majority to protect baby girls by passing PRENDA under regular order."
05.31.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today in response to H.R. 5869, the Studying Towards Adjusted Residency Status (STARS) Act, a bill introduced by Congressman David Rivera (R-FL). The bill would reward illegal aliens with the opportunity to receive legal permanent status if they receive a degree from a four year college and satisfy various other criteria. "The immigration laws of this country have been ignored by millions of illegal aliens", King said. "I don't believe in rewarding lawbreakers with a path to citizenship. While I do have sympathy for those who may have come to this country illegally with their parents when they broke the law, our country cannot afford to make concessions in immigration policy. The Rule of Law is a much higher priority. First we must secure our borders, shut off the jobs and benefits magnets that attract illegal aliens to the U.S., and enforce the immigration laws that are already on the books."
05.30.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today prior to the SpaceX Dragon Spacecraft's return to Earth later tonight. Before the SpaceX Dragon took off, student groups from across the country competed to submit scientific experiments aboard the spacecraft while in space. There were 779 national student proposals submitted in the competition. Only 15 of those were selected for flight, and one of them came from Ida County, Iowa. This student team from OA-BCIG experimented with sending dormant Killifish eggs into space to study the bone and muscle mass against the micro-gravity's pulling force. It will aid in the study of human health, specifically looking into kidney stone research. The students from the OA-BCIG and Ridge View school districts will both be travelling to Washington, DC in July to present the findings from their experiments at the National Air & Space Museum. Ridge View was selected to participate in this same program last year with the lastspace shuttle launch of Atlantis. Ida County Economic Development and Northwest AEA led the collaboration of the stakeholders and students through this process. "I am so proud of the many Iowa students who worked hard to be a part of this prestigious student spaceflight experiments program," said King. "What an honor it is for our state to be involved. It is such a great testament to the bright students, the dedicated teachers, and the supportive communities we have in these school districts. It is important that we make investment in the education of our young people a top priority. I have no doubt that this experience has helped many students understand the importance of math and science, and today as the SpaceX Dragon returns, young Iowans' futures are launched."
05.25.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement to honor the men and women who have given their lives for our county, and to encourage 5th District Iowans to take time this Memorial Day to pay respects to those brave service men and women to whom we owe our freedom. "May this Memorial Day weekend help us to put our lives into perspective, so that we can honor those who have given this country the ultimate sacrifice," said King. "I've been with our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq. I've seen firsthand the hardships that they face, yet they endure it all with incredible courage and focus. I offer my sincere appreciation for those who have fought in uniform for our great nation. I also recognize the stalwart families who supported their sons and daughters through their difficult journeys. I hope that this Memorial Day we each can be reminded of the greatness of our nation and be grateful for the freedoms we have because they knew what they were fighting for."
05.24.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today in honor of National Small Business Week. King is a member of the Small Business Committee and started his own construction company in 1975. "Small businesses are the heart beat of America, yet they bear the burden of regulation much more than larger firms." said King. "The Small Business Administration recently found that the total regulatory costs for small businesses amount to $1.75 trillion annually. That's enough money for businesses to create 35 million good-paying private sector jobs. Overbearing regulation stifles the growth of our economy, and its reach continues to take a toll on American families. The progressive agenda continues to stifle the American entrepreneurial spirit." "My greatest fear when running King Construction was of government regulators threatening my business over some new or little known regulation. Today's amount of regulation is an Orwellian monster compared to 1975's. As a self-made businessman, I know that the only way we can get our country back to work is by focusing on profitability and getting government out of the way of our entrepreneurs."
05.18.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today to highlight national "Women's Health Week." "In Congress, women's health is a central issue, and I have consistently advocated for responsible policies," said King. "Recently I introduced the 'Telemedicine Safety Act,' which prevents public funding from being used in abortion clinics, like Planned Parenthood, for telemed abortions. This appalling practice involves a doctor prescribing an abortion drug, like RU-486, by video conference. Women are then left to their own devices and eight percent of them require surgical intervention to complete their abortion." "Clearly this practice is not safe for women. My hope is that this week gave us a reminder to reflect on what we can do to help promote women's health - including passing my bill, H.R. 5731, to protect women from the unhealthy practice of telemed abortions."
05.18.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after voting for H.R. 4310, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013. The NDAA sets national defense policy for the upcoming fiscal year and sets up funding authorization for defense and national security programs for FY13. Importantly, the bill included provisions preventing the Air Force from following through on its plans to remove the 132nd Fighter Wing's F-16s from Des Moines and a KC-135 tanker from the 185th Air Refueling Wing in Sioux City. "I voted for the 2012 NDAA reauthorization to show my support for our military, and specifically the Iowa Air National Guard," said King. "President Obama's proposal to scale back the mission of the Iowa Air National Guard with the removal of the F-16s from Des Moines and a KC-135 from Sioux City made no sense from a financial or security stand point. I appreciate the efforts of Governor Branstad and Major General Orr of the Iowa National Guard who helped to galvanize support for Congressional action amongst other Governors and Adjutant Generals from across the county. I was pleased to support the NDAA on the floor today to ensure that these aircraft stay in Iowa, that the ranks of Iowa's Air National Guard are not diminished, and that the National Guard continues to remain a vibrant component of our national defense."
05.17.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement to encourage the farmers, producers, stakeholder groups, and members of the public to offer their input about the upcoming reauthorization of the Farm Bill. For several weeks, King has participated in the House Agriculture Committee's hearings about the law's reauthorization. Throughout the hearing process, the Committee has operated a comments section on its website to solicit input from the public about the Farm Bill's reauthorization. This Sunday, May 20, is the last day comments will be accepted on the website. "Interested individuals can still offer input about the 2012 Farm Bill on the House Agriculture Committee's Website," said King. "As a senior member of the Committee, I understand that the Farm Bill is one of the most important pieces of federal legislation to Iowans because it directly affects our livelihood and our heritage. As the House Agriculture Committee wraps up hearings on the Farm Bill and prepares to begin marking up the legislation, it is vital for me and my colleagues on the Committee to hear about the ideas and concerns of some of the most productive agricultural stakeholders in the world." Please go to http://agriculture.house.gov/farmbill_feedback.html to sumbit your thoughts. ###
05.16.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after voting in support of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Reauthorization of 2012 on the House floor. VAWA channels federal funding to programs that aid in helping women who are victims of domestic abuse, stalking, and sexual assault. "Although I am concerned that this bill was brought to the floor in a manner that undermined work done by the Judiciary Committee, I understand the importance of reauthorizing VAWA to ensure its resources are available to help fight domestic abuse and sexual assault," said King. "I supported this legislation because I know how important it is to empower women in difficult situations. If a woman is at risk, she should know that she has a place to turn for support and assistance. I supported VAWA in 2005 and am doing so again to see to it that victims of domestic violence and sexual assault have access to the resources and protection when they need it the most." ###
05.15.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after Beef Products Incorporated (BPI) announced itwill cut 86 jobs from its corporate office in South Dakota. This news comes a week after BPI will close three plants in three states- effective May 25 factories in Waterloo, Iowa, Amarillo, Texas, and Garden City, Kansas will be permanently closed. "BPI's LFTB (lean finely textured beef) has long been a safe, nutritious enhancement to hamburger. Siouxland showed its support for the BPIfamily and product several Saturdays ago when 15,000 burgers were served at a picnic to demonstrate local support. Unfortunately, even a huge turnout and broad support from the region were not enough to stave off the closing of three BPI plants, the layoff of 650 plant workers and now the layoff of 86 executives." "It will be a long hard road back to the market share that BPI had earned. When you buy your hamburger in the store, ask them for the burger with LFTB. When you go to your school board meetings, ask them to be sure high quality LFTB is on the school lunch trays everywhere. Use all social networks with friends and families across the nation to encourage them to request LFTB. It's a small thing to ask to help a great company." ###
05.15.2012	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after participating in the ground breaking of the CJ BIO America plant yesterday in Fort Dodge, Iowa. CJ BIO America will bring 170 jobs to Iowa by 2014. Governor Terry Branstad, Lt Governor Kim Reynolds, Congressman Steve King, USDA Under Secretary for Rural Development DallasTonsager, Fort Dodge Growth Alliance Director Dennis Plautz, County Supervisor Keith Denlau at the groundbreaking ceremony "Having worked six years to pass the South Korean Free Trade Agreement, I'm happy to see our relationships are paying dividends. It was part of the reason CJ BIO America decided to locate its first North American manufacturing plant in Iowa, and I'm pleased that this will give producers in the 5th district yet another outlet for their corn." said King. "The ethanol industry has always anticipated that Iowa ethanol facilities would be the hub for other value added companies to access co-products from and further process them into an ever expanding list of products. These products add value to corn at least three times before it leaves the premises. A great business relationship has been forged between Cargill and CJ BIO America and I am grateful for the commitment both companies have to North West and North Central Iowa. This project is another great example of the benefits of Iowan ingenuity. The "over the fence" businesses are yet to come." ###
05.11.2012	6 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after being awarded the ACU Conservative Award this week from The American Conservative Union. To be considered for the award, members must receive an 80 percent rating or higher on 25 votes scored by the ACU. King received a 92 rating for the first session of the 112th Congress in 2011 and carries a 96.44 rating overall. 0 King receives award from the ACU Executive Director Gregg Keller "I want to thank the American Conservative Union for recognizing me with this award," said King. "This organization consistently proves why it is held in such high regard and their annual ratings are considered to be the "gold standard" for Conservatives in Congress. I am pleased to continue to uphold the Constitutional Conservative principles that have made this nation great." ###
05.10.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today regarding the House vote on a budget reconciliation package intended to prevent a scheduled 10% across the board cut to Department of Defense programs and an 8% cut to certain domestic programs, such as the National Institutes of Health and education programs. In total, over $1 trillion would be cut from national defense over the next ten years. Secretary of Defense, Leon Panetta, has suggested that the looming cuts would "devastate" our national security. The cuts were enacted last year as part of the "debt ceiling deal" that was struck by Congress. Set in motion after the so-called "Super Committee" failed to reach agreement on a package of budget cuts and reforms, the reconciliation package being considered this week will replace the automatic, across the board cuts with targeted reductions in specific areas of the federal budget. The ultimate goal is aimed at weeding out wasteful, fraudulent, inefficient and duplicative spending. "Today the House voted on reconciliation language that will head off debilitating cuts to our national defense," said King. "The looming cuts would put 200,000 Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines in the unemployment line and could eventually lead to the demise of the all volunteer force that's been the hallmark of our armed forces for decades. With only a skeleton force to defend our nation, the effort to do so will likely cost more in both blood and treasure in the long run. Secretary Panetta was right to warn about the devastation these cuts would bring. The House is stepping up to the plate to achieve the needed budget savings responsibly, and I was pleased to support that effort on the floor today." ###
05.10.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after introducing the "Telemedicine Safety Act." The bill cuts off public funding to abortion clinics, like Planned Parenthood, across the country for telemedicine abortions. Telemed abortions involve dispensing powerful and dangerous abortion drugs, like RU-486, without a doctor present. The drug is administered after a brief video conference between the doctor and patient. While the doctor may be hundreds of miles away, the woman is left to endure the serious side-effects of the drug. RU-486 is responsible for at least 612 hospitalizations and 16 deaths. "Planned Parenthood's ulterior motives must be made known," said King. "Their aggressive promotion of the gruesome practice of abortion by video conference is expanding the destructive 'abortion on demand' culture in America- all in the name of increased profits. Telemed abortions, without the overhead costs of a surgical abortion, allow Planned Parenthood to make even more money while preying on young women and violating FDA regulations. Eight percent of women who take the abortion drug known as RU-486 require surgical intervention to complete their abortion. This new practice leaves those women at grave risk, and should never be supported with taxpayer dollars. Telemed abortions threaten and endanger women and we should not allow Planned Parenthood to maximize their profits. We cannot let this practice continue." ###
05.09.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after the United States Postal Service (USPS) announced a new initiative to allow rural post offices that had been targeted for closure to remain open. In recent months, amid looming budget shortfalls, the USPS announced plans to close thousands of small, rural post offices nationwide. Sixty-two of these post offices are located in Western Iowa. Today's announcement comes after significant concerns were raised with the closure proposal by Congress and the public. According to today's announcement, the USPS will curtail hours of operation at small post offices to match the average flow of daily foot traffic, rather than close the offices altogether. "In rural America, we understand the role played by post offices in small town life," said King. "For months, Western Iowans have been struggling with the idea that they'd lose their local post office. Since the closure plans were first announced months ago, my staff and I have been in contact with the leaders of all sixty-two affected communities in the Fifth District. I have also discussed the issue of post office closures directly with the Postmaster General, explaining that many in these small towns have suggested that the USPS could find other ways to cut costs, instead of simply closing small town post offices. It appears that this was a common theme in the feedback the USPS received about its closure proposal." "I will continue to work with the USPS and the Fifth District's business and community leaders to evaluate this proposal and ensure that any changes made to the USPS' retail and delivery network continue to serve the needs of all western Iowa." ###
05.09.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after voting in support of legislation to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act. The vote was held last night in the House Judiciary Committee. King is a senior member of the Committee. The Committee's approval of the legislation sets up consideration of the measure as soon as next week on the House floor. "I was pleased to support this important legislation in the Judiciary Committee," said King. "As a Committee, we debated several amendments to the underlying bill and approved a number of changes that improve and strengthen it. The legislation will ensure that we continue to have a robust system of enforcement and support in place to address the issues of domestic violence and sexual assault in the United States. I look forward to taking this up on the House floor in the near future." ###
05.03.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today to highlight the 61st annual observance of the National Day of Prayer. "In Congress I strive to do my job to serve God and country- in that order," said King. "Benjamin Franklin once said 'the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth- that God Governs in the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid?' We believe that this nation would not have risen without His aid and without the prayers to almighty God. Prayer has guided us from meeting to meeting, event to event and battle after battle as America was formed. I believe that the Founding Fathers were moved around like men on a chess board on this great continent and that they were guided in their very actions and words. They shaped the values and God given rights that are so clearly defined in the Declaration of Independence." "Today, more than ever, we need to be confident that we are also following in those principles that have taken us to this point. If the Founding Fathers, with God's guidance, can shape this nation and identify God given liberty, then surely we can refurbish the pillars of American Exceptionalism. Surely we can honor to Him for the gifts he has given this country and put it back on the right track so that men and women who are born 100 years from now can look back at us and say 'they kept the faith, they kept the trust, they held it together for us.' I thank you for your prayers each day, but especially today on this National Day of Prayer." 0 ###
04.30.2012	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after recently receiving two awards: the "Guardian ofSenior's Rights" award from the 60 Plus association and the "Champion of Healthcare Innovation" award from the Healthcare Leadership Council. 60 Plus Chairman, Jim Martin, came to King's office Friday to present him with his award. Earlier in the week, King received the Healthcare Leadership Council's award at its annual Healthcare Innovations Expo on Capitol Hill. "Both of these awards highlight two subjects that are extremely important to me, and I am honored to have received them," said King. "As someone who represents a large number of seniors I take the responsibility of protecting seniors seriously. Jim Martin and the 60 Plus Association work tirelessly on behalf of our nation's seniors. I appreciate their recognition, and I look forward to continuing to work with them on the important issues facing our seniors in the future." "I am also proud of the "Champion of Healthcare" award I've been given by the Healthcare Leadership Council. We must have a consumer driven healthcare system in the United States that puts patients in the driver's seat. I'm grateful for the opportunity to receive the recognition of the Council for my work in this area. Their support and expertise is critical in advancing the kind of reforms we need in healthcare." ###
04.27.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after voting for the Interest Rate Reduction Act, which would prevent the scheduled increase in federal interest rates on student loans for one year. This will prevent federal student loan interest rates from raising to 6.8% from the current rate 3.4% on July 1st. "Today I voted to prevent student loans interest rates from doubling in July," said King. "The President continues to politicize this issue while campaigning to earn the youth vote yet he has threatened to veto this common sense solution. The American people are looking for stability from Washington, and this bill will help give students and their families assurance as they gear up for a new school year in the Fall. This short term solution puts a band aid on a much larger problem, and I look forward to working together with my colleagues in the House to find a long term solution in the future. " ###
04.26.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement and video from his testimony before the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures today on the urgency of reauthorizing the Production Tax Credit for wind energy generation: "When we come up with new renewable energy, or any kind of energy source you have to find a way to have market access," said King."I was involved in the ethanol industry early. I've been involved in the bio diesel industry. Now the wind industry. My congressional district produces more renewable energy than any other Congressional district out of all 435 in America." "I go back to sometime in the 70's when we first began with these endeavors. One of the challenges of course is technology, and a normal wind turbine back in those earlier years would produce about 1/6th of the electricity that a single wind turbine does today. But it's always been the technology, the engineering is one challenge- the next challenge is market access. We have tremendous wind energy infrastructure that's been built, but that infrastructure has to have a little pay down on the return of investment before it can sustain itself." ###
04.26.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that it will withdraw its proposed rule to prohibit young people from working on family farms and participating in agriculture education programs including Future Farmers of America and 4-H. "Once again President Obama's overreaching policies have outraged the American people," said King. "I'm happy to see the backlash surrounding this rule has prompted the Department of Labor to withdraw the proposed rule. The Department of Agriculture collaborated with the Department of Labor on this direct assault of American family farms. Family farms are the core of American culture, and for centuries they have played a large role in instilling a strong work ethic in young people. I know because I raised my three sons in rural Iowa and taught them the value of hard work." "I'm pleased to have had the support of many farm families as I've worked to oppose this rule in order to ensure that young people will still have the same opportunities. This policy was not only unnecessary, it threatened the very way of life that I and so many others hold dear. When will President Obama realize that his out of touch policies do not reflect the values of the American people? His actions continue to show that he is disconnected with the people in the heartland of this great country." ###
04.25.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) attended the Supreme Court Hearing on SB 1070 earlier today and released the following video from a press conference he held yesterday with former Arizona state senator Russell Pearce, the author and driving force behind SB 1070. 0 "Whatever the economic equation is, whatever the social equation is, turning a blind eye to illegal immigration necessarily erodes the rule of law," said King. "When that happens it erodes America. And there are millions of people who come to this country legally and even presumably illegally because they want to come to a country that has the rights and the privileges that we have. Among them- a justice that is blind, a justice that is of laws, not men. So if they leave a country that is corrupt, and come to the United States of America and it's being corrupted by people that turn a blind eye towards illegal immigration, then you've damaged the underpinnings of America." ###
04.20.2012	5 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after visiting the areas affected by the tornados in Thurman and Creston. King toured homes in Thurman that were damaged and also visited Creston's Hospital as well as Southwestern Community College, both of which sustained damage in the storm. Congressman King inspects tornado damage at a house in Thurman, IA "Today I am reminded of how adversity calls upon the resiliency of Iowans," said King. "Volunteers from across the state rallied together to help those affected in Southwest Iowa this last week. Several colleges sent volunteers to help clean up the damage and many other Midwestern states pitched in as well. I am thankful that no lives were lost, and more than ever I am aware of the extraordinary efforts that Iowans will offer when a neighbor is in need." ###
04.19.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after voting for the Small Business Tax Cut Act of 2012. The bill will give businesses with fewer than 500 employees a 20% tax cut. Today, small businesses face federal tax rates as high as 35%. "While Democrats looked for opportunities to increase taxes this week, I remain focused on creating the right environment for businesses to thrive," said King. "Today I voted to decrease taxes for small businesses because I know what it's like to make payroll each week and run a small business. One of the reasons I first ran for office was to help create an environment where small businesses can thrive. Getting government out of the way is critical for the American entrepreneurial spirit to survive, and without that, we'll never get our economy back on track." ###
04.19.2012	6 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after sending Agriculture Department Secretary Tom Vilsack a letter expressing concerns about the campaign of misinformation surrounding lean, finely textured beef (LFTB) along with 30 other members. "Misleading propaganda has plagued the marketplace and is adversely affecting the beef industry," said King. "I hope that Secretary Vilsack will take steps to correct this media driven smear campaign. LFTB is a safe product, and Beef Products Incorporated has an unblemished health and food safety record. This issue impacts every American who buys beef; and they deserve an answer from the Secretary." The letter co-signers are listed below: Leonard Boswell (IA-03), Tim Huelskamp (KS-01), Mike Ross (AR-04), Vicky Hartzler (MO-04), Jim Costa (CA-20), Tom Latham (IA-04), Dan Boren (OK-02), Adrian Smith (NE-03), Thomas Rooney (FL-16), Lynn Jenkins (KS- 02), Mac Thornberry (TX-13), Larry Buschon (IN-08), Kristi Noem (SD-At Large), Kay Granger (TX-12), Michael K. Conaway (TX-11), Mike Pompeo (KS-04), Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-09), Sam Graves (MO-06), Tom Graves (GA-09), Francisco Canseco (TX-2 3), John R. Carter (TX-31), Billy Long (MO-07), Steve Womack (AR-03), Renee Ellmers (NC-02), Randy Neugebauer (TX-19), Joe Barton (TX-06), Robert Schilling (IL-17), Mike Simpson (ID-02), and Bill Johnson (OH-6) Letter to Secretary Vilsack ###
04.18.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after organizing and participating in a conference call last night with Congressman Tom Latham, Congressman Leonard Boswell and state and local emergency management officials. During the call, King and his colleagues received updates about the ongoing recovery efforts in Creston and Thurman after the towns were hit by tornadoes and severe weather over the weekend. Officials continue to assess the damage to determine if the total uninsured damage in the communities exceeds the threshold of $4 million, which would qualify them for federal individual assistance. 0 0 0 "I was pleased to hear that the recovery work is progressing well in Creston and Thurman," said King. "State and local leaders have formed an extremely effective partnership in the work that's being done." "Of course, we are all thankful that there was no loss of life as a result of last weekend's devastation, but the storms left a significant amount of damage to private and public property in their wake. I will continue to work with state and local leaders to assess the damage and address the needs of these communities, and I will work with my colleagues in the House and our Senators to ensure that any relevant federal resources are available as the recovery and rebuilding process continues." ###
04.17.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following video of his speech at a FairTax press conference in front of the U.S. Capitol Building to commemorate National Tax Day. To view the Congressman's speech, click the picture above. 0 "I've been for the FairTax since about 1980, well before there was a FairTax," said King. "Here we are on Tax Day today, this year on April 17, it's normally April 15. It's also the day of Tax Freedom Day by a lot of calculations. I want Tax Freedom day to be January 1, not April 17. Ronald Regan once said that "what you tax you get less of." The federal government has the first lean on all productivity in America. Earnings, savings and investment- they tax it. They punish our productivity, and not our consumption. It needs to be the other way around. That's where our freedom is rooted, it frees up our pastors, our free speech, the whole configuration of our energy, our minds and our economy that has to first jump through the tax hoop before it can figure out where to invest our dollars. Jobs are with the FairTax, and I stand with the FairTax." ###
04.17.2012	7 0 Curt Miller, Jeff Hanson, Councilman Keith Radig, Congressman Steve King Councilwoman Rhonda Capron, Paula Steiner in front of Congressman King's Washington, DC office 0 "It's always good for me to touch base with the city officials from Sioux City," said King. "I'm grateful for our effective working relationship and encouraged that the city of Sioux City continues to drive economic development in this region. I enjoy working together to address the needs of the community." ###
04.15.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement today in response to the storm damage in Southwest Iowa last night and this morning. The tornadoes caused the greatest damage in the towns of Thurman and Creston. In Creston, Greater Regional Medical Center, Southwestern Community College, Creston Public Schools and a number of private homes and the surrounding area sustained significant damage. There were some injuries reported, several severe. The hospital and the college were both evacuated. "As the sky clears, we should all pray for the families who are dealing with the aftermath of these tornadoes," said King. "My staff was on the ground as soon as the weather cleared to assess damage and will continue to be involved in the recovery of these towns. Please feel free to contact Laura Hartman, my district representative based in Creston at 712-369-0361 for assistance. Iowans are a resilient people; and we will pull through the after effects of this storm."
04.13.2012	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after formally being awarded with the USA Wind Jobs Champion Award at the headquarters of Anemometry Specialists in Alta, Iowa yesterday. Founder and President of Anemometry Specialists, Rob Hach, presented King with the award – a commemorative plaque and wind turbine bolt made in the U.S.A from American steel. Congressman King receives the USA Wind Job Champion Award from Anemometry Specialists Founder and President Rob Hach "I'm honored to accept this award on behalf of the hard working Americans who are harnessing wind, as one of our renewable resources, to provide power for this nation," said King. "Long before electricity was discovered our forefathers used the power of Iowa wind to pump water to sustain themselves and their livestock. They would be proud of the effort being made again today to utilize this resource for the benefit of our nation. I look forward to continuing to work to promote the wind industry in Congress."
04.13.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today regarding the U.S. Army Corps of Engineer's release of its report analyzing the impact of an increase in the amount of storage space in the Missouri River's Reservoir System that is dedicated to flood control. "This report is incomplete," said King. "In an analysis that purports to analyze the impact of increased flood storage on other authorized purposes like navigation, hydropower generation, and recreation, there is no consideration of the benefits that additional flood protection would have had on these activities during last year's historic flood. This is a significant hole in the Corp's analysis. We know, for example, that last year's flooding virtually shut down navigation on the River - yet the Corps' analysis here give us no indication of how increased storage capacity might have helped to address this." "This report says, 'Flood control is the only one of these authorized purposes that requires empty space in the reservoirs' and that therefore the other purposes, 'which all require water-in-storage to maximize benefits, would experience negative impacts with additional flood control storage.' This premise is substantially flawed for a number of reasons. If 2011 taught us one thing, it's that there is a point at which additional flood control benefits everyone on the river. There is no recognition of this basic fact in the report. We must provide protection to those who live and work in the Missouri River basin so that life there can continue and redevelopment can take place. We cannot do that, however, with incomplete reporting from the Corps."
03.30.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following video to conclude the week of ObamaCare hearings in the Supreme Court: "I have said for two years- we need to repeal it, we need to pull it out by the roots. It's unconstitutional in a number of different ways," said King. "That was the central question that was before the Supreme Court here this week. The central piece of the constitutionality pivoted on the individual mandate. Can the federal government compel an American- just virtue of breathing this free American air-to buy an insurance policy because they believe that somehow they've engaged in interstate commerce? The commerce clause, if the Supreme Court finds ObamaCare to be constitutional, will have been stretched to the point where there is no limitation to the federal government whatsoever after that. I think many of the enumerated powers would collapse, I think the tenth amendment would collapse, it would be a resounding decision of activism on this court." ###
03.29.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after voting for the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012: "As the the founder of King Construction company in Iowa, I understand the important role that solid infrastructure plays in the stability of our state and nation," said King. "Today I voted to ensure that programs under the Highway Trust Fund would be funded through the end of June of this year, but this short term extension highlights the need for a long-term surface transportation bill. I have been concerned that in the past the gas and diesel tax dollars that are collected from drivers as a user fee and used to fund the Trust Fund have been diverted for other projects. We must be certain that these fees are used to repair, maintain, and build out our nation's roads and bridges. A long term extension will build up our economy, encourage job growth and keep Iowa strong." ###
03.29.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after voting in favor of the House Republican Conference's "Path to Prosperity" budget plan. Key elements of the plan include: cutting $5 trillion in government spending relative to the President's budget, repealing ObamaCare, paying down the nation's debt, eliminating inefficient and duplicative government programs, lowering tax rates, promoting private sector job creation, and reforming and strengthening Medicare and Medicaid to ensure their financial viability for current and future beneficiaries. "Greece and other European countries are now facing debt crises that are requiring them to make immediate, painful cuts that are causing social unrest. The Congressional Budget Office and every other independent analysis shows that this same scenario is what is in store for America unless we act to put our fiscal house in order," said King. "The 'Path to Prosperity' takes the task of tackling the drivers of our nation's debt seriously. It repeals ObamaCare and empowers patients and consumers with choice in their health care. It strengthens Medicare for current and future beneficiaries. It creates a robust environment for job creation in America, and it offers an all-of the-above strategy for unlocking American energy production to help lower energy costs and reduce our dependence on foreign oil." "The Senate has refused to even propose a budget in over 1,000 days. Last month, President Obama submitted his budget to Congress, which contained $1.9 trillion in tax increases and $1.5 trillion worth of spending gimmicks and yet still added another $11 trillion to the debt. The House is showing the way, and it is important the we have a President and a Senate who are also willing to step up to the challenge of ensuring a stronger America and a more prosperous future for our children and grandchildren." ###
03.29.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) received the "Spirit of Enterprise" Award today from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for his ongoing commitment to economic stability. For the past 24 year the U.S. Chamber has given this award to Members of Congress who support pro-business legislation and pro-growth policies. Awardees are selected based upon the votes they cast on key business issues outlined in the Chamber's publication How They Voted. Members must support the Chamber's position on at least 70% of those votes to receive the award. Congressman King maintained a 88% rating this year and an average of 86% during his tenure in Congress. "One of the reasons I ran for public office in the first place was to help small business owners succeed and create jobs by promoting pro-growth policies," said King. "I appreciate the Chamber's recognition with this award, and I will continue to strive to get government out of the way of small businesses trying to make it in this economy." "Over the past year, Congressman King has worked to protect and advance the interests of America's job creators," said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. "By supporting pro-growth policies, Congressman King is helping unleash the power of free enterprise to put our economy back on track and put Americans back to work."
03.28.2012	3 Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Steve King led Iowa's U.S. House Delegation in sending a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack asking that the USDA take a more active role in educating the public about the benefits of lean finely textured beef, a meat product that has recently been the focus of a focused, negative public smear campaign. Lean finely textured beef is a 100% beef product that is largely produced by Beef Products Inc., a company with a significant presence and long history in Iowa. "BPI and the lean finely textured beef product it produces have been the victim of a vicious negative media campaign," said King. "The result has been a misinformed public that's pressured retailers and the USDA to distance themselves from the company and its product," said King. "The USDA is uniquely positioned to help educate the public about the facts as they relate to lean finely textured beef. Unfortunately the agency's handling of this situation thus far has led the public to believe that this product is neither healthy nor safe. These false claims have put jobs and livelihoods at stake. We need Secretary Vilsack and the USDA to take an active role in setting the record straight. " The letter sent to Secretary Vilsack can be found here: LFTB_Letter_to_USDA.pdf
03.28.2012	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Steve King led Iowa's U.S. House Delegation in sending a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack asking that the USDA take a more active role in educating the public about the benefits of lean finely textured beef, a meat product that has recently been the focus of a focused, negative public smear campaign. Lean finely textured beef is a 100% beef product that is largely produced by Beef Products Inc., a company with a significant presence and long history in Iowa. "BPI and the lean finely textured beef product it produces have been the victim of a vicious negative media campaign," said King. "The result has been a misinformed public that's pressured retailers and the USDA to distance themselves from the company and its product," said King. "The USDA is uniquely positioned to help educate the public about the facts as they relate to lean finely textured beef. Unfortunately the agency's handling of this situation thus far has led the public to believe that this product is neither healthy nor safe. These false claims have put jobs and livelihoods at stake. We need Secretary Vilsack and the USDA to take an active role in setting the record straight." ###
03.26.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) an ardent opponent of ObamaCare, released an informational timeline today on his website to help educate the American people on what's been discovered about ObamaCare. King said the following to highlight the first day of Supreme Court hearings: "To mandate that everyone must buy a health insurance policy is a huge reach, and this is exactly the kind of government the Founding Father's wanted to limit," said King. "I don't know how the Supreme Court could rationalize that this law is constitutional. We need to rip ObamaCare out by the roots, making it "as if such act had not been enacted." That's the repeal language I authored that passed the House last year. Since then, however, we've learned even more about ObamaCare's unsustainable costs and its empty promises." "I've posted a timeline on my website of all that we've discovered about ObamaCare since that House passed my repeal language last year. I hope all interested Americans will visit my website and review this timeline. When they do, they'll gain a deeper understanding of the magnitude of the decision that's before the Supreme Court this week. Today marks the first day in a historical case, and the decision could determine the direction of our nation." To view the timeline on Congressman King's website click here. ### 0
03.23.2012	ObamaCare since H.R. 2 (January 19, 2011) Office of Congressman Steve King 2011 January February 0 March April May June July August September October November December 0 2012 January February March
03.23.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman King released the following statement to mark the two year anniversary of ObamaCare becoming law: "Today marks an event that will not be celebrated," said King. "The American people have rejected this government takeover of their healthcare. Americans know that ObamaCare infringes on our liberty and they know that the price tag is unsustainable. It seems that every day brings new revelations about its skyrocketing costs and its overstated coverage provisions. ObamaCare is one, massive empty promise. The next President must make 100% repeal his number one priority so that this second anniversary of ObamaCare's passage is the last." ###
03.22.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman King released the following statement today after the House voted to repeal one of the most egregious pieces of ObamaCare, the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). King voted 'present' on H.R. 5, the IPAB repeal bill, to signify his opposition to a piecemeal strategy of ObamaCare repeal. "IPAB is just one abhorrent aspect of ObamaCare- but it is one of the most intrusive," said King. "It is the heart of Obamacare, because without IPAB, the rationing of access to care is not possible. This unelected board of bureaucrats responsible for shaping the future of our health care must be repealed, but not as an independent piece of the law." "We must pull ObamaCare out by the roots. IPAB is not distinct from ObamaCare, it is the essence of ObamaCare and for that reason the law must be repealed as a whole. The American people continue to speak out against the ObamaCare's individual mandate, its attack on essential first amendment conscience protections, and its multitrillion-dollar price tag. Partial repeal only empowers this government takeover of one-sixth of the economy, and until full repeal is realized we will continue to muddle our message." ###
03.21.2012	5 King Meets with Iowa Farm Bureau Members Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Steve King met with members of the Iowa Farm Bureau during their visit to Washington, DC. The group was in town during their annual trip to Capitol Hill to discuss various legislative and public policy issues with members of Iowa's Congressional delegation. Among the items discussed during today's meeting were the upcoming reauthorization of the Farm Bill, Estate Tax reform, and EPA regulatory reform. King released the following statement about the meeting: "It's always great to hear from members of the Iowa Farm Bureau. These are the people who are on the front lines of Iowa agriculture. With a Farm Bill reauthorization right around the corner, it is important to get their input on the issues that Congress will soon be debating through that process. The Iowa Farm Bureau helps to ensure that Iowa's farmers and producers are part of the public discourse and the legislative process. It's an important role they play, and I'm happy I had the chance to meet with them today." ###
03.21.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) spoke this morning at a press conference in front of the U.S. Capitol with Reps. Phil Gingrey, Michele Bachmann, Louie Gohmert and John Fleming, and Tea Party Patriots National Coordinator Jenny Beth Martin to mark the second anniversary of the passage of ObamaCare. To view the Congressman's full speech, click the picture below: "Keep your hands off our healthcare and our Constitution! Piece after piece, we know how bad ObamaCare is, I don't have to go through the list," said King. "It's unaffordable, unsustainable, unconstitutional. I drafted a bill to repeal ObamaCare. And the last words are 'repeal the bill as if it had never been enacted'." ###
03.21.2012	9 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King and Senator Chuck Grassley met with students from Shenandoah High School today. Congressman King discussed legislation he introduced to address the historic flooding experienced along the Missouri River last year. He also talked about immigration, health care, and efforts to pass a balanced budget. "I enjoyed meeting with these young Iowans today," said King. "To give these students an example of how the legislative process works, Senator Grassley and I talked about our companion bills that would protect Shenandoah from future flooding along the Missouri River. It was a pleasure to meet with this group from Iowa and I hope they enjoyed the rest of their visit in our nation's capital." 0 Senator Grassley and Congressman King addressing Shenandoah High School Students 0 Congressman King and Shenandoah High School Students outside of the Capitol 0
03.15.2012	King: ObamaCare Is Getting More Expensive Every Year Washington, DC - Today Congressman King released the following statement regarding the Congressional Budget Office's recent release of its March 2012 baseline, which included new cost estimates of President Obama's 2010 health care law. "When the Democrats passed ObamaCare in 2010, I pointed out that the bill was jam-packed with budget gimmicks, and that its real effect would be to explode the federal balance sheet," said King. "One of the things I pointed out is that the bill delayed its most costly spending provisions until after the 2012 elections. I noted that the true cost of the bill once everything had been implemented would therefore be much, much higher than official projections. "On Tuesday, the Congressional Budget Office released its new projections. Even with ObamaCare's major spending provisions still two years off, we can now better see their true fiscal impact - and it isn't pretty. The two most costly ObamaCare provisions will cost nearly double what was in the original estimate. Some of us understood ObamaCare's true fiscal impact from the very beginning, but now that these concerns are confirmed, there should be nothing standing in the way of full repeal. Unfortunately, the Democrat Senate and the White House do stand in the way, and that is why they must be replaced with constitutional and fiscal conservatives who will repeal ObamaCare." ###
03.08.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after voting for the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act of 2012: "As a small business owner in Iowa I experienced first-hand the many barriers that the government places on encouraging growth in the private sector," said King. "Today I voted to increase opportunities for capital and financing for small businesses trying to get on their feet. This legislation will make it easier for businesses to attract investors and in turn will help create jobs and stability in our economy. The President says that he supports this bill and I hope that he will use this opportunity to reconsider the dozens of jobs bills he and the Democrat Senate have rejected." ###
03.07.2012	5 Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement after meeting with business and community leaders from Fort Dodge and Webster County in his Washington, DC office earlier today. Bob Singer, Chairman of the Webster County Board of Supervisors; David Fierke, City Manager of the City of Fort Dodge; Kim Alstott, Fort Dodge City Councilman; Matt Bemrich, Fort Dodge Mayor; Mr. and Mrs. Dennis Plautz, CEO of the Greater Fort Dodge Growth Alliance; and Dawn Larson, City of Fort Dodge Business Affairs Specialist met with Congressman Steve King at his Washington, DC office this morning. "Fort Dodge and Webster County have much to be excited about," said King. "The city and county are poised to benefit from a number of exciting new economic development opportunities that are coming to fruition after years of tireless work and investment from the community. I look forward to working with the city's and county's leaders to continue to build on the successes they've already achieved and to lay the groundwork for new opportunities in the future." 0
03.07.2012	4 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released with following statement after he met with representatives of the Iowa Lakes Corridor Development Corporation today to discuss housing, transportation, and economic development issues important to businesses and communities in Buena Vista, Clay, Dickinson, and Emmet Counties. Julie Johnson, Shaun Arneson, Ron Hanson, Curt Johnson, Tom Wonus, Congressman Steve King, Amber Hanson, Randy Swanson, Samantha Sullivan, Derick Anderson meet in Washington, DC. "I enjoyed the opportunity to get an update on a number of the economic development projects that are advancing in the Iowa Lakes Corridor," said King. "This is an important region of our state, and I look forward to working with the leaders of the Corridor group to promote and preserve northwest Iowa as a desirable place to live, work and invest in new business opportunities." ###
03.02.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today regarding the recent announcement made by Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc. that planned improvements at its Dakota City, Nebraska plant may lead to the closure of Tyson's facility in Denison, Iowa sometime next year. "I know that this was a tough decision for Tyson to make, especially given the history of the Denison plant as the flagship location of the former IBP company," said King. "I understand the business decision that Tyson has made in expanding its operations in Dakota City, but I have been in contact with Tyson and will be working with its leadership to explore new uses for the Denison plant." "We have some time before the full impact of this week's announcement will be felt in Denison, and we are fortunate that the trend in western Iowa seems to indicate that cattle production is increasing. In the coming months, I will continue to work with Tyson to look at other uses for this facility and am hopeful that a decision will be reached that will continue to put the plant and its workforce to good use." 0 ###
03.01.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announced that the five breaches along Missouri River Levee Unites L575 and L550 have been closed. The breaches were sustained during last year's historic flooding along the Missouri River. The Corps set a deadline for completion of the repairs of March 1st, because that is the date associated with the beginning of the runoff season in the Missouri River basin. King has been a vocal advocate for levee repairs to be completed in a timely manner to ensure that those who live, work, and farm in the River bottom have the ability to rebuild their lives, businesses, and farming operations. "The restoration of levees L-550 and L-575 is a significant milestone in the recovery process," said King. "This is particularly good news for the farmers protected by them. Not only will they benefit from the flood protection the levees offer, they will also be spared the expense of triple crop insurance premiums, which would have kicked in if the levees were not repaired before the March 15th cut off for crop insurance purchases." "There certainly are other land reclamation issues to be worked through before all of the acres of farmland that were impacted by last year's flood return to their pre-flood productivity, but this is an important milestone to put behind us." "Now we need to move forward to put in place the next level of flood protection for the basin - passing my legislation, H.R. 2942, which will require the Corps to increase the flood storage space in the River's reservoirs to provide those in the River bottom with protection from a repeat of last year's flooding." 0 ###
03.01.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today regarding yesterday's announcement by the Secretary of Agriculture that he plans to approve the closure of 131 Farm Service Agency offices across the country within 90 days. Three of the affected offices are in Iowa. The criteria for office closures were based on the number of employees the offices had on the payroll in mid-December of 2011. Any office that had two or less employees and was 20 miles or less from another office has been slated for closure. Last year, when the proposal was developed, the Iowa FSA system was under a hiring freeze due to budget issues and therefore offices that had retiring employees experienced lower than normal staffing numbers. This affected the three county offices in Iowa that are set to close. King believes that all government agencies should strive to be more efficient but about the USDA's current proposal to close offices without analyzing their workloads. "One has to question the rationale used by the USDA in pursuing these FSA office closures because it does not take into consideration the actual FSA workload in the affected counties," said King. "Historically we have had a tool to determine the workload in each county office based on the programs offered and the number of participants in those programs. I suspect an analysis of the workloads of these offices would justify keeping them open." "It's also important to note that the FSA offices in Iowa that are slated for closure by Secretary Vilsack are located in counties that have a large number of acres in CRP. Over several decades, this has led to a loss of population, a loss of farmers and shrinkage of our small towns. This proposal will only make things worse for small town and rural Iowa. Soon these counties will begin to see more and more acres come out of CRP. There's no question they'll be hurt by the lack of local FSA offices to help support revitalization of their land and communities. How much of this can small town and rural Iowa withstand? I call upon Secretary Vilsack to reconsider this decision." 0 ###
03.01.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after President Obama, for the fourth year in a row, ignored his legal requirement to produce a plan to strengthen Medicare. Under current law, when the Medicare Trustees issue a warning about Medicare's future solvency (as they have for six consecutive years), the President must submit a proposal to Congress to address such warning within 15 days of submitting his budget. President Obama submitted his Fiscal Year 2013 budget request on February 13, 2012. By failing to submit a Medicare proposal, President Obama is in clear violation of the law. "We know we cannot expect leadership from President Obama on important budget issues, but the American people at least have the right to expect their elected representatives to adhere to their oaths of office and their most basic legal duties," said King. "This week the President ignored his legal obligation to put forward a Medicare proposal, just as Senate Democrats have ignored their annual legal responsibility to put forward a budget for the last three years." Current seniors, as well as the millions of working Americans paying payroll taxes, have the right to expect their elected representatives to take steps to ensure that important programs like Medicare do not collapse. The Medicare Trustees have confirmed the trust fund will be bankrupt by 2024. By signing ObamaCare into law, Obama cut half a trillion dollars from Medicare. Current and long-standing law requires him to propose to Congress a fix to the very problem he created. The House of Representatives has taken action to protect Medicare for current beneficiaries and strengthen it for future generations by repealing ObamaCare and proposing real reforms to strengthen Medicare. In contrast, President Obama and his liberal allies have determined it is to their political advantage to ignore the law, not put forward their own ideas, and criticize and misrepresent Republican efforts to strengthen Medicare." 0 ###
02.28.2012	8 Washington, DC- Congressman King, Congressman Latham and Congressman Boswell sent a letter to Vice President Biden today to encourage him to visit the communities along the Missouri River that were affected by the record breaking flood last year. Biden will travel to Iowa later this week to speak at Iowa State University. King, Latham and Boswell released the following statements after sending the letter: "As we anticipate the beginning of the 2012 runoff season along the Missouri River, many of those who live and work in the river basin are concerned that the federal government has not yet taken the steps necessary to protect them a repeat of the historic flood we experienced in 2011," Congressman King said. "Taking time to visit those who have been affected by the flood will give Vice President Biden a better understanding of the issues that continue to affect the communities impacted by last year's flooding and will inform him about the steps that must be taken to prevent a repeat of last year's flood in the future." "Iowans along the Missouri River have rolled up their sleeves and continue to deal with challenges that resulted from last year's tragic flooding," Congressman Latham said. "The people whose lives were disrupted and devastated deserve a voice in this process as we ensure that they get the help they need and as we look for ways to protect life and property and prevent similar disasters in the future. There's no possible way to gain a full understanding of the real challenges created by last year's flooding other than to visit the affected communities and talk to the hardworking Iowa families who were affected by it. Vice President Biden owes it to the people along the Missouri River to take this opportunity to visit so that the will of the Iowans affected by this tragedy determines the direction as we move forward." "I am pleased Vice President Biden is visiting our state to discuss vital issues facing our country like encouraging businesses to bring jobs back to America," Congressman Boswell said. "Since last year's devastating Missouri flooding, I, and the entire Iowa Congressional Delegation, have been actively meeting with the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal agencies to make certain an event of this magnitude never occurs again and recovery of the areas affected in western Iowa is carried out in an efficient and proper manner. I strongly encourage the Administration to visit the area and communities that have been impacted." 0 ### 0 Click here to view the letter to Vice President Biden.
02.27.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) joined Governor Branstad (R-IA) and members of the Iowa Delegation today to discuss a number of important issues affecting Iowans. King released the following statement after their meeting: "Today's meeting covered a variety of topics ranging from education reform and economic development to transportation and health care," said King. "It's important for us to meet to focus on what we can work together on to develop and maintain the strong status of our state." 0 Congressman King (2nd in from the left) meets with Governor Branstad and other members of the Iowa delegation today in the Capitol. 0 ###
02.24.2012	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Steve King (R-IA) was awarded the USA Wind Jobs Champion award for his "determined support and diligent work in helping to create and sustain U.S. jobs in the wind energy industry and its manufacturing supply chain." Ned Hall, Chairman of the Board of the American Wind Energy Association released the following statement congratulating King on the award and thanking him for his support of the wind industry: "We would like to extend our sincerest appreciation and thanks for your efforts as a USA Wind Jobs Champion. We believe your continued support of the wind energy industry will help keep Americans working and producing valuable goods here on our shores. Record levels of Made-in-the-USA content in the wind sector have helped drive down the price of U.S. wind energy for consumers, and promote America's competitiveness in the global market." "I am honored to be a recipient of this award, and as I continue my work in Congress, I will remain a strong supporter of the wind industry," said King. "I know firsthand that the wind industry is a success story in Iowa, and I'm pleased that this success is now spreading across the country. Wind gives us reliable energy and creates jobs in our communities. Job creation and energy security are two of my top priorities and wind delivers on both." 0 ###
02.17.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting against the Conference Report for H.R. 3630, legislation extending the payroll tax holiday through the end of 2012. "The Social Security program represents a sacred promise to America's seniors. Given the already bleak financial outlook for the Social Security Trust Fund, it's important that Congress avoid doing anything that would do further harm - but that's exactly what the House voted to do today," said King. "Today's vote in the House digs the Social Security Trust Fund hole another $94 billion deeper, resulting in a total $206 billion deficit caused by the reductions in contributions to the fund. Today's vote further imperils the security of a program that America's seniors depend on." 0 ###
02.16.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today to welcome Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping to Iowa: "I regret that I cannot be there to welcome Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping myself, but I know that my fellow Iowans will give the Vice President a warm heartland welcome," said King. "Iowa is a fitting place to develop the relationship between China and America's agricultural leaders, as Iowa is the nation's leading producer of the United States' top export to China - soybeans - and is a leading exporter of corn, pork, and farm and construction equipment. This visit will help to strengthen trade between our two countries and will give us yet another opportunity to show that Iowa sets the standard for agriculture production worldwide." 0 ###
02.15.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King and Senators Chuck Grassley and Tom Harkin released the following statements today after the U.S. Department of Defense announced that the Navy named five new ships, including a new littoral combat ship after Sioux City, Iowa. Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus announced that the USS Sioux City was named "after a Midwestern city from America's heartland, to honor the patriotic, hard-working citizens of Sioux City, Iowa for their support of and contributions to the military." "It is a privilege to have the Navy recognize Sioux City by naming a ship in its newest fleet after an Iowa city. This is a fitting tribute to Sioux City, its residents and the long history of supporting our nation's military. The USS Sioux City will aid in the Navy's effort to continue to defend and protect America around the world," said King. "This is a wonderful tribute to the people of Sioux City and the historical commitment of all those in Siouxland to the defense and security of the United States. Littoral combat ships are described as a major part of the future of the Navy, so it's fitting to name one for a city that is on the move and forward looking," said Grassley. "This is an honor for Iowa and for the hardworking men and women of Sioux City," said Harkin. "The Littoral Combat Ship represents the next generation of ships – it is reliable, yet still agile and can operate in various waters. The people of Sioux City should be honored, as I am as an Iowan, for the Navy's recognition. I commend the Navy and Secretary Mabus for honoring our state in this way," said Harkin. 0 ###
02.15.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after questioning witnesses in a House Judiciary Committee hearing today about the executive overreach of President Obama's recent recess appointments: "Obama said that he 'won't take no for an answer' regarding his nominees and now it's clear he will abuse the power of his office to get his way," said King. "The President's administration continues to trample the Constitution. His actions have spurred the creation of a coalition of conservative and liberal constitutional scholars who all agree on the invalidity of his actions- some of whom I questioned today. Now President Obama is not only taking our liberty through socializing our healthcare, but he's also manufacturing 'recess appointments' and disregards the plain meaning of the text of the Constitution." 0 ###
02.14.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after meeting with Western Iowa Tech (WIT) Community College President Terry Murrell and his colleagues: WIT Trustee Rick Franck, Congressman Steve King, WIT Dean of External Relations Julie Stoik, WIT President Terry Murrell, and WIT Consultant Paula Steiner met today in Congressman Steve King's Washington, DC office to discuss issues important to the college. "Western Iowa Tech is one of the premier education facilities in Iowa," said King. "It was a pleasure to meet with WIT's new President, Terry Murrell, and I appreciated hearing about the business partnerships the college is developing in the Northwestern area of the state to help prepare students for the workforce and further education." ###
02.13.2012	Washington, DC- Today Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement in response to the release of President Obama's Fiscal Year 2013 budget proposal. "The President's plan increases taxes by $1.9 trillion (including a $143 billion "death tax" hike which will hurt family farms across Iowa), hides $1.5 trillion worth of spending in accounting gimmicks, and still adds $11 trillion to the debt. By the end of the President's budget window, $1 trillion of American taxpayer dollars will go simply to servicing our debt." said King. "In 2009, the President promised to do his fair share by cutting the annual federal deficit in half ($650 billion) by the end of his first term. Under this budget, the President breaks this promise and will end his second term in office with a $1.3 trillion annual deficit - despite his plans to increases taxes by $1.9 trillion and his efforts to hide $1.5 trillion worth of spending in accounting gimmicks." "The President continues to campaign on 'fairness,' but hiking up the debt with no end in sight is an injustice to the American people. This budget is simply more proof that President Obama is unwilling to do, by his own definition, his "fair share" to make the tough choices to get our budget to balance." 0 ###
02.09.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after voting for the STOCK Act, legislation that will ensure that members of Congress do not profit financially from insider information. "Today I voted yes on the STOCK Act, which incorporates some ideas that I have been pushing for years as part of my Sunlight Act, such as ensuring that financial disclosures by Members of Congress are posted online in a searchable and sortable format for the general public. And while I support the underlying purpose of the STOCK Act to prevent Member insider trading, I am disappointed that the bill doesn't do more. Even with passage of the STOCK Act, Members will still be able to hide their true income and net worth within large income ranges. This kind of reporting is not transparent. The Sunlight Act will ensure that the general public has the tools they need to identify which Members might be improperly profiteering from their official duties, and I hope that the House will follow today's approval of the STOCK Act with a continued push for greater transparency in Members' finances through passage of the Sunlight Act." 0 ###
02.09.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released video of the speech he gave today before the 2012 Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC). King joined other national conservative leaders in addressing the attendees of the national, three day conference. King's speech focused on the growth of the government's reach into Americans' everyday lives. "I want my liberty back!" said King. "How did a nation born of freedom and liberty lose its freedom and liberty? How does a nation that's blessed by an extraordinary supply of American Exceptionalism submit, inch by creeping inch, to the totalitarian state that's descending upon us?" 0 ###
02.08.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today announcing that he will speak at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) tomorrow, Thursday February 9th at the Marriott Wardman Park Hotel in Washington, DC. "I'm thrilled to be a part of the nation's largest gathering of conservative activists," said King. "It's a time for us to be reminded of the principles upon which America was founded and to hear from other constitutional conservatives about how to guide our nation toward its destiny." 0 Who: Congressman Steve King (R-IA) What: Speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) When: Thursday, February 9, 2012 at 12:10 PM ET, Marriot Ballroom Where: Marriott Wardman Park Hotel 2660 Woodley Road, NW Washington, District Of Columbia 20008 0 ###
02.07.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) announced today that a new position has been created for a public advocate to handle concerns and questions from illegal immigrants about the administration's enforcement of immigration policies: "Today President Obama has appointed a taxpayer-funded legal representative for illegal immigrants," said King. "The President continues to ignore the Rule of Law, which begs the question; where is the Rule of Law Czar? President Obama refuses to enforce immigration law, sues the states that do so and now he's appointed a czar for illegal immigrants. The President is making a conscious decision to evade Congress in order to appease his base. The President must realize that his job description does not include being an advocate for illegal immigrants. It is defined by his obligation to "preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States." 0 ###
02.06.2012	Washington, DC- Today Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement regarding his reintroduction of the Sunlight Act in the 112th Congress. Since 2006, King has introduced the Sunlight Act to increase transparency in the financial disclosure statements that Members of Congress must file on an annual basis. The Sunlight Act would require Members of Congress to report the exact dollar amounts of their earnings and assets, rather than allowing them to report these figures in broad ranges (e.g. between $5 million and $25 million), as is currently the case. The Sunlight Act would also require the subject-matter of debate to be projected onto the wall of the House Chamber to make it easier for Members and visitors in the gallery to track floor action; all bills be posted on the internet for 48 hours before being debated; and all donations to congressional campaigns in the 30 days leading up to an election be reported on the Federal Election Commission's website within 24 hours of the donation being received by the campaign. "The Sunlight Act will give the general public the information and tools they need to identify Members of Congress who may be unethically taking advantage of their positions of influence," said King. "It will also allow the general public and outside groups ample time to look over legislation and ensure that Congress is not trying to slip bad laws past them in the dead of night. The American people deserve transparency and accountability from their elected officials, and the Sunlight Act delivers just that." 0 ###
02.03.2012	Washington, DC - Today Congressman Steve King released the following statement regarding the announcement made today that President Obama's forthcoming FY2013 budget proposal will remove the F-16s from the Iowa Air National Guard's 132nd Fighter Wing based in Des Moines. "Today we learned that big changes may be in store for the mission of the Air Guard in Des Moines. I am very concerned about the impact that this proposal could have on the Iowa Air Guard, and I am frustrated that the Air Force has left us searching for answers as to why a unit that has one of the highest levels of mission readiness, one of the lowest military personnel costs, and some of the most experienced personnel in the Air Guard has been singled out to lose its fighters. The Air Force and the White House need to provide us with answers about the rationale used to justify this move. It appears that a true cost-benefit analysis was not used here, but if the goal is to save the taxpayers money, we should be building up the Guard, not stripping it down. Every dollar invested in the Air National Guard is used as efficiently as possible, and the structure of the Guard allows every federal dollar to be leveraged to its maximum effect," said King. 0 ###
02.03.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released video of the statement he gave yesterday, while participating in a hearing in the Small Business Committee. The hearing focused on proposed rules from the Department of Labor which would threaten the ability of young people to gain valuable experience working on a farm. The rules would restrict any person under the age of 16 from working on a farm that isn't owned or co-owned by his or her parents. King has firsthand experience with training young people to work in rural America, and at the hearing he related a story about how he raised his three sons to appreciate the importance of work. "All three of those sons they are all grown up, and they all work. They enjoy work. Work is an honorable thing. The life that we have in rural America is among the most honorable that we have, and when it's threatened I'm concerned about it ... I just think that it's a mistake for us to even think about lowering the standard ... for youth to work because the work ethic and the way of life is so valuable." 0 ###
02.01.2012	Votes to Repeal the CLASS Act Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after he voted to repeal the Community Living Assistance Services and Supports (CLASS) Act: "Today the vast majority of Democrats in the House opposed the repeal of the CLASS program, an unsustainable component of ObamaCare that even President Obama's administration cannot 'see a viable path forward' for," said King. "This program is a confirmed failure, but Democrats continue to focus on holding on to this legislative trophy rather than on the future of America." "Those who voted for ObamaCare, and those who voted against repealing the CLASS Act, have made it clear that they do not care if their government experiments work, as long as they pave the way for socialized medicine. This vote is proof that everyone who voted for ObamaCare voted for socialized medicine. I will not rest until ObamaCare is 100% repealed." 0 ###
01.31.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (IA-05) released the following statement in response to the Congressional Budget Office releasing their 165 page Budget and Economic Outlook report today: "President Obama promised that his health care bill would bend the cost curve down. Today's CBO report proves that ObamaCare will not, and is not, curbing health care costs, which are spiraling out of control," said King. "Today's numbers show that Americans across the country are once again justified in fighting for the repeal of ObamaCare. The bottom line is that ObamaCare is unsustainable. It accomplishes precisely what it was designed to prevent: increasing health care costs and making our spending crisis worse." "In addition to highlighting the failure of ObamaCare to control health costs, CBO's report demonstrates the government's inability to control spending. CBOs project that we will spend $44 trillion in the next ten years, and that the national debt will balloon to $29 trillion. This is further proof that the results of last year's budget and debt limit battles were completely inadequate to deal with our nation's fiscal situation. The report shows that reducing the deficit is possible, but that it should be done through economic growth, not higher taxes. If the economy grew just 1% faster, revenue would increase by $2.8 trillion, according to CBO. Economic recovery and fiscal discipline is possible- not by raising taxes but by applying pro-growth policies. Unfortunately, we need new leadership in the White House to lead us towards a stable fiscal future and increased economic prosperity." 0 ###
01.25.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (IA-05) released the following video statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union Address tonight: "I'm not very optimistic about going through more of the same without solutions in sight," said King. "And the President, of course is to make the case why he should be elected President. We know that three years ago he said that if he hadn't solved this problem by now, he would be a one term President. It doesn't look like he's going to stick by that willingly, but the American people will remember in November." 0 ###
01.24.2012	6 Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (IA-05) released the following statement following the House Judiciary Committee announcement that it will consider the constitutionality of President Obama's recent recess appointments in a hearing on February 15: "Article II Sec. 2 of the Constitution states, "The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies that may happen during the Recess of the Senate." "The Senate was not in recess, " said King. "The President abused his executive power by defying the Constitution. The move to nominate the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and three members to the National Labor Relations Board without the Constitutionally-required approval of the Senate was clearly a political tactic. Once again, the President has shown a blatant disregard for the Constitution and the important checks and balances put in place by our Founding Fathers. The American people expect and Congress must demand that the President adhere to his oath of office or leave the office itself. The American people will remember in November." 0 ### 0 Congressman King is a cosponsor of Congresswoman Black's resolution of disapproval of the appointments that can be found here. King is also signed onto letters to the President from Congressman Garrett and Congressman Rokita condemning the appointments. The letter from Congressman Garrett can be found here, and the letter from Congressman Rokita can be found here.
01.23.2012	Washington, DC- Today Congressman Steve King (IA-05) joined thousands of pro-life marchers on the National Mall to recognize the 39th anniversary of the passing of Roe vs. Wade and to encourage those involved with the pro-life cause. King continues to be a pro-life leader by sponsoring and supporting pro-life legislation. "This is the 39th year, 53 million American babies aborted. Millions of you come to this Mall every year, younger and younger every year and more and more do you march and do you pray for life, "said King. "Now I see in the last year 24 states have passed 92 pieces of legislation to protect life. It's a new milestone, and when you go back home and you talk to your friends and your relatives tell them there are two things that you need to know. Ask question number one; is human life sacred in all of its forms? Is it sacred? And what instance does life begin? Conception. God bless you. Keep marching, keep praying, we're going to come back here to celebrate the end of Roe vs. Wade." 0 ### 0 In addition to speaking at the rally, Congressman King is hosting a reception for Iowans who came to Washington, DC for the March for Life today at 3:30 ET. To watch a LiveStream of the event click here or to view it on Facebook click here. To view photos from the event check out Congressman King's Flickr.
01.20.2012	7 Sioux City, IA- Congressman Steve King (IA-05) presented six Air Force medals to Iowa resident and Vietnam War Veteran David Napier today. Napier never received the medals he earned while serving over forty years ago, but he received the medals today after seeing a flyer about retrieving unclaimed medals from Congressman King's office. Napier served in the U.S. Air Force from 1961 to 1969 and was honorably discharged with the rank of Sergeant. He served 1 year in Da Nang, Vietnam as a musician in a special entertainment unit in the Air Force called the Black Patches. He was acquainted with many famous civilian entertainers who volunteered their services during the war including Martha Ray, Hank Snow, James Garner, Nancy Sinatra and Robert Mitchum. He is a well known local musician who plays saxophone for Rockestra and other local music groups. David Napier receives the Outstanding Unit Award, Small Arms Expert Marksmanship Ribbon, Air Force Longevity Service Award, Good Conduct Medal with Bronze Oak Leaf Cluster, Republic of Vietnam Service Medal and National Defense Service Medal today from Congressman Steve King. 0 ### 0 Click here to view more photos on Congressman King's Flickr.
01.20.2012	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (IA-05) released the following statement today marking the third anniversary of the inauguration of President Obama: "In an interview shortly after his inauguration about the economy President Obama stated that 'If I don't have this done in three years, then there's gonna be a one-term proposition.' Three years later the evidence is in the numbers," said King. "Unemployment has been above 8 percent for 35 consecutive months, the longest span since the Great Depression. At the beginning of his Presidency, Obama's Administration said that unemployment would never reach 8 percent if the 'stimulus' was approved. Since the 'stimulus,' unemployment has averaged 9.4 percent. Clearly, the 825 billion dollar 'stimulus' failed." "With gas costs at $1.80/gallon in January 2009, and today costing $3.31/gallon, it's obvious that this President continues to cater to the radical environmental lobby at the expense of hardworking Americans who are seeing their own energy costs skyrocket. Just this week, the president pulled the plug on the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline, which would have created tens of thousands of privately funded jobs and eased our burden of energy dependence. The reason Democrats give? It would only create 'temporary jobs.' Apparently permanent, private sector projects only create 'temporary jobs,' but short term, taxpayer 'stimulus spending' creates permanent jobs and economic growth. This anti-private sector, Keynsianism-on-steroids approach has been proven wrong throughout history, and certainly over the last three years. President Obama says 'we can't wait' to get our economy moving. He's right. He should stop campaigning and start taking action on the dozens of job creating bills that House Republicans have put forward." 0 ###
01.18.2012	Washington, DC: Congressman Steve King (IA-05) released the following video statement in response to President Obama's decision to deny the permit to build the job creating Keystone XL pipeline: "If we block it, that oil will certainly go to China. It will enrich their economy," said King. "It will starve ours and it's clear that the President is pacifying his environmental extremist base and at the cost of American jobs and the vitality of America's economy. This is a foolish decision on the part of the President. We're going to have to do all we can in this Congress to reverse that decision, but I fear we'll have to elect a new President before we can actually accomplish that task." 0 ###
01.09.2012	22 Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Steve King (IA-05) along with Congressmen Dana Rohrabacher (CA-46) and Louie Gohmert (TX-01) and Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (CA-47) met with the leaders of Afghanistan's newly formed National Front in Berlin, Germany to discuss overall Afghan strategy and alternative options to Hamid Karazi's consideration to allow the Taliban to join Afghanistan's coalition government. Congressman Gohmert, Congressman King, Congresswoman Sanchez, and Congressman Rohrabacher meet with the Afghan Northern Alliance in Berlin, Germany today. (AP Photo) Congressman King and the individuals, listed below, released the following joint statement at a press conference following their meeting: "We have supported the mission of the Coalition Forces in Afghanistan. It is our fervent desire that the Coalition Forces be successful. Yet, after the departure of the Coalition Forces, the enormous American, Coalition, and Afghan investment with their lives and treasure is currently in great peril of having been in vain. Our concern is that the present political system is dysfunctional because all the power is centralized in a way that no American would tolerate in the United States. The current system has fatally concentrated decision-making to whoever is President of the country. The Afghan President appoints the governors of each province and district, the mayor of every town, every provincial chief of police, one third of the entire Senate, and even every judge in Afghanistan." "This centralized power has led to massive corruption, disenfranchisement of a large segment of the Afghan people, obstacles to economic development, massive abuses of power, increasing political instability, poor governance, and a vast undermining of law and order." "We call for a national dialogue on a revised Constitution to correct the inherent flaws in the present power structure by decentralizing the political system, making it more compatible with the diverse political, social and cultural nature of Afghanistan. The Afghan people deserve and need a parliamentary form of democracy instead of a personality-centered Presidential system." "We firmly believe that any negotiation with the Taliban can only be acceptable, and therefore effective, if all parties to the conflict are involved in the process. The present form of discussions with the Taliban is flawed, as it excludes anti-Taliban Afghans. It must be recalled that the Taliban extremists and their Al-Qaeda supporters were defeated by Afghans resisting extremism with minimal human embedded support from the United States and International community. The present negotiations with the Taliban fail to take into account the risks, sacrifices and legitimate interests of the Afghans who ended the brutal oppression of all Afghans." "In order to speed the withdrawal of international forces, the participants believe it is essential to strengthen regional and national institutions that are inclusive and represent the concerns of all the communities of Afghanistan." "The participants favor a change in the Electoral System from a Single Non Transferable Vote System to a nationally accepted variant of the Proportional Representation system with equal opportunities for independent candidates, the political parties, or tribal representatives. We also support the election of Governors and empowerment of provincial councils. Such elected Governors and provincial councils should also have authority for such things as creating budgets and generating revenue, overseeing police and healthcare, as well as establishing educational authority, if they so desire." 0 Mr. Ahmed Zia Massoud, Chairman, National Front General Abdul Rashid Dostum, Leader, National Islamic Movement of Afghanistan Haji Mohammad Mohaqiq, Leader, People´s Unity Party of Afghanistan Mr. Amrullah Saleh, Former Director, Afghan National Security Directorate Congressman Steve King (R-Iowa) Congressman Dana Rohrabacher (R-California) Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (D-California) 0 ###
12.21.2011	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement regarding H.R. 3719, legislation he introduced requiring that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ensure that the levees and other flood control infrastructure damaged by this year's flooding along the Missouri River is returned to the elevation and design that predates the 2011 flood before any funds are expended to carry out environmental work by the Corps in the River basin. "Repairing and reconstructing the levees and other flood control infrastructure that was damaged by the Missouri River flooding must be the Corps' top priority," said King. "I introduced this legislation knowing that an entire population along the River cannot rebuild until the levees are repaired and many farmers will have to pay triple what they paid last year for crop insurance until the levees are repaired and rebuilt. The legislation will ensure that the Corps directs as much funding as possible to the high priority work of repairing and rebuilding the levees that protect the lives, property, and livelihoods of those living in the River bottom." 0 ###
12.20.2011	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Steve King released the following statement after an independent panel of experts released their after action report of this year's Missouri River flooding entitled, "Review of the Regulation of the Missouri River Mainstem Reservoir System During the Flood of 2011." The report contained information about how the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers managed the Missouri River before, during, and after this year's flood, and it contained several recommendations about steps to be taken in order to avoid a repeat of this year's flooding in the future. One of the panel's recommendations was a call for a "review of the System storage allocations, to include the flood-control storage needed for floods like 2011 or larger." This recommendation falls in line with H.R. 2942, legislation Congressman King has introduced to recalculate the total amount of flood control storage space within the Missouri River Reservoir System so that it is sufficient to control the runoff experienced during this year's flood. "For months, I have been arguing that Congress must take action to require the Corps to update the amount of storage capacity in the System that is geared toward flood control," said King. "The Pick Sloan Program was built to protect us from the worst flooding ever experienced - which at that time was the flood of 1881. This year we experienced a new worst case scenario for flooding on the Missouri River, and we should update the management of the System accordingly. My bill would do this, and I am pleased that that panel recognized the need for this kind of change in the recommendations it made today." 0 ###
12.18.2011	Washington, DC- Today Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after Congress passed legislation to provide $8.1 billion in emergency funding for disaster recovery. The bill included $6.4 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund and $1.7 billion in funding for disaster recovery assistance through the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the Corps). The legislation passed the House yesterday, with King's support. Additionally, the House passed, and King supported, legislation to offset the cost of the disaster aid with an across-the-board cut to non-defense spending in Fiscal Year 2012. The legislation was approved by the Senate today, although the offset for the disaster relief was stripped out by a vote of 43-56. The legislation now awaits the president's signature. "This year's flooding along the Missouri River did significant amounts of damage to homes, businesses, and farm land, and it greatly weakened much of the infrastructure that's in place up and down the river to protect us from flooding," said King. "The Corps has estimated that nearly $750 million in damage was done to the levees and other flood control infrastructure in the Missouri River basin. Getting our levees repaired to their pre-flood specifications has been a priority of mine since water levels crested. Without the protection of the levees, home owners and businesses will be unable to rebuild and many farmers will be forced to pay triple crop insurance premiums. This funding will give FEMA the resources it needs and will provide the Corps the resources necessary to repair flood protection structures to, and I emphasize this, their pre-flood elevations. Finally, beleaguered flood victims can see at least one positive step that Congress has taken." "For several months, I have said that emergency disaster aid should be offset with cuts to line items in the budget that are of less priority," said King. "I was pleased that this position prevailed in the House yesterday with the vote to pay for the disaster relief that was passed. This was the right and responsible thing to do. Unfortunately, Senate Democrats oppose responsible federal spending and seem to believe that continued deficit spending is preferable to prioritized spending. It appears their view is that rebuilding levees and other critical infrastructure is of no higher priority than any other line item in our federal budget. I disagree. I believe our nation's fiscal situation requires us to carefully prioritize federal spending. I am pleased that the House followed this principle, and I am disappointed in the Senate's failure to do the same." 0 ###
12.16.2011	Washington, DC- Today Congressman Steve King (R-IA) introduced the the New Illegal Deduction Elimination (New IDEA) Act. New IDEA clarifies that wages and benefits paid to illegals are not tax deductible. It gives employers "safe harbor" if they use the E-verify program, which ensures employment documents identify lawful workers. When the IRS determines employees are illegal, the business expense for the wages and benefits paid to them will be denied and will instead become taxable income. When taxes are assessed, including interest and penalty, a $10/hour illegal worker costs the employer approximately $16/hour. New IDEA is serious about cracking down on illegal labor and leveling the playing field for law-abiding employers. Congressman King released the following statement regarding the introduction of the New IDEA act: "This is the most effective immigration legislation that has come before Congress since I have been here," King said. "I guarantee it will shut down the jobs magnet in the United States and give employers the incentive to voluntarily clean up their own workforce. The New IDEA Act will start solving the illegal worker problem and open up as many as 8 million jobs for Americans." King was joined by 24 co-sponsors, including lead original cosponsor, Congressman Louie Gohmert, and Congressman Brian Bilbray, Chair of the Immigration Reform Caucus. Gohmert and Bilbray released the following statements regarding the New IDEA act: "The beauty of the New IDEA Act by my friend, Congressman King, is its clarity and simplicity," Gohmert said. "The principle should have gone without saying; but, unfortunately, in Congress, it must be said so all here understand. We cannot afford to keep paying all the benefits for people who are illegally here helping push us toward a bankrupt country no one wants. Steve's principle is that if an employer hires people, who are not legally here, they are not legally employed; and, therefore, their expense is not legally deductible." "There is no question that the promise of illegal jobs is the greatest magnet for illegal immigration. The New IDEA act gets to the heart of our illegal immigration problem and attacks it at the source, employers who willingly provide jobs to illegal immigrants," stated Bilbray. 0 ###
12.15.2011	Washington, DC- Today Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after President Obama and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid took steps to derail bi-partisan legislation passed yesterday by the House to extend a cut in the payroll tax for another year. The cost of the extension was fully offset, and the bill was supported by every member of Iowa's House Delegation. However, the President and Senator Reid have suggested that because the payroll tax holiday is not paid for by a new tax on small business owners and job creators, they will plan to hold up the rest of Congress' year end, must-pass legislation until their demands for new tax increases are met. The legislation passed by the House also included provisions to reauthorize the national flood insurance program, extend and reform unemployment benefits, prevent physicians from seeing a 27% cut in Medicare reimbursements, and an extension of several tax deductions and credits for businesses. "For months, the President and Senator Reid have called for an extension of the payroll tax holiday that was passed last year," he said. "Yesterday, I joined the rest of the Iowa delegation in supporting commonsense legislation to do just that. The bill was fully paid for and included a number of other important provisions related to reforming unemployment benefits, updating the flood insurance program, giving businesses certainty in the tax code and incentives to grow, and ensuring seniors' access to physicians through Medicare. The President has said that the extension of this payroll tax holiday topped his list of year end priorities. We now know that his real priority is increasing the tax burden on the small business owners and job creators who are seeking to put Americans back to work." 0 ###
12.15.2011	Washington, DC- Today the Justice Department announced investigation findings stating that Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio, an ardent defender of liberty and a champion of immigration law has been practicing "discriminatory policing." Congressman Steve King released the following remarks in response to the biased and politically motivated conclusions: "I defend Joe Arpaio," said King. "I think he needs to continue with the tent city. And I think that the Department of Justice should not be using themselves as a tool, a political tool, to push back against people that are working to enforce the law." ###
12.08.2011	Washington, DC - Today Congressman Steve King released the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Transportation's decision to select American Eagle Airlines to provide essential air service (EAS) at Sioux City. "I am pleased that the DOT has granted the City of Sioux City's request and selected American Eagle as the EAS provider in Sioux City," said King. "Round trip service to Chicago O'Hare fits well with the demands of those travelling to and from Sioux City, and I am hopeful that this service will help to increase the air traffic in and out of Sioux City. Commercial air service is an important driver of economic development and growth in today's fast-paced, interconnected, and global economy. Sioux City has historically done very well to leverage community assets like reliable air service to attract new opportunities, and today's decision ensures that it will be able to continue to do so for the foreseeable future." 0 ###
12.08.2011	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) questioned Attorney General Eric Holder today in the Judiciary Committee regarding the Fast and the Furious scandal. King released the following statement after the hearing: "I hope they have caught the murderer of Brian Terry, that'd go a long ways towards solving this," King said. "But meanwhile we have a government that was dysfunctional. We have some, at least 150 maybe as many as 300 Mexicans that have been killed by the guns that were run out of the southern part of the United States with the blessing of the Justice Department and the people that they regulate. And so we have Brian Terry who is dead in a tragic death and shooting." King added, "The last time that Holder testified before us was May 3 of this year and when he was asked when he learned about Fast and Furious, he said "I'm not sure of the exact date, but I probably heard about Fast and Furious for the first time over the last few weeks." He has since had to retract his statement because the facts prove him wrong. Today when asked by Congressman Issa if he had provided all of the information requested, he said yes, but later in the hearing Congressman Franks was able to ask the question in a different way and found that Eric Holder had not produced the information requested by the Oversight Committee." 0 ###
12.08.2011	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) questioned the former Chief Executive Officer of MF Global Jon Corzine during a hearing held in the Agriculture Committee today. King released the following video statement following the hearing: "When listening to Jon Corzine give answer after answer that was vague, he spoke slowly, like he'd been coached to speak slowly to run out the clock," said King. "I thought his answers were vague, they lacked precision, they lacked facts, they lacked accuracy, and I didn't think he had any intention of telling us everything that he knew. And I don't think we were able to ask all the questions necessary to pin Jon Corzine down. But I do believe the truth will come out, and I believe that there has been federal law that's been violated. There's $1.2 billion dollars missing here, and we've got to get to the bottom of it. Jon Corzine did clarify one thing, and that is that he doesn't intend to commit his personal fortune to help with this big hole that's been created by his judgment and he didn't either concede that he expects to take a personal loss in these transactions." 0 ###
12.07.2011	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King and Senator Chuck Grassley met with senior leadership of the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center yesterday to discuss a recent memo released by the Medical Center prohibiting the use and distribution of Bibles and other religious materials during visits to wounded soldiers. After receiving the memo on December 2nd, King called Vice Admiral John Mateczun, Commander of the Joint Task Force National Capital Region Medical, and Rear Admiral Alton Stocks, Commander of Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, to Capitol Hill. King and Grassley were informed that the memo was worded improperly, that the Medical Center has rescinded the memo, and that a new memo will be drafted to affirmatively assert that religious items and artifacts are welcome in the hospital, if they are welcomed by the patient. King and Grassley released the following statements after the meeting: "The meeting with Vice Admiral Mateczun, Rear Admiral Stocks, and Senator Grassley was productive because the Walter Reed staff has agreed to write a new rule that affirms a visitor's ability to bring Bibles and other religious material when they visit," King said. "I have asked to look over the new rule before it's officially released and that they identify the individual who is responsible for writing this unconstitutional nonsense." "The Defense Department appears to have acted in good faith by retracting the original statement and releasing a statement of regret. I appreciate that officials are making efforts to get to the bottom of how this horrible language came about," Grassley said. "I look forward to seeing the new policy and will reserve judgment until that time." 0 ###
12.07.2011	Washington, DC- Congressman Steve King released the following statement to honor the anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor: "As I reflect on the ultimate sacrifice that was made by more than 2,400 service Americans on this day seventy years ago, I am reminded of the magnitude of the American spirit," King said. "The loss of life was tragic, yet the country stood strong in in the face of tyranny. As the son of a World War II Veteran, I have the utmost respect for the valor and strength it takes to defend liberty. In my duties in Congress I have had the opportunity to meet the brave men and women who fight to keep us safe, just as my father did in the Pacific during World War II. On this anniversary, every American should take the opportunity to not just reflect upon the attack on Pearl Harbor but also to consider the principles of American exceptionalism that set our nation apart. We are a nation founded on liberty and we must continue to both stand strong against our enemies as well as set the example for freedom around the world." 0 ###
12.02.2011	King spoke about a new rule that bans wounded soldiers from receiving religious materials at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center Washington D.C.- Congressman King (R-IA) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives last night to shed light on a flawed visitor policy at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. A recent memo from the Commander of Walter Reed, Rear Admiral Alton Stocks, indicates that the use and distribution of religious materials, such as Bibles, during visits to wounded soldiers is now prohibited. Congressman Kings speaks on the floor of the House about the memo that describes the new visitor policy at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. "Mr. Speaker, these military men and women who are recovering at Walter Reed in Bethesda have given their all for America," said King. "They've given their all for America, and they've defended and taken an oath to the Constitution, and here they are. The people that come to visit them can't bring a religious artifact? They can't bring a Bible? They can't use them in the services? A priest can't walk in with the Eucharist and offer communion to a patient who might be on their deathbed because it's prohibited in this memo." 0 ###
11.30.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement after joining other Members from the Missouri River basin in offering testimony to a House Subcommittee about this year's Missouri River flooding. King spoke about the damage done by the historically high waters and he pressed for action on H.R. 2942, legislation he has introduced to require the Army Corps of Engineers to increase the amount of storage capacity in the River's reservoir system that is set aside for flood control so that it is sufficient to handle the amount of runoff experienced this year. Several other Members representing areas along the Missouri River also offered testimony before the Subcommittee and similarly stressed the need for Congressional action to require the Corps to prioritize flood control in its management of the River. "Today's hearing made clear that a consensus has emerged in the Missouri River basin about what needs to be done to address the unprecedented flooding we experienced this year," said King. "The testimony offered today stressed one point above all others - the Corps needs to make flood control its priority in the management of the River, and Congress needs to act to make it happen. For several months I have worked with a bi-partisan group of Members representing areas up and down the River on H.R. 2942, legislation to require the Corps to increase the storage capacity in the River's reservoir system so that there's enough storage capacity to handle the runoff we saw this year. This is common sense legislation that, if passed, will require the Corps to take the steps necessary to prioritize flood control and protect us from a repeat of this year's flooding. It's time for Congress to act, and H.R. 2942 provides us with the opportunity to do so." 0 ###
11.22.2011	King, members of Missouri River and Iowa delegations, send letter to House Appropriators to ask that reconstruction work be prioritized over environmental concerns along River Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King today announced that he has written to the leaders of the House Appropriations Committee to ask that funding for the reconstruction of levees and other flood mitigation infrastructure damaged during this year's Missouri River flooding be given priority over spending on environmental projects along the River in the forthcoming Fiscal Year 2012 Appropriations bill dealing with the Army Corps of Engineers work along the Missouri River. King was joined on the letter by other members of Iowa's delegation in the House and several other lawmakers who represent communities in the Missouri River basin. King released the following statement regarding the letter and the need to ensure the Corps focuses its efforts on the reconstruction of flood mitigation infrastructure: "Over the last decade, we have watched as the Corp's spending on environmental concerns has exploded, while, at the same time, its funding of flood prevention work has dwindled," said King. "This year's flooding wreaked havoc on levees and other infrastructure up and down the river. The severity and length of the flood pushed many levees to their breaking point, with some washing out altogether. In this time of record debt and deficits, we need to make sure we're placing the highest priority possible on every dollar spent from the Treasury. And right now, with whole communities unable to begin the rebuilding process and farmers up and down the river facing triple flood insurance premiums in the absence of repaired levees, the highest priority for the use of federal funds in the Missouri River basin is to get the levees and other infrastructure rebuilt to their pre-flood specifications." King was joined by 9 other Members in the letter to to the House Appropriations Committee leaders, including Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO), Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE), Rep. Leonard Boswell (D-IA), Rep. Bruce Braley (D-IA), Rep. Todd Akin (R-MO), Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO), Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO), Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-IA), and Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS). ###
11.21.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King released the following statement after the 12 members of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, the budget cutting "super committee," announced that they were unable to find an agreement on at least $1.2 trillion in cuts: "The "super committee" failed because President Obama, Nancy Peolsi, and Harry Reid were not willing to give their negotiators the flexibility to explore crucial spending reductions and entitlement reforms without the enactment of job killing tax increases," said King. "Today's announcement by the "super committee" highlights the difficulties facing our nation. But it also highlights the need for renewed efforts to pass a meaningful balanced budget amendment to the Constitution." "It is important to note that even if the "super committee" were successful, the result ten years from now would be a meager $2 trillion reduction in the deficit from $28 trillion to $26 trillion. We cannot solve the fiscal challenges facing our nation with Blue Ribbon Commissions and super committees. Big government interests will always fight efforts to substantively reign in government. That is why we need a strong balanced budget amendment that will tie federal spending to 18% of GDP and require a super majority for tax increases. Such a BBA will force Congress to act," said King. 0 ###
11.18.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after voting for H.J. Res. 2, legislation proposing a Balanced Budget Amendment to the United States Constitution: "Today Speaker John Boehner tried a mighty effort to get Democrats to go along with a version of a Balanced Budget that he believed Democrats would vote for," said King. "I think that what was proven today is that Democrats are opposed to any balancing of the budget, because they voted against this very weak Balanced Budget Amendment that doesn't have enough teeth in it, in my view... So now the next step needs to be, let's get the Balanced Budget Amendment right. Let's put in an 18 % cap for spending on gross domestic product. Let's require a 2/3 super majority in order to raise taxes." "We need to get that into the dialogue of the presidential candidates; elect a president who receives a mandate from the American people calling for such an amendment; put that before the next Congress; and send it to the states for ratification, so that our grandchildren aren't living in this perpetual debt that's been passed here and spent by this Congress and signed by this President." Congressman King also spoke yesterday to the Tea Party Debt Commission about the importance of a strong Balanced Budget Amendment. 0 ###
11.17.2011	Legislation establishes "Congressional Line Item Veto"; would force House to cut federal spending on a quarterly basis Washington, D.C. - Today Congressman Steve King introduced the Cut the Unnecessary Tab (CUT) Resolution. The legislation would amend House Rules to require that a rescissions bill be brought to the House floor under and open rule. Any amendment to cut unobligated spending from the federal budget can be considered. This will allow any Member the opportunity to cut and cancel unnecessary, wasteful, and bloated government spending. King released the following statement regarding the introduction of the legislation: "Many line items in the federal budget pass Congress without Members having an opportunity to amend them out, because they are stuffed into unamendable bills like Conference Reports and Continuing Resolutions" said King. "As a result, Members are often compelled to vote up or down on huge sums of federal spending without any opportunity to address the specific line items. The CUT Resolution would usher in a fundamental change to this process." "In effect, the CUT Resolution establishes a Congressional line item veto. Every quarter, each unobligated dollar of federal spending would be under scrutiny by the House, and Members would have the ability to claw back unobligated spending even after it's left the President's desk. This will bring a new level of transparency and accountability to Congress and the federal budget, and during this time of record debt and deficits, this is something we desperately need." The CUT Resolution was introduced today in the House of Representatives with the support of four original cosponsors: Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX), Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Rep. Joe Walsh (R-IL), and Rep. Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA). 0 ###
11.16.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its decision to hear the challenge to President Obama's health care reform law: "If the Supreme Court throws out ObamaCare as unconstitutional, then the message will be sent that the President has pushed unconstitutional impositions on the American people, rejected by the Supreme Court," said King."If the Supreme Court instead upholds ObamaCare, which I don't expect, then the voters will understand the only recourse they have is to vote Barrack Obama out of office and elect a President who will sign the repeal of ObamaCare. And if 66% of a union heavy turnout in Ohio embraced the rejection of ObamaCare, I think President Obama's campaign will sink like a rock." 0 ###
11.15.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a town hall meeting on Monday, November 21. The town hall meeting, which is open to the public and to the press, will be held at the Good Samaritan Society nursing home in Le Mars. The event will run from 10:00-11:00 AM CST. "I hope you will join me at my town hall next Monday," said King. "I look forward to answering your questions about what's going on in Washington and having the opportunity to address the concerns of my constituents." Plymouth County Town Hall Meeting Scheduled for Monday, November 21 Event is open to the public and to the press Event: Plymouth County Town Hall Meeting w/ Congressman Steve King Date: Monday November 21, 2011 Time: 10:00-11:00 AM CST Location: Good Samaritan Society 1140 Lincoln Street Northeast Le Mars, IA For more information, please contact Brittany Lesser at 202.226.2388. ###
11.04.2011	12 Congressman King introduces legislation to place duties on Chinese merchandise for violations of United States intellectual property rights Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after introducing legislation today that punishes the People's Republic of China for its failure to protect the holders of United States intellectual property rights. King's legislation, H.R. 3375, directs the President to impose duties on merchandise from China in an amount equivalent to the estimated annual loss of revenue to holders of United States intellectual property rights as a result of violations of such intellectual property rights in China. Under King's bill, the revenue raised by the imposition of duties on Chinese merchandise will be proportionally distributed to provide compensation to holders of United States intellectual property rights. "The creative genius of Americans, protected by our copyrights, trademarks and patents, is systematically being pirated by the Chinese whose government appears to be complicit," said King. "My bill levies a duty on all Chinese imports in an amount necessary to both pay U.S. property rights holders for their stolen intellectual property and to administer the program. In short, it says to the Chinese: 'Go ahead and steal U.S. intellectual property-we will do what you have refused to do and pay American innovators their due from the duties on Chinese goods.'" A Congressional Research Service (CRS) report released on Sept. 30, 2011 (RL33536) quantifies the scale of Chinese intellectual property violations. According to the report, American intellectual property holders are deprived of billions of dollars each year due to piracy in China. The CRS report provided the following facts and figures illuminating the scale of the problem King's bill is addressing: • The U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) estimates that U.S. intellectual property-intensive firms that conducted business in China lost $48.2 billion in sales, royalties, and license fees in 2009 because of IPR violations in China. • The International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA) estimated that business software piracy in China alone cost U.S. firms $3.4 billion in lost trade in 2009. • The Business Software Alliance (BSA) estimates the commercial value of illegally used software in China in 2009 was $7.6 billion, a $900 million increase over 2008 levels. The CRS report also notes that China's efforts to combat intellectual property theft have been ineffective. According to CRS, "critics of China's IPR regime note that, even when the Chinese government enforces its IPR laws, the resulting fines, seizures, and other punishments are often not significant enough to act as an effective deterrence against piracy." By placing compensatory duties on Chinese merchandise, King's legislation provides China with an important incentive to strengthen their protections for holders of intellectual property rights. 0 ### 0 Click here to view a copy of Congressman King's legislation.
11.03.2011	King's Resolution Supports November 6th as a National Day of Remembrance for the victims of crimes committed by illegal aliens Washington D.C.- Washington D.C.- Congressman King (R-IA) joined the FIRE Coalition and the Tea Party Immigration Coalition this morning to recognize the victims who have lost their lives because of the criminal acts of illegal aliens. Since 1955, there have been 25,065 homicide arrests of criminal aliens in the United States, and King's resolution aims to honor and mourn these preventable deaths. Congressman King speaks about his National Day of Remembrance Resolution outside the Capitol Building "These are real human stories, there's real pain and real agony going on on a daily basis in the United States of America, and we treat it as if it's just some kind of tolerable interruption of our lives. It's not. It's an interruption of innocent lives that takes place because we have an administration that refuses to enforce immigration law." 0 ###
11.03.2011	Congressman King looks forward to discussing his Missouri River legislation with members of the House Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King announced today that the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee's Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment will hold a hearing on Wednesday, November 30, 2011, to discuss the historic flooding that was experienced along the Missouri River this year. During the hearing, it is expected that King and other Members who represent areas along the Missouri River will have the opportunity to address the Subcommittee and discuss concerns that have been raised about the management of the Missouri River. It is also expected that officials from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will appear before the Subcommittee to answer questions about the role it played in this year's flooding. On October 12, 2011, King joined other members of the Missouri River delegation in writing Chairman John Mica to request that a hearing be held. Yesterday, King and Congressman Sam Graves (R-MO) met with Mica in person and discussed the issue of Missouri River flooding further. King released the following statement regarding the upcoming hearing. "I am pleased that the House will hold a hearing later this month to discuss this year's historic flooding," said King. "As I've said for several months, the Pick Sloan reservoir system was built to protect us from the worst flooding experienced along the Missouri River - which until this year, was the flooding of 1881. As anyone who lives along the Missouri River can attest, this year's flooding raised the bar for the 'worst case scenario' flood event. As such, we need to update the Master Manual and the management of the River accordingly. I've introduced H.R. 2942 to do just that, and I look forward to discussing my legislation with the members of the Subcommittee during this hearing." 0 ###
11.02.2011	8 Congressman King commends efforts leading to today's reopening of flood-damaged highway Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement celebrating today's reopening of I-680 in Pottawattamie County. I-680 is being reopened to traffic after only 34 working days of construction. Congressman Steve King (right) and Iowa DOT District Engineer Troy Jerman discuss the reopening of I-680 during King's October 28th visit to the I-680 construction site. "I am impressed with the work that has been done to reopen all four lanes of I-680 to traffic, and I can't wait to drive this stretch of interstate again" said King. "As someone who spent his career in construction, I understand the challenges associated with repairing this flood-damaged roadway. Governor Branstad and his team should be commended for putting a plan in place that would allow I-680 to be reopened quickly, and the contractors and crews who worked on this project should be applauded for their around-the-clock repair efforts. The reopening of I-680 is one more important step forward as Iowans continue to recover from the damage caused by the flood." On September 21, Iowa DOT Director Paul Trombino presented Congressman King with the state's proposal for reopening stretches of flood damaged highways in the state. After reviewing the plan, King expressed optimism that the state would meet its goal of opening I-680 this fall. A press release associated with the September 21 meeting can be found by clicking this link. 0 ###
10.25.2011	Congressman King tells attendees that HR 2942 is necessary to protect against future floods Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) yesterday attended the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' public meeting in Omaha, Nebraska to discuss the importance of Congressional passage of his flood control legislation, H.R. 2942. King's legislation requires the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to increase the amount of storage space in the Missouri River Reservoir System that is dedicated for flood control, and its passage and enactment into law would provide protection against future episodes of significant downstream flooding. During the public meeting, King stated that the flooding has caused billions of dollars in damage, and that his legislation is intended to prevent such widespread and costly damage from occurring in the future. Congressman King- "The value that it's going to take to put this all back together down here is counted in hundreds of millions, in fact I believe it's counted in billions. So I want to protect us from those billions in future years, and that's why I'm pushing this particular legislation...I will continue to work with the Corps and all of the public up and down the river to try to get the best result we can." On Sunday, the Omaha World-Herald published Congressman King's op-ed discussing the importance of requiring the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to update its flood control storage policies. The Omaha World-Herald has previously editorialized in favor of Congressman King's flood control bill, calling H.R. 2942 "a logical place to start as federal and state officials look for ways to keep such a devastating flood from happening again." Congressman King's flood control legislation has received strong, bipartisan support from Members of Congress representing both upstream and downstream Missouri River states. Original cosponsors of the King bill include: Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD), Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO), Rep. Emanuel Cleaver II (D-MO), Rep. Vicki Hartzler (R-MO), Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO), Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE), Rep. Tom Latham (R-IA), Rep. Leonard Boswell (D-IA), Rep. Bruce Braley (D-IA) and Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-IA). 0 ### 0 Click here to view more photos on Congressman King's Flickr.
10.20.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement in reaction to the announcement that deposed Libyan dictator, Moammar Gadhafi, has been killed. "Moammar Gadhafi was a brutal tyrant with American blood on his hands who will not be missed and whose death should not be mourned," said King. "Gadhafi's crimes against Americans are numerous, and they include the 1986 bombing of a nightclub in Germany which killed an American serviceman, and the 1988 terror bombing of a Pan Am flight in the skies above Lockerbie, Scotland which killed 189 Americans and 270 people in all. For over 40 years, Americans and Libyans alike have suffered at Gadhafi's hands, and I hope that his death brings comfort and peace to all those who bear the emotional and physical scars of his dictatorial rule." 0 ###
10.20.2011	7 For his 20 years of service as President of Western Iowa Tech Community College Sioux City, IA - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) paid tribute to recently retired Dr. Robert Dunker at Western Iowa Tech Community College yesterday. King acknowledged Dr. Dunker for his 20 year dedication to the college's students and his commitment to expanding their career training opportunities. On September 21, 2011, Congressman King recognized Dr. Dunker in remarks submitted for printing in the Congressional Record, part of which is included below: A copy of the congressional record was presented to Dr. Dunker from Congressman King and will be placed in the new Dr. Robert E. Dunker Student Center. "I can confidently say that I have known few people over the years who possess Dr. Dunker's vision and determination to effect positive change, not just for the students at Western Iowa Tech, but for the community at large. Dr. Dunker recognized early on that to meet the educational needs of the area, Western Iowa Tech needed to transition from a vocational/technical school to a full service, comprehensive community college, with arts and general science classes complementing the school's existing foundation of technical and career education. Dr. Dunker also saw the need to develop partnerships with area K-12 schools, postsecondary institutions, and the broader education community in order to leverage the educational resources of Western Iowa for the betterment of all Iowans." 0 ###
10.20.2011	8 Honored by Grassroots Organization RetireSafe Sioux City, IA - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) was recognized yesterday by the organization RetireSafe for his ongoing commitment to the interests of seniors. RetireSafe is a grassroots organization that advocates and educates on behalf of America's seniors on issues regarding Social Security, Medicare, health and financial well being. (Left to Right): Al Cors, Troy Arends, Brenda Winkler and Sister Janet Schumacher present 'Standing Up for America's Seniors' Award to Congressman Steve King "I'm pleased to accept the 'Standing up for America's Seniors' Award," said Congressman Steve King. "RetireSafe realizes that one of the biggest threats to senior health care is ObamaCare because of the significant negative impact it will have on affordable Medicare. I appreciate being recognized for my effort to repeal the law." According to RetireSafe, the 'Standing Up for America's Senior's' Award "commemorates elected officials' leadership in standing up for seniors through their policy choices and through their actions in the community. In Congress, these members have opposed harmful cuts, limits to access, and other moves that would increase healthcare costs for seniors in the Medicare program." 0 ###
10.19.2011	9 Congressman King Inspects the Damage to the Land and Infrastructure Sioux City, IA - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) toured the flood damaged area along the Missouri River this afternoon during the district work period. The tour took place hours after Congressman King's aid in the effort to establish FEMA individual assistance was realized for the Fremont, Harrison, Mills, Monona, and Pottawattamie counties. Photo taken by Congressman King while touring the flooded area of the Missouri River "Seeing the scope of the damage firsthand makes me even more focused on the passage of H.R. 2942, my bill that would give us a high level of assurance that our families, farms and infrastructure will never again be devastated by another flood along the Missouri River." 0 ### 0 Find more pictures from the tour here. More information about H.R. 2942 here.
10.19.2011	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Steve King announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has granted Iowa's request for individual disaster relief from Missouri River flooding. Iowa counties Fremont, Harrison, Mills, Monona, and Pottawattamie have now been given access to the Individual Assistance disaster aid program. Iowa's request for Individual Assistance for these counties was initially denied by FEMA. King supported Governor Branstad's appeal effort and led Iowa's unanimous Congressional delegation request for a reversal of the initial decision from FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate. In making the announcement, King released the following statement: "All other states affected received the designation weeks ago. Six Iowa counties saw hundreds of thousands of acres under water all summer and into the fall. As the water receded, Iowa was able to quantify the damage in order to qualify for individual disaster relief. This has been the longest summer and fall for thousands of western Iowans. I'm relieved they will now get some relief. Next, we have to pass my legislation, H.R. 2942, which requires the US Army Corps of Engineers to manage the reservoirs to protect us from serious flooding in the case of the largest runoff experienced which is no longer the 1881 flood but 2011." 0 ###
10.12.2011	Congressman King votes in favor of enacting Free Trade Agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama. Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), a member of both the House Agriculture Committee and the House Small Business Committee, released the following statement after today voting in favor of enacting three pending Free Trade Agreements (FTA's) with South Korea, Colombia and Panama. All three Free Trade Agreements passed the House of Representatives this evening. "The Free Trade Agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama will provide a boost to Iowa's economy by opening overseas markets to Iowa's goods," said King. "The benefits of increased trade with these countries will be particularly evident in Iowa's agriculture sector, as these three FTA's are expected to increase Iowa's agriculture exports by $162 million a year and to create over 1,400 new agriculture related jobs in the state. I am pleased to support these important trade deals, and I look forward to Iowa receiving the economic benefits their enactment will provide." According to an analysis prepared by the Iowa Farm Bureau, the state of Iowa will see an increase in direct agricultural exports of $162.2 million a year as a result of these three Free Trade Agreements, $60.3 million in Iowa's Fifth Congressional District alone. In addition, the Iowa Farm Bureau has projected that enactment of these three Free Trade Agreements will lead to the creation of 1,460 new agriculture-related jobs in the state, including 542 in the Fifth Congressional District. Prominent supporters of the Free Trade Agreements in Iowa include: Gov. Terry Branstad; Secretary Bill Northey, Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship; Director Debi Durham, Iowa Partnership for Economic Progress; Director Theresa Wahlert, Iowa Workforce Development; the Iowa Farm Bureau; the Iowa Soybean Association; the Iowa Corn Growers Association; and the Iowa Pork Producers. 0 ###
10.11.2011	9 Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) has joined with the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute to honor Dee and Kenny McIntyre of Glenwood as 2011 Angels in Adoption awardees. The McIntyre's were nominated for this honor in recognition of their commitment to meeting the needs of both foster and adoptive children and foster and adoptive parents. Angels in Adoption awardees from throughout the country were recognized for their outstanding advocacy on behalf of adoption issues during a series of events held in Washington last week. Congressman Steve King joined Dee McIntyre and two of her four adopted children, Samuel and Dylan, for the "Angels in Adoption House Pin Ceremony" honoring "Angels in Adoption" awardees. "Through their actions, Dee and Kenny McIntyre have made life better for children in western Iowa," said King. "Not only have the McIntyre's adopted four children, but Dee also helps meet the needs of adoptive parents in her community by coordinating a support group for foster and adoptive parents in Mills County. The McIntyre's have truly earned the title of 'Angels in Adoption', and it gives me great pleasure to honor them for this achievement." Dee and Kenny McIntyre began their adoption journey 10 years ago when they first began fostering children. Since that time, the McIntyre's have adopted four children, including three children they have fostered, adding two sons, Samuel and Dylan, and two daughters, Abby and Aubrey, to their family. These children, who come from very different backgrounds, are all flourishing under the McIntyre's care. Dee McIntyre has further demonstrated the McIntyre's commitment to adoption and foster care by coordinating a support group for foster and adoptive parents in Mills County. In this role, she has been instrumental in bringing relevant training to the area. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is a 501(c) 3 nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of orphans and foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes through adoption. The Angels in Adoption™ program is CCAI's signature public awareness campaign and provides an opportunity for all members of the U.S. Congress to honor the good work of their constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. 0 ###
10.06.2011	9 Congressman King joins Congressional letter expressing concern over Turkish government's interference with Orthodox Christian Church Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today announced that he has signed onto a Congressional letter that asks President Obama to urge the government of Turkey to take specific steps to end its ongoing interference with the religious freedom of the Ecumenical Patriarchate. The Ecumenical Patriarchate is the highest see and holiest center for 300 million Orthodox Christians worldwide. King discussed the issue of Turkish interference with the Orthodox Christian Church while meeting with Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, Archbishop of Constantinople and New Rome, during a recent Congressional delegation trip to Turkey, Cyprus and Greece. (From Right to Left): Congressman Steve King meets with Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, the 270th successor of the 2,000 year old local Christian Church founded by St. Andrew the Apostle. (Photo Credit: N. Manginas) "During my recent meeting with Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, we discussed the Turkish government's continued interference with the affairs of the Orthodox Christian Church," said King. "Turkey has placed severe restrictions on the Ecumenical Patriarchate, and many believe that these restrictions threaten the very existence of a Church that was founded 2,000 years ago by the Apostle Andrew. The President should make it clear to Turkish leaders that he is concerned with Turkey's continued interference with the affairs of this Church because the United States is committed to religious freedom both at home and abroad." The letter to President Obama is being circulated by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Rep. Howard Berman (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Among its requests are that the President encourage Turkey to return confiscated Church property, to reopen the Halki Theological School, and to cease its interference in the selection of Church leaders. To date, the letter has been signed by 271 Members of Congress. Additional photos of Congressman King's meeting with Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew are available on the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople's website by clicking here. 0 ###
10.06.2011	7 Congressman King leads House delegation in "full support" of state's appeal Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announces that he has gathered the support of Iowa's House delegation on a letter to Administrator Craig Fugate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in support of the state's appeal of FEMA's decision to deny access to Individual Assistance programs for flood victims in six Iowa counties. Congressman King's delegation letter expresses "full support" for the state's appeal, and it asks that FEMA reconsider and grant the state's request for Individual Assistance resources. Governor Terry Branstad officially submitted the state's appeal to FEMA earlier today. "FEMA's decision to deny Iowans access to Individual Assistance resources needs to be reversed, and I fully support Gov. Branstad's appeal," said King. "The state has provided FEMA with information showing that 975 homes were damaged by Missouri River flooding in the six counties that sought Individual Assistance resources, and this figure is nearly three times higher than previous estimates. Now that FEMA has a better understanding of the flood's impact, it should do the right thing by reconsidering and granting the state's request so that these important Individual Assistance resources can benefit Iowans." 0 ### 0 Click here to view the letter send to the FEMA Administrator.
10.04.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announces that he has been named a "Taxpayer Hero" by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW), a taxpayer watchdog group dedicated to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government. King earned the "Taxpayer Hero" designation by compiling a score of 93% in the CCAGW's review of votes cast in the second session of the 111th Congress. King's 93% is the highest score received by a member of Iowa's Congressional delegation in the CCAGW's 2010 Congressional Ratings report. "I appreciate being named a 'Taxpayer Hero' by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste because CCAGW shares my commitment to cutting spending, lowering taxes, and reducing the national debt," said King. "I encourage every American to review CCAGW's findings to determine where their respective Members of Congress stand on these important issues." To determine which Members of Congress receive this designation, CCAGW conducts an annual review of the voting records of every Member of Congress to credit Members who consistently vote to protect the fiscal interests of taxpayers. More information on the CCAGW annual rating of Congress is available here. 0 ###
10.04.2011	Congressman King votes against continuing resolution that irresponsibly exceeds the House passed budget by $24 billion Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following video statement discussing his vote against the continuing resolution that was passed by the House of Representatives this afternoon. "The continuing resolution breaks the Ryan budget by $24 billion...We have to get our spending under control here in this United States Congress, and if I go along with this spending, never again in the rest of this Congress can I take a stand on other spending. I've said I will stick to the Ryan budget or less, I won't spend more. When they bring an appropriations bill that spends more, I'll vote no." 0 ###
09.22.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after being honored by the Competitive Enterprise Institute (CEI) for having compiled a 100% Pro-Worker Score on the CEI Congressional Labor Scorecard. The Competitive Enterprise Institute is a non-profit public policy organization dedicated to advancing the principles of limited government, free enterprise, and individual liberty. "We need our economy to start producing jobs again, and Congress can promote job creation by reducing the regulatory burden placed on job creators," said King. "CEI understands this, and I am honored to receive their award for compiling a 100% pro-worker voting record. I will continue to work to repeal job-killing regulations, like those established under the Davis-Bacon Act, so that the government will get out of the way of workers looking for jobs." The CEI Labor Scorecard is kept in real time, and this year's scorecard grades Members of Congress on pro-worker votes cast during the 112th Congress. Included in the CEI scorecard this year was a key vote on an amendment introduced by Congressman King that sought to open up job opportunities in the construction industry by prohibiting the use of federal funds for the administration of Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements. Members of Congress who voted in favor of Congressman King's Davis-Bacon amendment received points on the CEI scorecard for casting a pro-worker vote. Congressman King's A+ rating, as well as the ratings of every Member of Congress, can be viewed at CEI's labor scorecard website by clicking here. 0 ###
09.22.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following video statement discussing his vote against the continuing resolution that was considered by the House of Representatives last night. "The majority of Republicans who voted 'No' on the continuing resolution voted 'No' because it spends too much money...we will be able to provide those $3.65 billion in disaster funding that was part of the bill, but we're going to find the offsets. If you need to find some money for something that is important, and that is disaster relief, you need to take it from the fund of something that is less important." 0 ###
09.21.2011	6 Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after meeting today with Paul Trombino, Director of the Iowa Department of Transportation. During their meeting, Director Trombino briefed Congressman King on the Department's plans to soon reopen stretches of I-29 and to award an emergency contract to reconstruct 3 miles of I-680 that have been destroyed by the flooding that has affected western Iowa this summer. According to Trombino, the DoT hopes to have I-680 open this fall. Congressman Steve King (at left) and Director Paul Trombino of the Iowa Department of Transportation meet to discuss the DoT's plan to repair and reopen flooded roadways. "After meeting with Director Trombino today, I am encouraged by the plan that the Iowa Department of Transportation has for repairing and reopening roadways that have been closed due to this summer's flood," said King. "Director Trombino presented a creative proposal that will result in the reopening of flood damaged roads much sooner than expected. I appreciate the work that Director Trombino is doing, and I am optimistic about his plans to reopen I-29 and to reconstruct I-680." 0 ###
09.19.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after President Obama proposed a deficit reduction plan that seeks to increase taxes by at least $1.5 trillion dollars. The president called for significant new tax increases during a Rose Garden speech this morning. "The president's latest proposal to increase taxes by $1.5 trillion on America's job creators has very little chance of becoming law, and he has punted on the debt and deficit issues," said King. "Americans deserve a real strategy to tackle our debt crisis and it appears we will not get one until the clock runs out on the Obama administration." 0 ###
09.16.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), a member of the 10th Amendment Task Force, today issued the following statement commemorating the 224th anniversary of the signing of the United States Constitution by delegates to the Constitutional Convention. Constitution Day occurs on September 17th, and it marks the anniversary of the day in 1787 that 39 delegates to the Constitutional Convention signed the document that both established the framework of American government and also secured the basic, God-given rights that Americans enjoy. "It is an amazing testament to the brilliance of the Founding Fathers that the United States Constitution has only been successfully amended 27 times in 224 years," said King. "As Americans commemorate Constitution Day this year, they are doing so at a time when our nation's $14.7 trillion debt has made the necessity of adding a 28th Amendment to the Constitution, a strong Balanced Budget Amendment, exceedingly clear. If we are to get our fiscal house in order, Congress must send a Balanced Budget Amendment to the states for ratification that: requires a two-thirds vote before spending can exceed the cap of 18% of GDP; requires a two-thirds supermajority vote to increase taxes; requires a three-fifths vote to raise the debt limit; and requires a three-fifths supermajority vote to waive the requirement for a balanced budget. I support adding a Balanced Budget Amendment to the 'supreme Law of the Land', and I encourage Americans to ask Congress to make the passage of a strong Balanced Budget Amendment a top priority." 0 ###
09.15.2011	7 Congressman King discusses the Farm Bill, Free-trade agreements, and burdensome E.P.A. regulations with Iowa Pork Producers Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), a member of the House Agriculture Committee, today released the following photo and statement following his meeting yesterday afternoon with members of the Iowa Pork Producers Association. The Iowa Pork Producers are in Washington, D.C. to participate in the National Pork Producers Council's Legislative Action Conference. During their meeting, Congressman King and the Iowa Pork Producers discussed the importance of passing pending free-trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea; the upcoming reauthorization of the Farm Bill; and the burdens that E.P.A. regulations are placing on agriculture. Congressman Steve King (front, center) stands with members of the Iowa Pork Producers Association outside his Washington office. From left to right: Jon Weber (Dysart, IA), Patty Calderwood (Traer, IA), Howard Hill (Nevada, IA), Tom Block (Sibley, IA), Cody McKinley (Ankeny, IA); Al Muhlenbruck (Oakville, IA), Congressman Steve King, Keith Aljets (Williamsburg, IA),Aaron Juergens (Carroll, IA), Lori Jorgenson (Algona, IA), Craig Rowles (Carroll, IA), Sam Carney (Adair, IA), Chris Van Beek (Inwood, IA) and Kevin Perrinjaquet (Edgewood, IA) "It is always a pleasure to meet with members of the Iowa Pork Producers Association to discuss their legislative agenda," said King. "Agricultural production is a key component of Iowa's economy, and I agree with the Iowa Pork Producers that agriculture in Iowa will be strengthened if the pending free-trade agreements with Colombia, South Korea and Panama become law, and if the regulatory burdens of the E.P.A. are reduced." 0 ###
09.15.2011	18 Bipartisan legislation introduced with strong support of Members of Congress representing Missouri River states Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he has introduced legislation to prevent future incidents of severe downstream flooding along the Missouri River. King's legislation, H.R. 2942, requires the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to revise the Missouri River Master Manual to increase the total amount of storage space within the Missouri River Reservoir System that is allocated for flood control. Congressman King's legislation is introduced today with strong, bipartisan support from Members of Congress representing Missouri River states. Original cosponsors of the King bill include: Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD), Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO), Rep. Emanuel Cleaver II (D-MO), Rep. Vicki Hartzler (R-MO), Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO), Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE), Rep. Tom Latham (R-IA), Rep. Leonard Boswell (D-IA), Rep. Bruce Braley (D-IA) and Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-IA). Statements from Congressman King and bill co-sponsors follow: "The severity of this year's flood shows that the Corps of Engineers' existing flood control model needs to be changed," said Congressman King. "My legislation requires the Corps to increase the amount of storage space in the reservoir system so that it will be better able to prevent serious downstream flooding from occurring in the future. The bill is a common sense solution to a serious problem, and I am grateful for the strong support it has received from my colleagues in Missouri River states." "The goal of the Missouri River Flood Working Group is to make flood control and prevention a number one priority so an event like this does not happen again. This legislation is a good first step to controlling the river by adding space to the flood control zone in our reservoir system" said Rep. Kristi Noem. "I firmly believe that we, along with the Army Corps, can find a solution to prevent another flood of this magnitude. This proposal has not only received bipartisan support, but support from the upper and lower Missouri River Basin." "This bill would take into account the new data points caused by this past year's flood," said Rep. Sam Graves. "This will ensure that we are prepared for a new worst-case scenario. As communities, roads and farmland all along the Missouri River begin to dry out, now is the time to start making common sense changes to the way the River is managed. This is a good first-step." "The communities, lives and livelihoods that are affected by the Missouri River must stand head-and-shoulders above all other priorities in the Corps of Engineers' management of the river," Congressman Latham said. "Disaster preparedness, mitigation and flood control policies that protect the people and communities along the river rightfully take center stage in this bill, which will allow the voices of Iowans to be heard by the federal government and agencies in this continued discussion." "Having seen the flooding first hand and having brought Chairman Mica to witness its damages, we must take action to prevent similar catastrophes in the Missouri River Valley," said Rep. Terry. "Flood control must become a significant priority." "This summer, tens of thousands of people from Montana to Missouri were affected by record-breaking floods," said Congressman Cleaver. "This bipartisan bill, which I am proud to cosponsor, would help change the way we prepare for floods, bringing us out of the nineteenth century and into the twenty-first. While we cannot anticipate each and every natural disaster, we must enhance and update the preventative measures and management plans we have in place today." "I'm pleased the Iowa Delegation has again come together to work on flood recovery in a bipartisan fashion like we have done since the Floods of 2008 hit much of Eastern Iowa. I applaud Congressman King for introducing this legislation, which will improve the management of flood control infrastructure on the Missouri River," said Congressman Loebsack. "Iowa is now recovering from a number of severe flood incidents over the past few years, which is why I continue to push for hearings in Congress on flooding and the Corps of Engineers management of flood control structures. In addition, we also need to pass legislation to create a National Flood Center that comprehensively addresses flood prediction, prevention, response and recovery." "I'm proud to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, and both sides of the river, to prevent future flooding on the Missouri River," said Rep. Braley. "It's time for the Army Corps of Engineers to update its flood prevention systems, and this bill can make that happen. Congress should provide the resources to clean-up, repair and rebuild after these devastating floods, and that's what I'm fighting for." "I am pleased that my colleagues from both sides of the aisle and both ends of the basin are willing to work together to address this critical issue," Rep. Luetkemeyer said. "This is a step forward for Missouri and the entire Missouri River basin. I will continue to work on behalf of our river communities to ensure they are protected against the kind of flooding experienced this year." "The floods that have hit Iowa over the last few years have had devastating impacts on our state, from the crops in the field to infrastructure," Congressman Boswell said. "Politics aside, when it comes to helping affected communities and flood victims in Iowa, our delegation comes together to do what is necessary and what is needed. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Corps of Engineers, I will do whatever I can to help move this bill forward. The flooding that we have witnessed is proof that the current flood control storage is inadequate, and we must work together to ensure that we reduce the damage caused when the Missouri River floods." 0 ### 0 Click here to read the legislation or to view our FAQ's sheet.
09.14.2011	8 Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement after attending the first meeting of the bi-partisan U.S. House Missouri River Flood Working Group. During the meeting, Congressman King's legislation requiring the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to revise the Missouri River Master Manual to increase the total amount of storage space within the Missouri River Reservoir System that is allocated for flood control was the top item on the agenda for discussion. King is a member of this working group. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) gathers support for his flood control legislation during the first meeting of the U.S. House Missouri River Flood Working Group founded by Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD) (seated, at right). "I was pleased to attend the first meeting of the Missouri River Flood Working Group, and I appreciate the support that my Missouri River flood control bill is receiving from my colleagues," said King. "My legislation is designed to prevent future incidents of serious downstream flooding by requiring the Army Corps of Engineers to revise its Master Manual to ensure it has the flood control storage space needed to account for a flood of the size and scope experienced this year. It is a common sense proposal, and its prospects of becoming law are strengthened by the support it is receiving from my colleagues in Missouri River states." Congressman King will be formally introducing his Missouri River flood control legislation tomorrow. The bill's initial cosponsors will include: Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD), Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO), Rep. Vicki Hartzler (R-MO), Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO), Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE), Rep. Tom Latham (R-IA), Rep. Leonard Boswell (D-IA), Rep. Bruce Braley (D-IA) and Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-IA). Of these cosponsors, Reps. Noem, Graves, Hartzler, Leutkemyer, Fortenberry, Terry, and Latham serve on the working group with Congressman King. The U.S. House Missouri River Flood Working Group was formed by Rep. Noem (R-SD) in the wake of this year's historic Missouri River flooding. It is tasked with examining the factors that led to this year's severe flooding so that they can be addressed in order to prevent devastating flood events from occurring in the future. 0 ###
09.10.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following video statement regarding the tenth anniversary of the tragedies of September 11, 2001: "We are a stronger people as a nation. We're stronger, we're pulled together, we understand the value of freedom and the safety that we have within this country. We pay more attention than we did before to the values that came to us through the Declaration, through the Constitution, from our Founding Fathers. We recognize that our rights come from God and they must be defended. And they are precious and a dollar value cannot be put upon these rights of liberty and freedom that we have. It is our job to protect, preserve and defend them for the succeeding generations, just as those who have gone before us have protected and preserved our rights and our liberty for us." 0 ###
09.09.2011	Postmaster General tells King: Despite "Lousy Job on Public Relations," Sioux City Processing Center Will Close Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King released the following statement today after holding an in person meeting with Patrick Donahoe, the Postmaster General of the United States Postal Service, in King's Washington, D.C. office yesterday. The Postmaster General requested the meeting with King to discuss the Postal Service's plans to move Sioux City's mail processing operations to Sioux Falls, South Dakota. During the meeting, Donahoe admitted that the Postal Service had done a "lousy job on public relations" in Sioux City, and he told King that the quickly deteriorating financial position of the Postal Service leaves him no choice but to close Sioux City's mail processing center. "The first point of agreement I found in my meeting with the Postmaster General was when he admitted that the Postal Service had done a 'lousy job on public relations' in Sioux City," said King. "For months I have been working with Senators Grassley and Harkin to get the Postal Service to release the business model report to the community detailing the rationale for eliminating the USPS processing center. The Postmaster General's promise to us was not kept. Time and time again we were met with stall tactics and delays. Lousy public relations aside, the Postal Service is facing epic financial challenges which require sweeping and dramatic changes. Even though Sioux City's processing center is one of the most efficient in the country, and the community is prepared to produce a proposal that would have a chance to keep the doors open and its employees working, at this point, I hold out no hope that the Sioux City processing center will remain open." In early August, King and Senators Grassley and Harkin met with Donahoe and were promised that Sioux City's leaders would have an opportunity to review the Postal Service's rationale for the planned move and would have an opportunity to offer a counter proposal. Nearly a month later, after weeks of constant prodding from the delegation, postal service officials traveled to Sioux City and discussed the details of the proposal with city and community leaders in a closed door meeting. Following that meeting, King, Grassley, and Harkin wrote to Donahoe to ask that the final implementation of the consolidation be delayed to give the city additional time to submit a competitive counter proposal. Yesterday, Donahoe told King that while the Postal Service had "done a lousy job on public relations" the business position of the Postal Service has declined so severely and so rapidly in the months since the Sioux City consolidation was first proposed that the city "could offer 100 proposals and we won't be able to stay there." "I am broke. I have no money," Donahoe told King. The Postal Service's dire financial situation will not only force the closure of the Sioux City processing center by the end of the month, Donahoe said it has also led the Postal Service to begin an effort to reduce its mail processing operations nationwide over the next year from the more than 500 centers that it currently operates to 175. According to the Postmaster General, this severe downsizing of its processing network will be part of a move by the Postal Service to slash $20 Billion from its bottom line over the next three years in an effort to return the organization to solvency. 0 ###
09.09.2011	As another of President Obama's illegal alien relatives gets preferential treatment, King renews call for Congressional hearings Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement renewing his calls for Congressional hearings into President Obama's recently announced program that grants Executive Amnesty to illegal aliens. King's statement is issued in the wake of media reports that President Obama's drunken, illegal alien uncle, Omar Onyango Obama, has been released from the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Prior to his release, "Uncle Omar" Obama was being held subject to a 1992 deportation order, which was uncovered following "Uncle Omar's" recent arrest on suspicion of driving under the influence, driving to endanger, and failing to use a turn signal. According to the Boston Globe, Federal immigration officials are only willing to confirm that Obama is "not in custody", and they will not reveal whether he was released on bond, whether they are aware of his whereabouts, or whether they are still seeking his deportation. "President Obama's Uncle, Uncle Omar, has been picked up for drunken driving with almost twice the blood alcohol level that is allowable by law in Massachusetts. It'll be the third time that he's been interdicted with regard to being an illegal immigrant. He's twice before been adjudicated for deportation, this time Immigrations and Customs Enforcement just released him, after they had him in custody, as if he's not going to be a danger to our society." "The special privileges for the president's family who are illegal immigrants, this is the second one. His Aunt Zeituni was also picked up as an illegal immigrant and finally granted an asylum by ICE, by the Department of Homeland Security. We need to have Congressional hearings into favorite treatment of the White House. This executive amnesty that the President has ordered, that they're not going to enforce immigration law, and who pops up first? Drunken Uncle Omar. I want to subpoena drunken Uncle Omar to come into the House Judiciary Committee along with his attorney, who's the same attorney that President Obama's Aunt Zeituni had that got her asylum." "We must enforce our immigration laws and we must enforce those immigration laws equally across all society. Justice has got to be blind, it can't play favorites, and I want to have hearings in the House Judiciary Committee over drunken Uncle Omar." On August 29, Congressman King suggested that drunken "Uncle Omar" Obama could be the first beneficiary of the President's new Executive Amnesty for Illegal Aliens program. With today's revelations, it appears that Congressman King's suspicions were correct, and that the Obama administration may have used the new rules to grant amnesty to the President's uncle. It is also worth noting that this is not the first time an illegal alien relative of President Obama has appeared to benefit from preferential treatment. Last year, President Obama's illegal alien aunt, Zeituni Onyango, had a deportation order overturned despite the fact that her previous request for asylum, made prior to her nephew becoming President, had already been rejected. 0 ###
09.08.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) releases the following video statement providing his reaction to President Obama's speech to the Joint Session of Congress: "The President has given his jobs proposal speech tonight, and put a series of things into the speech, none of which had a price tag on that I could see. And he asked us to figure out how to pay for all of that in the Super Committee that will be meeting in October. I think the President has made a lot of proposals; I'd like to hear him make a proposal on how he is going to do what he said he was going to do which is reduce our deficit and pay down our national debt." "I think given the proposal of spending some number that approaches another trillion dollars makes it impossible to pay down our national debt. We first have to balance the budget. The best thing he could have done would be call for a balanced budget amendment, instead he called for a lot more spending and he called for us to figure out how to pay for it. And he told us this is all paid for; well it is if we figure out how to do that here in Congress." 0 ###
09.07.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement describing how President Obama could deliver an economic speech to tomorrow's Joint Session of Congress that would be welcomed by the financial markets. "The Dow Jones would jump 1,000 points in a single day if President Obama would give the following speech to the Joint Session of Congress," said King. "Obama needs to tell Congress that ObamaNomics was a mistake, and that borrowing and spending 'We the People' into a debt equal to our entire national GDP was a colossal failure. He should announce that he will sign legislation repealing ObamaCare. He needs to reverse course and embrace the Cut, Cap and Balance bill, and he should ask Congress to pass a Balanced Budget Amendment immediately. The President also needs to cut the cost of overregulation in half and to open up drilling. Finally, he has to believe in these proposals, and we would have to believe him." "If the President's speech goes in the opposite direction by embracing Keynesian economics, he will be digging us even deeper into a hole of record unemployment and stagnant growth. After two and a half years of the President's failed economic policies, we know what to expect from ObamaNomics and, I believe, we know what the negative results will be." 0 ###
08.29.2011	Potential for preferential treatment provides additional justification for Congressional hearings on President's Executive Amnesty for Illegal Aliens Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement in response to news reports that President Obama's "Uncle Omar", Omar Onyango Obama, has been arrested and detained as an illegal immigrant subject to an outstanding deportation order to Kenya. "Uncle Omar" Obama was detained after local police discovered the deportation order following Obama's August 24 arrest in Massachusetts for nearly hitting a police car while driving under the influence of alcohol. "On August 18, the Obama administration announced that it would be ignoring Congressionally mandated deportations, and now it appears one of the first beneficiaries of this decision could be the President's recently arrested uncle, Omar Onyango Obama," said King. "With an existing deportation order, it is not surprising to learn that 'Uncle Omar' Obama told police officers that his first call would be to his nephew in the White House. Now that the executive branch has gotten into the business of undermining the Rule of Law, there is little question that anyone who is connected to the President, politically or otherwise, will have an advantage, just like President Obama's Aunt Zeituni Onyango, when it comes time to determine who is granted amnesty. This raises a troubling list of questions about the potential for preferential treatment, and is yet another reason Congress should hold hearings to expose Obama's executive amnesty program." Last year, another of President Obama's relatives, Aunt Zeituni Onyango, was granted asylum after an immigration judge overruled an earlier judicial determination ordering her deportation to Kenya. At that time, questions were raised as to whether the reversal was politically motivated due to Ms. Obama's close connection to her nephew, President Barack Obama. Neither Ms. Onyango, nor her attorney, Ms. Margaret Wong, were willing to testify publicly about her case when the House Judiciary Committee held hearings into the Executive Office for Immigration Review last year. It has been reported that Ms. Wong has now been retained by Mr. Onyango Obama to represent him in his deportation battle. Like Aunt Zeituni Onyango, Uncle Omar is referenced in President Obama's memoir, Dreams from My Father. Congressman King has called for Congressional hearings into the Obama administration's attempt to circumvent the Rule of Law by granting executive amnesty to illegal aliens. With today's statement, Congressman King reaffirms the need for hearings to be held when Congress returns to session. 0 ###
08.26.2011	8 Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) announce that they have formally requested that the United States Postal Service delay the implementation of its plan to consolidate mail processing operations in Sioux City with a mail processing center in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. The request was made in a letter sent by the three Members of Congress to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe this afternoon. The letter notes that a delay in the final implementation of the consolidation proposal is warranted and necessary because the USPS has spent weeks stalling the release of information sought by Sioux City officials attempting to prepare a counter proposal in advance of the September 16 deadline. "It is clear that the USPS is attempting to 'run out the clock' on Sioux City's efforts to develop a counter proposal to the USPS consolidation plan, and they should not be given a free pass to do so," said King. "The Postmaster General promised me, Senator Grassley and Senator Harkin that Sioux City would be given sufficient time to analyze the AMP data and to develop a counter proposal, but for three weeks the USPS undermined this commitment by stalling the data's release. The request for a delay is reasonable, and the USPS should grant it to honor the Postmaster General's promises to the community." "Up to this point, the Postal Service's response to questions and concerns from the congressional delegation and Sioux City community leaders has been disappointing," said Grassley. "Yesterday's meeting, for the first time, provided some information to the community, but it's too little, too late, and puts Sioux City in a difficult situation. Sioux City deserves better treatment than what it's gotten from the Postal Service. The least the Postal Service can do is provide additional time for the community to adequately respond." "After yesterday's meeting, it is abundantly clear that USPS is slow-walking this process," said Harkin. "The only reasonable option at this point is to try to delay any closure until sufficient information is available from all relevant groups." 0 ### 0 Click here to view a copy of the letter.
08.25.2011	King to Host Clay County Town Hall Meeting on Tuesday, August 30 Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a town hall meeting in Spencer on Tuesday, August 30. The town hall meeting, which is open to the public and to the press, will be held in the Spencer City Hall Council Chambers. The event will run from 3:00-4:30 PM CST. "I am looking forward to hosting a town hall meeting in Spencer on August 30," said King. "Town hall meetings are important because they allow me to discuss the issues under consideration in Washington directly with the people I have the privilege of representing. I encourage everyone to attend my upcoming town hall meeting in Spencer." 0 Clay County Town Hall Meeting Schedule for Tuesday, August 30 Event is open to the public and to the press Event: Clay County Town Hall Meeting w/ Congressman Steve King Date: Tuesday, August 30, 2011 Time: 3:00-4:30 PM (CST) Location: Spencer City Hall Council Chambers 418 2nd Avenue West Spencer, IA 51301 0 ### Click here to RSVP on Facebook.
08.25.2011	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement regarding the meeting held in Sioux City between city and community leaders and representatives of the United States Postal Service regarding the Postal Service's plans to move Sioux City's mail processing operations to Sioux Falls. "Today, city and community leaders in Sioux City were finally given an opportunity to ask questions about the proposed move of Sioux City's mail processing operations and to discuss the rationale used to justify it – but only after the Postal Service withdrew its original request that participants agree to keep the details of the meeting secret. And although meeting participants were able to view the data used by the Postal Service to support the move, that data was not released to the community as the Postmaster General had promised. The Postal Service did share some information about the kind of proposal needed to keep Sioux City's processing plant open. However, city and community leaders should have been given this information months ago. I will continue to work with Sioux City's leaders to develop a competitive counter proposal, but it is clear that the Postal Service's continued stall tactics throughout this process were designed to ensure that there would be little time remaining to do so." 0 ###
08.24.2011	Congressman King: "Our laws are to be enforced faithfully, not ignored or defied by the very people whose job it is to enforce them." Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), released the following statement calling for Congressional hearings into the Obama administration's action to grant executive amnesty to illegal aliens. On August 18, Secretary Janet Napolitano announced that the Department of Homeland Security was creating an interagency working group charged with a case-by-case review of all illegal aliens currently in removal proceedings. By doing so, the Obama administration is seeking to assume the authority to ignore Congressionally mandated deportations. "The President of the United States and all his federal appointees take an oath to the Constitution that requires that they 'take care that the laws be faithfully executed,'" said King. "Our laws are to be enforced faithfully, not ignored or defied by the very people whose job it is to enforce them. I am calling for Congressional hearings on the Obama administration to put the President and all his cabinet members on notice that neither Congress nor the American people will tolerate such contempt for their own oath, the Constitution and the Rule of Law." "This is the latest example of the Obama administration acting as if it does not have to enforce laws if it finds those laws to be inconvenient. I will be insisting on Congressional hearings so that President Obama's appointees will have to answer questions under oath about their use of executive amnesty to reward immigration lawbreakers with the objective of their crime." 0 ###
08.22.2011	Site redevelopment could create up to 200 jobs Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announces that the Economic Development Administration has approved a $2 million grant for the City of Sioux City to redevelop the site of the former John Morrell processing facility. King sent a letter in support of Sioux City's grant application to the Economic Development Administration on March 10, 2011. Estimates provided with the grant suggest that the project could create up to 200 jobs. "I am pleased to announce that Sioux City has been awarded a $2 million grant from the Economic Development Administration for the redevelopment of the former John Morrell processing site," said King. "Redeveloping the site will allow Global Foods Processing, Inc. to expand its current Sioux City operations, and this could lead to as many as 200 new jobs. Recovering the jobs that were lost when the John Morrell plant closed is important for Sioux City's economy, and I will continue to work with state and local leaders on projects that encourage job creation." 0 ### 0 A copy of the official grant announcement can be viewed here.
08.19.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a town hall meeting in Denison on Wednesday, August 24. The town hall meeting, which is open to the public and to the press, will be held at Cronks Restaurant located on 812 4th Avenue S. The event will run from 2:15-3:30 PM CST. "I am looking forward to hosting a town hall meeting in Denison," said King. "Town hall meetings are important because they allow me to hear directly from my constituents about the issues that are under consideration in Washington. I invite everyone to attend the Denison town hall meeting on Wednesday, August 24." 0 Crawford County Town Hall Meeting Schedule for Wednesday, August 24 Event is open to the public and to the press 0 Event: Crawford County Town Hall Meeting w/ Congressman Steve King Date: Wednesday, August 24, 2011 Time: 2:15-3:30 PM (CST) Location: Cronks Restaurant 812 4th Ave. S Denison, IA 0 ###
08.19.2011	25 Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released a series of emails between congressional staff and USPS officials which document the weeks' worth of effort that has gone into the work of King, Grassley, and Harkin to hold the USPS to the promises made by the Postmaster General earlier this month to release important data to city and community leaders regarding the decision to move Sioux City's mail processing operations to Sioux Falls, SD. On August 1, the Postmaster General personally promised Congressman King, Senator Grassley and Senator Harkin that he would provide Sioux City's community and business leaders with the un-redacted data used to justify the USPS decision to move Sioux City's mail processing operations to Sioux Falls. Despite repeated requests since the August 1st meeting for the information from Congressman King's office, the Postal Service has refused to follow through on the Postmaster General's commitment. This afternoon, the USPS released a heavily redacted version of the AMP study instead of the un-redacted version that was promised. A letter accompanying the redacted report suggested that an un-redacted version would only be made available to community and business leaders during a "closed" meeting with USPS officials to be held in Sioux City next week. This falls short of the Postmaster General's promise to release the un-redacted data and backup information to Sioux City's business and community leaders in advance of a meeting with Postal Service officials in Sioux City. It had been agreed the release of this information in advance of such a meeting would give the leaders adequate time to review the data and provide informed feedback and a detailed counter proposal to the USPS. "I have repeatedly requested the release of the un-redacted Sioux City AMP report in accordance with the Postmaster General's commitment to me, Senator Grassley, Senator Harkin and the people of Sioux City, and the USPS continues to stonewall this request," said King. "Today, the USPS continued their stalling tactics by releasing a copy of the AMP report that is heavily redacted, already available, and of little use to those in the Sioux City community who are trying to develop a counter proposal to the USPS consolidation plan. Releasing a redacted report is not what the Postmaster General promised. He must keep his word to the Sioux City community." During the August 1 meeting, the Postmaster General promised Congressman King, Senator Grassley and Senator Harkin that an un-redacted version of the Sioux City AMP report would be provided, and that the community would have sufficient time to put a counter-proposal together. After nearly three weeks of needless delay, and the release of a redacted report, it is clear that the USPS is attempting to run out the clock between now and the October 1 deadline it has set for completing the move of processing operations to Sioux Falls. Concerned members of the public should contact the following USPS officials to request that the Postmaster General keep his promise to release the un-redacted Sioux City AMP report: 0 USPS Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe (p) 202-268-2000 0 Marie Therese Dominguez USPS Vice President of Government Relations & Public Policy (p) 202-268-2506 0 Talaya S. Simpson USPS Government Relations Representative (p) 202-268-7839 0 Sandra Calos USPS Government Relations Representative (p) 202-268-7505 0 In addition to the names and numbers of individuals at the USPS, Congressman King is also releasing the following e-mail exchange to illustrate the degree to which the USPS is frustrating efforts to gain access to the un-redacted Sioux City AMP report. 0 ### 0 Click here to view a copy of the email exchange with Congressman King's Office.
08.19.2011	The Postmaster General promised an un-redacted version of the Sioux City AMP Closing report to Congressman Steve King, Senator Chuck Grassley and Senator Tom Harkin. After three weeks of delay, Congressman Steve King is urging members of the public to contact the USPS and demand that the Postmaster General keep his word by releasing the un-redacted report. Name and Contact Information for USPS Officials. 0 Patrick Donahoe USPS Postmaster General (p) 202-268-2000 0 Marie Dominguez USPS Vice President of Government Relations (p) 202-268-2506 0 Talaya Simpson USPS Government Relations Representative (p) 202-268-7839 0 Sandra Calos USPS Government Relations Representative (p) 202-268-7505 0 ###
08.18.2011	13 Legislation will offer greater flood protection by requiring the USACoE to increase the storage capacity in the Missouri River reservoir system that is allocated for flood control. Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be introducing legislation that requires the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACoE) to revise its Missouri River Water Control Master Manual. King made his announcement this afternoon, after spending the morning inspecting flood damage by boat on a stretch of the Missouri River between Council Bluffs and Missouri Valley. Representatives of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and of the Governor's office joined Congressman King this morning to view the ongoing flooding. Congressman Steve King (right) and a representative of the Iowa Department of Natural Resources prepare to embark on a boat tour to examine damage caused by Missouri River flooding "This year's flood is much larger than the historic flood of 1881, which serves as the basis for the Army Corps of Engineers' flood control storage space calculations, and the Master Manual needs to be adjusted to reflect this fact," said King. "As the water has poured out of Gavins Point, it has exceeded the Corps ability to manage it under existing models, and Iowans are suffering the terrible consequences. My legislation will require the Corps to revise the Master Manual to account for flooding of the size and scale experienced this year. When the flood waters recede, we cannot be lulled into a false sense of security. The Corps needs to make this year's flooding their new baseline in the Master Manual so that future flood management efforts will do a much better job of protecting the homes, property and businesses of residents who live in close proximity to the Missouri River." King's legislation will require the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to recalculate the total amount of flood control storage space within the Missouri River Reservoir System so that the amount of space is sufficient to control the largest flood experienced in the System. Currently, the USACoE Master Manual largely bases its calculations of flood control storage space within the reservoir system on the amount of storage needed to control the flood of 1881 - a calculation that has shown itself to be insufficient to manage this year's ongoing flood. King's bill will also require the Army Corps of Engineers to adjust the Missouri River Reservoir System's two flood control storage zones prior to the runoff season each year to ensure that there is adequate space in the zones to prevent serious downstream flooding. Congressman King has already secured the support of Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO) on this legislation and King will be working in the coming weeks to secure the support of additional members of the Missouri River delegation prior to introducing the bill when Congress returns. 0 ### 0 Click here to view a draft of Congressman King's Legislation. To view more photos of Congressman King's trip please click here to visit his Flickr account.
08.17.2011	6 Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announces that he has sent a letter signed by Iowa's entire House delegation to FEMA Administrator William Fugate in support of Governor Branstad's request for additional time to appeal FEMA's denial of Individual Assistance Program eligibility to five counties in Iowa. King's letter to Fugate states that an extension of the deadline to appeal to November 15 is necessary because a complete damage assessment cannot be conducted until the flood waters have receded. Current projections suggest that Missouri River flood waters will not begin to recede until late October or early November. "When FEMA ruled that Individual Assistance Programs would not be available to residents of Fremont, Harrison, Monona, Pottawattamie and Woodbury counties, FEMA relied on an incomplete assessment of the flood damage in these counties," said King. "A more complete assessment of the flood damage will emerge only after safe access to damaged homes is restored, and this is not expected to happen until the flood waters recede in late October or early November. The state is asking for additional time to compile an accurate damage assessment that can be reviewed during the appeal, and I am encouraging FEMA to grant the state's request." 0 ### 0 Click here to read Congressman King's delegation letter.
08.16.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a town hall meeting in Orange City on Friday, August 19. The town hall meeting, which is open to the public and to the press, will be held in the Community Room of Northwestern Bank. The event will run from 1:30-3:00 PM CST. "I am looking forward to hosting a town hall meeting in Orange City on August 19," said King. "Town hall meetings are important because they allow me to discuss the issues under consideration in Washington directly with the people I have the privilege of representing. I encourage everyone to attend my upcoming town hall meeting in Orange City." 0 Sioux County Town Hall Meeting Schedule for Friday, August 19 Event is open to the public and to the press 0 Event: Sioux County Town Hall Meeting w/ Congressman Steve King Date: Friday, August 19, 2011 Time: 1:30-3:00 PM (CST) Location: Northwestern Bank Community Room 122 Central Avenue NW Orange City, IA 0 For more information, please contact John Kennedy at 202-226-2384. 0 ###
08.10.2011	8 Invitation sent to the White House this afternoon Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announces that he and four House colleagues have extended a second invitation to President Barack Obama to visit flood ravaged communities along the Missouri River. President Obama declined a similar invitation extended to him by these Members of Congress on June 24th. "I encourage the President to accept my latest invitation to visit western Iowa in order to view the impact of Missouri River flooding for himself," said King. "FEMA recently denied the state's request for Individual Assistance, and I believe this decision was incorrectly made because the agency does not have a full understanding of the extent of the damage being done to Iowa's homeowners, renters and businesses. If the President were to come to western Iowa to view the extensive flood damage for himself, I believe that he would return to Washington in a better position to oversee FEMA's response." A letter extending an invitation to the President was sent to the White House this afternoon. The letter notes that President Obama will be traveling throughout several Midwestern states Aug. 15-17, and it requests that the President make time in his schedule to visit the communities along the Missouri River that have been hardest-hit by the flooding. Joining Congressman King on the letter are Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO), Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), and Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE). 0 ### 0 Click here to view a copy of Congressman King's letter.
08.05.2011	Congressman King seeks reversal of FEMA decision that denies Federal Individual Assistance Programs to five flooded Iowa counties Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) issues the following statement in support of Governor Terry Branstad's vow to appeal the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) decision to deny Iowa's request for activation of the Federal Individual Assistance Program for Fremont, Harrison, Monona, Pottawattamie and Woodbury counties. "Governor Branstad is doing the right thing by appealing FEMA's decision, and I will work closely with him in an effort to get FEMA's decision reversed," said King. "FEMA's decision to deny the State's request for access to Individual Assistance Programs is based on incomplete data that does not fully reflect the scope of the flood damage being done to Iowa's homeowners, renters and businesses. In fact, much of the residential damage can only be seen by boat and it is unaccounted for in the aerial survey data FEMA used to make their decision. An appeal will allow FEMA to gain a better understanding of the scale of the damage Iowans are sustaining, and it will give the agency the opportunity to quickly reverse a disappointing decision." 0 ###
08.01.2011	Washington D.C. – Congressman Steve King (R-IA) and Iowa's senators today met with the Postmaster General about the Sioux City mail processing center. The Iowa representatives in Congress sought the meeting to get answers about the Postal Service's expressed intention to move this processing center to Sioux Falls. King, Grassley and Harkin said that the Postmaster General told them the Postal Service will provide un-redacted data and other backup information about the study on which it's basing this decision to local leaders in Sioux City for review. Then, the Postal Service's vice president for area operations will go to Sioux City for a meeting with local leaders. The Iowa representatives also said that the Postmaster General said the Sioux City community would have an opportunity to present a counter-proposal, the Postal Service would take a look, and the Postal Service could potentially reconsider its decision if there's a significant breakthrough. "This was an important meeting. For the first time since the proposed consolidation was announced, Sioux City's business and community leaders will have the chance to review the data and rationale the Postal Service is relying upon to move Sioux City's mail processing operations to Sioux Falls. More importantly, Sioux City will have the opportunity to offer a counter proposal, which is something that should have happened long ago. I am pleased about the progress that was made today, and I look forward to continuing to work with Sioux City's leaders and our Senators to ensure that the commitments made today are fulfilled," King said. "The local community deserves to have its voice heard and to make a case to the Postal Service," Grassley said. "The goal of this meeting was to open that door. It should never have been shut." "This is a small victory for this community, but a victory nonetheless for residents who have not had their voices heard, up to this point. It is imperative that Western Iowa's citizens, businesses and workers are able to review and respond to all information surrounding the Postal Service's decision. Finally, this community will have some of the answers they have been seeking," Harkin said. 0 ###
08.01.2011	Congressman King: "The debt limit deal forfeits the mandate House Republicans received last November to 'hold the line' on the nation's debt and spending." Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting against legislation considered by the House this afternoon that provides for an increase in the nation's debt limit. The legislation, S. 365, represents the terms of a deal negotiated between Speaker John Boehner (R-OH), Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), Senator Mitch McConnell (R-KY), and President Barack Obama (D-IL) to increase the nation's debt limit. "Because S.365 represents a retreat from fiscal discipline and from the Balanced Budget Amendment, I voted against it," said King. "S.365's proposed spending cuts are far too small, and the fact that they are far into the future calls into question whether they will ever actually occur. The bill increases the nation's debt burden while placing the responsibility of dealing with Washington's addiction to debt and deficit spending on yet another commission, and on future Congresses and future Presidents." "As part of the final deal, S.365 also makes it more difficult for Congress to send a strong Balanced Budget Amendment to the states for ratification. It waters down the strong and specific Balanced Budget Amendment language contained in the 'Cut, Cap and Balance' bill. This debt limit deal forfeits the mandate that House Republicans received last November to 'hold the line' on the nation's debt and spending, and I could not support it." 0 ###
07.29.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting against legislation introduced by House Speaker John Boehner, S. 627, that provides for an increase in the nation's debt limit. "I voted for and supported the debt ceiling increase coupled with Cut, Cap and Balance which included a smart, visionary, balanced budget amendment to our Constitution that caps spending at 18% of GDP," said King. "That was the place to take a stand." "I voted against S. 627 because it weakens our position and makes it harder to realize the discipline necessary to significantly reduce our deficit and ultimately pay down our national debt." 0 ###
07.26.2011	Congressman King: "The USPS cannot be allowed to shirk its responsibilities in western Iowa." Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after the United States Postal Service announced that operations at approximately 3,700 post offices throughout the nation are being reviewed for possible "discontinuance and/or conversion to forms of alternative access." Included in this list are 178 post offices located in Iowa, 62 of which are in Iowa's Fifth Congressional District. "The United States Postal Service has released a nationwide list of approximately 3,700 post offices whose operations are under review for possible closure," said King. "Unfortunately, 62 facilities located in western Iowa are included on the list. Immediately after the list of Post Offices under review became available, I began reaching out to each of the 62 affected communities to enlist their help in the effort to protect western Iowa's interests throughout this process. In the coming days and weeks, I will be working with community leaders in each affected town to develop an individualized plan to ensure that the feedback and concerns of each community are brought to the attention of the Postal Service. The USPS cannot be allowed to take advantage of this situation to shirk its responsibilities in western Iowa." 0 ###
07.21.2011	7 Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announces that he has sent a letter signed by Iowa's entire House delegation to Administrator William Fugate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in support of Iowa's request for major disaster declaration 1998 to be amended to include Individual Assistance programs in Fremont, Harrison, Monona, Pottawattamie and Woodbury counties. Should FEMA grant the request, a variety of additional relief programs could become available to residents of flooded counties. King's letter to Fugate notes that nearly 200,000 citizens live in the counties that are covered by this request, and it urges FEMA to act "as soon as possible" on granting Iowa's request. "By granting this request, FEMA will make additional relief programs available to Iowans who are struggling with the personal and economic burdens being imposed upon them by the ongoing flooding," said King. "Many of these programs are specifically designed to assist people who have lost their home or their job due to this flood, and many Iowans find themselves having lost one or both. I am encouraging FEMA to move quickly to add these programs to the previously issued major disaster declaration, and I am grateful to my colleagues in the House delegation who have rallied in support of this effort." Congressman King has previously led the House delegation response in support of Iowa's request for a Presidential Disaster Declaration, and for an Agricultural Disaster Declaration. Both of these previous requests have been granted. 0 ### 0 Click here to view a copy of Congressman King's letter.
07.20.2011	Congressman King: "We must oppose any effort that would diminish the definition of marriage." Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee in opposition to legislation introduced by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) that seeks to promote same-sex marriage by repealing key provisions of the federal Defense of Marriage Act. King was invited to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee by the committee's ranking Republican member, Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA). King is a recognized leader in the effort to defend the traditional definition of marriage as between one man and one woman, having contributed to the drafting of Iowa's Defense of Marriage Act while serving in the Iowa Senate, and having been active in the successful effort to oust three Justices from the Iowa Supreme Court for issuing a lawless decision to recognize same-sex marriage within the state. King's statement follows: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I want to thank Senator Grassley also, for inviting me to testify here. It's an honor and a privilege to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee, and I testify, of course, in opposition to S.598 and other efforts to repeal the Defense of Marriage Act. The Defense of Marriage Act passed in 1996 by overwhelming bipartisan majorities and was signed into law by President Clinton. This law defined marriage as "a legal union between one man and one woman as husband and wife, and the word 'spouse' refers only to a person of the opposite sex who is a husband or a wife." This law also clarified that states did not have to recognize same-sex marriages performed in other states. Traditional marriage is a sacred institution and serves as the cornerstone of our society. We cannot afford to devalue it with legislation like S. 598 and we must oppose any effort that would diminish the definition of marriage. All of human experience points to one committed relationship between a man and a woman as the core building block to society. It takes a man and a woman to have children and children are necessary for the next generation and we need to pass through to to them the values of our civilization and the family. The U.S. Supreme Court affirmed this in 1888, when it stated, "Marriage is the foundation of the family and of society, without which there would be neither civilization nor progress." In 1942, the Supreme Court said, "Marriage and procreation are fundamental to the very existence and survival of the race." DOMA was passed in 1996 because Congress and President Clinton understood that "civil society has an interest in maintaining and protecting the institution of heterosexual marriage because it has a deep and abiding interest in encouraging responsible procreation and child-rearing." Now with today's proposed legislation, you're suggesting that the government does not have the same interest to protect marriage today as it did in 1996. The other side argues that "you can't choose who you love" and that a union between two men or two women is equal to that of one man and one woman. But these are the same arguments that could be used to promote marriage between fathers and daughters, mothers and sons, or even polygamous relationships. In 1998, I helped draft Iowa's Defense of Marriage Act, that states, "only a marriage between a male and a female is valid." In 2009, the Iowa Supreme Court issued a lawless decision in Varnum. v. Brien. Seven Iowa Supreme Court justices decided to legislate from the bench. They struck down Iowa's DOMA law. To read their opinion brings one to the conclusion that these justices believe they have the authority to find the Constitution itself--unconstitutional. They even went so far as to say that rights to same-sex marriage "were at one time unimagined." When Iowans went to polls on November 2, 2010, they sent a message to the Supreme Court of Iowa. They rejected the Varnum decision and historically ousted all three justices who were up for retention. That included Chief Justice Marsha Ternus. Never in the history of Iowa had the voters ousted a single Supreme Court Justice, let alone the three that were up for retention votes last November. In fact, every single time the American people have had the opportunity to vote on the definition of marriage, 31 out of 31 times, they have affirmed that marriage is and should remain the union of a husband and a wife. 30 states currently have constitutional amendments to define marriage between one man and one woman and Maine passed an initiative to overturn a same-sex marriage bill. Despite the clear will of the people, we have legislation like S. 598 before us today. We also have the President saying that DOMA is unconstitutional, despite no court ever reaching that conclusion. President Obama has also directed the Justice Department to stop defending the constitutionality of this law. It is not the role of the executive branch to determine what is or is not constitutional. It is the role of the executive branch to execute and uphold the laws that Congress passed. Now, I understand that yesterday President Obama announced that he would support the repeal of DOMA. It is his domain to take such a position. But contrary to that position, I think it is clear that the will of the American people to maintain, protect and uphold the definition of marriage between one man and one woman is there and this is good for families, good for society, and good for government. I would quickly add, Mr. Chairman, a couple of points about civil rights. Title 7 of the Civil Rights Act says protection for "race, color, religion, sex, national origin". Those, except for the Constitutional protection of religion, are immutable characteristics. Those characteristics that are immutable should be injected in the discussion. And a marriage license is offered because that's a permit to do that which is otherwise illegal. It's not a right to get married; that's why states regulate it by licensing. They want to encourage marriage. Thank you. I appreciate your attention and I yield back. 0 ###
07.15.2011	13 Lawmakers seek meeting after USPS fails to respond to requests for information about decision to close Sioux City Facility Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announces that he, Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA), have requested a meeting with Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe to discuss the Postal Service's plan to move the operations of the Sioux City Processing and Distribution Facility to a facility in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. The lawmakers are requesting a face-to-face meeting with the Postmaster General to discuss the Postal Service's failure to respond to concerns the lawmakers and the community have expressed about the Sioux City AMP decision. King, Grassley and Harkin made this request by letter to the Postmaster General. Statement from Congressman Steve King: "For months, Siouxlanders have been asking the Postal Service for critical information regarding the decision to close Sioux City's mail processing center. Nearly a month ago, I joined our senators in asking the Postal Service to allow the community the opportunity to provide informed input about the plan to close the facility and to meet with city officials to discuss possible alternatives to closure. We also asked that a new decision be made in light of the community's input. To date we've received no response from the Postmaster General, so I look forward to asking him these questions in person," King said. Statement from Senator Chuck Grassley: "A meeting would help to establish accountability, which has been lacking in the way the Postal Service handled its decision making about the Sioux City center. The Postal Service holds a public trust, and the public deserves a response, in this case through their elected representatives," Grassley said. Statement from Senator Tom Harkin: "It is imperative we meet with the Postmaster General. I have had concerns that the Postal Service has been more interested in checking a box in terms of receiving public input than in truly hearing from the community and addressing citizens' concerns. "This is a significant matter to Sioux City and western Iowa. Many important questions have remained unanswered and I am committed to ensuring Iowans' voices are heard before the USPS makes such a critical decision impacting the communities, businesses and jobs in Western Iowa," Harkin said. 0 # 0 Click here to view a copy of the letter.
07.13.2011	14 Video of today's press conference featuring King, Bachmann, and Gohmert available for viewing Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) hosted a press conference today to announce that he has introduced legislation that prioritizes payment to America's military personnel and America's public debt holders in the event that the nation reaches the debt limit. King's legislation, HR 2496, the "PROMISES (Payment Reliability for our Obligations to Military and Investors to Secure Essential Stability) Act," keeps the nation's promises to America's military personnel and protects the nation's credit against default. The bill also provides that, in the event of a funding gap, members of the military will continue to be paid without interruption. King was joined at the press conference by the bill's lead cosponsors, Representative Michele Bachmann (R-MN) and Representative Louie Gohmert (R-TX). Congressman Steve King: "We are setting priorities. We are protecting military pay and we're protecting the full faith and credit of the United States." King's "PROMISES Act" contains the following provisions which are triggered in the event the debt limit is reached: 0 0 0 The "PROMISES Act" also addresses payment priorities in the event of a government shutdown caused by a "funding gap", a situation that nearly arose earlier this year during the debate over the continuing resolution: 0 0 # 0 Click here for a copy of Congressman King's "PROMISES Act".
07.08.2011	Congressman King reacts to report showing unemployment increasing to 9.2% Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), a member of the House Committee on Small Business, issued the following statement after the Department of Labor released June job figures showing that the nation's unemployment rate increased to 9.2%. "Today's jobs report shows that Obamanomics is failing the country," said King. "When President Obama spent over $1 trillion on a 'stimulus' bill, his administration claimed that unemployment would not rise above 8%. Instead, with today's increase in the unemployment rate to 9.2%, unemployment has been over 8% for 29 straight months. Obamanomics is not producing a recovery; it is leaving our economy facing a long, uphill, slog." "In order to get Americans back to work, the President could take a variety of positive steps. He could work with me to repeal ObamaCare, a law which the CBO projects will cost 800,000 jobs, instead of fighting my repeal efforts. He could support my call for the passage of H.R. 25, the FairTax Act, to take the tax off of productivity, instead of advocating for increasing taxes that further punish productivity. And he could work to protect American jobs against low wage competition from illegal immigrants, instead of using the Justice Department to sue states like Arizona that pass strict immigration laws. " "Americans have every right to question President Obama's stewardship of the economy. Two and a half years of Obamanomics has led to modern day record unemployment rates, and it is clear that the President's failing tax-borrow-and-spend policies are suppressing and punishing production. We have to recover by producing our way out, not by borrowing and spending. Keynesian economics did not save America from the Great Depression and they are not working now. Instead, America now has to recover from a recession made worse by Obamanomics." #
07.08.2011	14 counties are eligible for FSA assistance for damages and losses caused by flooding Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announces that the United States Department of Agriculture has granted Iowa's request for a Secretarial disaster declaration. King led efforts in the House of Representatives in support of the state's request, and he secured the support of the entire House delegation on a letter to Secretary Vilsack urging the granting of the agriculture disaster declaration. "The Missouri River flood has caused extensive damage to farmland, and it has left Iowa's agricultural producers facing significant losses," said King. "The issuance of the Secretarial disaster designation will allow farm operators in 14 counties to apply for FSA emergency loans, and it will allow farmers to participate in the SURE program to help offset the financial damage caused by losing crops to the flood. I want to thank Secretary Vilsack for making the Secretarial disaster declaration, and I appreciate the fact that the designation was granted so quickly." The Secretarial disaster declaration covers both primary and contiguous counties that have sustained flood related damage and losses. Fremont, Harrison, Mills, Monona, Pottawattamie, and Woodbury counties are designated as primary counties, while Cass, Cherokee, Crawford, Ida, Montgomery, Page, Plymouth and Shelby counties are covered as contiguous counties. In order to receive emergency loan assistance, farmers in eligible counties must apply within eight months of the date of the Secretarial disaster declaration. Farmers who want additional information about available programs and eligibility requirements are encouraged to contact their local FSA offices. #
06.30.2011	8 Congressman King, Mayor Crain discuss town's efforts to protect against Missouri River flooding Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following photo and statement after traveling to Hamburg yesterday afternoon to discuss Hamburg's flood prevention efforts with Mayor Cathy Crain. During their meeting, King and Crain toured the levees that are protecting Hamburg from the encroaching Missouri River. They also discussed the extent of the damage being done to the town by the flood, and the importance of the recent federal disaster declaration that covers flooding in Fremont County. King led efforts in the House of Representatives in support of the federal disaster declaration. Congressman Steve King views flooded farmland while standing on Hamburg's southern levee. "The people of Hamburg are putting up a courageous effort to spare their town from further flood damage," said King. "The new levee that I saw is the town's last line of defense against the rising water which is only five feet from overtopping it. Scenes of flooded farmland are all too common in the wake of this flood, and they remind us of the extensive damage being done to homes, property, businesses and infrastructure along the Missouri River." # 0 Additional photos of Congressman King's stop in Hamburg are on Congressman King's Flickr site.
06.30.2011	7 Congressman King leads House delegation in support of State's request Washington D.C.- Today, Congressman Steve King (R-IA) sent a letter signed by Iowa's entire House delegation to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack urging him to grant a Secretarial Disaster Designation for agriculture damages caused by flooding in Fremont, Harrison, Mills, Monona, Pottawattamie, and Woodbury counties. If granted, the Secretarial Disaster Declaration will make additional federal disaster programs available for eligible residents in primary and contiguous counties. King's letter supplements a request for a Secretarial Disaster Declaration that has been sent to Secretary Vilsack by Governor Terry Branstad. "One of the things that is evident from the aerial surveys of Missouri River flooding I have participated in is the vast amount of farmland that is being destroyed," said King. "Iowa's agricultural producers will be experiencing significant losses from this flood and it is important that they be given the opportunity to participate in available disaster programs. Secretary Vilsack has the authority to issue a Secretarial Disaster Declaration, and my letter asks him to act promptly on this request." King's letter to Vilsack notes that the Farm Service Agency has conducted a review of agricultural damages, and that a Secretarial Disaster Declaration providing access to additional federal disaster programs is necessary because "this long-duration flooding will result in potentially significant production and agricultural systems losses in affected areas". # 0 Ciick here to view Congressman King's letter to Secretary Vilsack.
06.27.2011	8 Announcement made following King, Branstad and Hill's Survey of Flood-Affected Areas along Missouri River Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announces that Governor Terry Branstad's request for a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration covering six Iowa counties affected by Missouri River flooding has been granted. The disaster declaration opens the door for the release of federal emergency assistance resources to Fremont, Harrison, Mills, Monona, Pottawattamie, and Woodbury counties. The announcement of a federal disaster declaration was made just after Congressman King, Governor Branstad and General Derek Hill concluded an aerial survey of the damage being done to communities along the Missouri River. "The sheer scale of the damage being done by this flood cannot be fully appreciated until it is seen from the air," said King. "Today, Governor Branstad, General Hill, and I flew by Black Hawk helicopter from Sioux City to Council Bluffs in order to examine the flood's overall impact on communities along this stretch of the Missouri River. This was the third aerial survey of this flood in which I have participated, and the magnitude of the flood's reach now is much greater than it was just two weeks ago. At the conclusion of our survey, we learned that the State of Iowa's request for a federal disaster declaration covering six counties affected by Missouri River flooding has been granted. This announcement should come as welcome news because it means that federal resources are now available to assist ongoing recovery efforts. I am pleased with the President's decision to approve this request, and I am grateful to my colleagues in Iowa's House delegation for working with me to get this result." On June 20, Congressman King sent a letter to President Obama requesting that he grant the Governor's request for a federal disaster declaration for flooding occurring in six counties (Fremont, Harrison, Mills, Monona, Pottawattamie, and Woodbury). Congressman King initiated the congressional letter of support for this request, and King's letter was signed by Iowa's entire House delegation. Over the past month, Congressman King has traveled throughout the Fifth District to examine the flood's impact on local communities, travels which have included extensive aerial surveys of the flooding from the southern tip of the Fifth District to Gavins Point in Yankton, South Dakota. Click here to view Federal Emergency Management Agency release providing details about the disaster declaration. #
06.24.2011	7 King's effort supported by Members of Congress from Nebraska, Kansas, and Missouri Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he has sent a letter to President Barack Obama to ask that he visit communities along the Missouri River that have been hardest hit by ongoing flooding. King's letter notes that President Obama will be traveling to Iowa on June 28th, and it requests that the President extend his trip to include stops in flood-ravaged communities along the Missouri River to gain a "firsthand understanding" of the flood's severity. King's letter to the President is signed by four additional Members of Congress, all of whom represent communities along the Missouri River. "Since President Obama will be in eastern Iowa on June 28th, I think he should extend his trip so that he can travel to the western side of the state to visit communities along the Missouri River that are being ravaged by flooding," said King. "These communities are in need of federal recovery resources, and it is important that the President personally understand the severity of the flood-related damage so that he can better direct the federal government's response." "It is also important for the President to visit these communities so that he can offer comfort and support to people who are losing their homes, businesses, and property to this flood. The rising water is redirecting the lives of thousands of people along the Missouri River, and they need to know that the President understands their plight. Should the President agree to this request, I will work with the other Members who signed this letter to do whatever is necessary to help facilitate his visit to these communities." Congressman King's letter was delivered to the White House this afternoon. Click here to view a copy of the letter. #
06.23.2011	Information may help state officials prepare Iowa's request for federal aid Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) is encouraging all residents and businesses impacted by the flooding of the Missouri River to call the Iowa Concern Hotline (1-800-447-1985) to confidentially report their damage estimates to state officials. The information provided may be used by state officials as they prepare Iowa's request for federal disaster aid. "Governor Branstad has announced that Iowa residents and businesses can call the Iowa Concern Hotline 24 hours a day, seven days a week to provide estimates of flood-related property damage totals," said King. "I encourage everyone in Woodbury, Monona, Pottawattamie, Mills, Harrison and Fremont counties who has sustained damages from this flood to consider making this call. Reporting is confidential, and the information that is provided could greatly affect the amount of federal disaster relief the state receives." The following information regarding the Iowa Concern Hotline was released by the Governor's office yesterday afternoon: Flood-impacted residents in Woodbury, Monona, Harrison, Pottawattamie, Mills and Fremont counties, are asked to contact the Iowa Concern Hotline at 1-800-447-1985. Calls will be taken 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Callers to the Iowa Concern Hotline should be prepared to provide information and answers to the following questions: • Name • Current address and phone number • Address of flood-affected home or business • Is this a rental property? • Is this a primary or vacation home? • Is the business currently open or closed due to flooding? • Have you lost your job because of flooding? • Do you have flood insurance? • How many floors are flooded, including the basement? • How deep is the water on the topmost floor that is flooded? Flood damage to farm residences may be reported to the Iowa Concern Hotline. Damage to other agricultural buildings, equipment and property should be reported to the local office of the Farm Service Agency. REPORTING OF DAMAGE INFORMATION IS NOT AN APPLICATION FOR ASSISTANCE. Information provided to the Iowa Concern Hotline will be kept confidential. For more information, please click here. #
06.23.2011	7 Nelson's artwork will be displayed in U.S. Capitol for one year Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after meeting with Hannah Nelson of Shannon City to congratulate her for winning the Fifth District Congressional Art Competition. Nelson won the competition after her acrylic painting entitled "Octopus" was selected by a panel of judges to represent the Fifth District in the annual, nation-wide, high-school arts competition. As the Fifth District winner, Nelson's artwork will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol, and she is eligible to receive a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. Congressman Steve King and Hannah Nelson stand next to Nelson's winning acrylic painting, "Octopus". Nelson's artwork is currently on display in the U.S. Capitol. "I am pleased to congratulate Hannah Nelson for her achievement, and I commend her for taking the initiative to participate in the Congressional Art Competition," said King. "I am always impressed by the skill, talent and hard work displayed by the students who participate in the competition, and these traits are evident in Hannah's painting." Congressman King sponsors the Congressional Art Competition each spring, and the contest is open to all Fifth District high school students. Any students or schools interested in participating in next year's Congressional Art Competition should contact Laura Hartman in Congressman King's Creston office at 641-782-2495 for additional information. #
06.23.2011	Congressman King: "I don't say we need to build 2,000 miles of a fence, a wall and a fence; I just say build it until they stop going around the end." Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Vice-Chairman of the Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement, today stated that recent violence along the United States/Mexico border demonstrates the need to secure the border with a "fence, wall and a fence." King made his comments during an appearance this afternoon on the Fox News program "America Live." During the segment, King was asked to respond to a recent incident in which a U.S. Border Patrol Agent used lethal force to defend himself after individuals he was attempting to apprehend for illegally crossing the border attacked him. Above: Watch Congressman King discuss border security on FOX News "America Live" #
06.21.2011	7 Letter from King, Grassley and Harkin faults USPS for failing to discuss alternatives to closure with the City of Sioux City Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) has issued the following statement challenging the announced decision of the United States Postal Service (USPS) to consolidate the Sioux City Processing and Distribution Facility with a USPS facility in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. "The Postal Service should suspend its decision to close the Sioux City Processing and Distribution Facility because it did not give the community a meaningful opportunity to discuss alternatives to closure with them," said King. "The Postal Service announced its decision to consolidate the Sioux City facility just eight days after partially releasing information that Sioux City needed to analyze in order to provide effective input into the decision process. This calls the basis of the Postal Service's claim that 'the community's input was valued and carefully considered' during the decision making process into question, and we have every right to be skeptical of the Postal Service's decision." Congressman King's statement was made shortly after Congressman King, Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) sent a letter to the Postmaster General of the United States requesting the USPS suspend their decision to close the Sioux City Processing and Distribution Facility. In addition to requesting the suspension of the closure decision, the letter also asks that Postal Service officials meet with the City of Sioux City to discuss possible alternatives to the closing of the Sioux City facility, and it requests that the USPS make a "new decision" that "takes full account of the Siouxland community's input." # Click here to view the letter sent by Congressman King, Senator Grassley and Senator Harkin.
06.20.2011	7 Congressman King leads House delegation response to flooding in Fremont, Harrison, Mills, Monona, Pottawattamie and Woodbury counties Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Steve King (R-IA) sent a letter signed by Iowa's entire House delegation to President Barack Obama asking him to grant Governor Terry Branstad's request for a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration for six counties that have been ravaged by Missouri River flooding. If granted, the disaster declaration will trigger the release of federal emergency assistance resources to Fremont, Harrison, Mills, Monona, Pottawattamie and Woodbury counties to aid their response to flooding that began on May 25, 2011 and is continuing. King initiated the congressional letter of support for the state's request. "Missouri River flooding is doing extensive damage to western Iowa, and I am asking the President to grant the state's request for a Major Disaster Declaration," said King. "From Sioux City to Hamburg, this flood is consuming homes, businesses, farmland, and infrastructure, and the damage will continue to mount as the water remains with us over the summer. With the support of Iowa's House delegation behind the state's request, the President should not hesitate to issue a disaster declaration that will allow federal resources to strengthen ongoing recovery and relief efforts." King's letter to President Obama notes that Governor Branstad has asked for a Major Disaster Declaration after determining that the ongoing Missouri River flooding "is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and the affected local governments and that supplementary federal assistance is necessary." # 0 For your convenience, a copy of Congressman King's letter can be found here.
06.17.2011	Congressman King reacts to strong showing of Congressional disapproval for settlement program funding unresolved Pigford v. Vilsack claims Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after 155 Members of Congress voted in favor of an amendment he offered to the Agriculture Appropriations bill in an attempt to block an additional $1.15 billion in spending allocated for the fraud-plagued Pigford II settlement program. "The vote on my amendment revealed that 155 Members of Congress are prepared to join me in pulling the plug on funding for unresolved Pigford v. Vilsack claims because of the concerns that have been raised about widespread fraud," said King. "These concerns are well placed." "How is it possible that Secretary Vilsack can identify 94,000 'victims' of USDA discrimination against black farmers from a total universe of only 18,000 black farmers? The original USDA estimate predicted that 3,000 of 18,000 black farmers would file a discrimination claim. Now, Tom Vilsack and Eric Holder have taken it upon themselves to negotiate a $1.15 billion agreement in Pigford II with the anonymous representatives of a universe of anonymous claimants that has swelled to 94,000. When added to the tab of the Pigford I settlement, this new $1.15 billion agreement brings the total taxpayer funded Pigford payout to $2.3 billion." "We do not have the list of all the attorneys who are collecting commissions as part of these settlements, but we do have video footage of one of them admitting that 10% of his clients are frauds. Despite this, Secretary Vilsack asserts there are only three cases of fraud in the 94,000 -- yet the USDA has not identified, let alone disciplined, a single employee who discriminated against even one of these 94,000." "We've all heard the expression 'victimless crime', but now we have 'crimeless victims' –- individuals who, without basis for a grievance, claim to be victims even though no one can be identified as having discriminated against them. In light of the strong showing of support for my effort to block funding for Pigford II, the House should now be prepared to initiate a Congressional investigation. The 155 votes my amendment received indicate that the stage has been set for this Congress to investigate Pigford II fraud fully." #
06.16.2011	Congressman King's amendment prevents Ag Bill funds from being spent on abortion drug RU-486 "for any purpose" Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted 240-176 to pass an amendment he introduced which prevents any funds within HR 2112, the Agriculture Appropriations bill, from being spent on the abortion drug RU-486 "for any purpose," including use in "telemed abortions." Telemed abortions involve using videoconferencing technology to dispense mifepristone, the abortion drug commonly known as RU-486, to patients without having a doctor present. Abortion providers like Planned Parenthood are the frequent recipient of federal telemedicine grants, and King's amendment makes it clear that telemedicine grants contained within the agriculture bill cannot be used to facilitate the use of RU-486 in "telemed abortions." This issue is of particular importance in Iowa, as the "telemed abortion" technique was developed by the Des Moines-based abortion provider "Planned Parenthood of the Heartland", and reports indicate that 1,900 chemical abortions using this technology have been performed in Iowa alone. Video: Watch Congressman King debate his pro-life amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations bill. King's amendment passed the House today on a vote of 240-176. "I applaud the House of Representatives for passing my important pro-life amendment today," said King. "American taxpayers should not be asked to subsidize abortions, and federal telemedicine grants should not be used to enable abortion providers like Planned Parenthood to dispense the RU-486 abortion drug. My amendment ensures that no telemedicine grant money in the Agriculture Appropriations bill will be spent for any purpose that enables abortionists to perform 'telemed abortions.' Cutting off this source of funding for this procedure will save the lives of women and unborn babies." #
06.15.2011	7 Congressman King's amendment to Agriculture Appropriations bill protects taxpayers from additional exposure to Pigford fraud Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after filing an amendment today to H.R 2112, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2012, that prevents any funds appropriated under the act from being used to settle claims associated with the controversial and fraud-plagued Pigford II program. "In the 2008 Farm Bill, Congress limited taxpayers' exposure to the Pigford II settlement program at $100 million, a figure that was deemed sufficient to resolve the racial discrimination claims leveled against the United States Department of Agriculture by black farmers," said King. "Since that time, a lame-duck Democratic Congress agreed to President Obama's request to pump an additional $1.15 billion into the Pigford II settlement program, doing so even though the program is rife with credible allegations of massive fraud that have not been fully investigated. This was an irresponsible act, and it violated Congress's responsibility to be good stewards of taxpayers' money." "The new majority in the House of Representatives should not ratify the lame-duck Congress's decision to increase American taxpayers' exposure to Pigford II fraud. I believe that an investigation into the program will reveal that the majority of the claims that have been filed are fraudulent, and Congress should not turn a blind eye to the real possibility that the money is being used primarily to build political goodwill for the President instead of being used to properly redress the much smaller universe of people who have actually suffered harm. If passed, my amendment would put the brakes on Pigford II funding, and it would prevent the Secretary of Agriculture from paying fraudulent claims one $50,000 check at a time." # 0 For your convenience, a copy of Congressman King's amendment can be found here .
06.13.2011	9 Congressman King gets firsthand look at flood's impact in Woodbury, Monona, Pottawattamie and Fremont counties Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement and photos after traveling throughout the 5th District to inspect the impact of Missouri River flooding on local communities. As part of his survey, King made stops in Woodbury, Monona, Pottawattamie and Fremont counties. At each stop, King examined the extent of area flooding and received briefings on actions that local communities are taking to implement emergency management procedures to safeguard the lives and property of Iowans. King also participated in an aerial survey of Missouri River flooding, viewing the flood's effects from the southern tip of the Fifth district to Gavin's Point in Yankton, South Dakota. Congressman Steve King fills sandbags in Sioux City during a June 7 stop to assess local flood prevention efforts. "The Missouri River flood is affecting communities throughout western Iowa, and the scope and scale cannot be understood fully until it is seen firsthand," said King. "Homes are being flooded, crops are being destroyed, businesses are being closed, and, unfortunately, the flood waters will not be receding anytime soon. According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, this will be a historic flood. It is exactly the kind of natural disaster that requires a coordinated response from all levels of government- local, state and federal." "I will be working with the Governor's office, and with my colleagues in Congress, to ensure that communities throughout western Iowa have access to the federal resources that are available to help them protect their citizens and infrastructure, and to help them recover. I also want to express my appreciation for everyone who is volunteering their time to assist with flood prevention efforts. Sandbags do not fill or place themselves, and it has been inspiring to watch Iowans band together to do the hard work that is necessary to keep the water out." # 0 For your convenience, more photos are available on Congressman King's Flickr.
06.08.2011	7 Congressman King surveys area flooding, fills sandbags alongside local residents Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after meeting yesterday afternoon with county and local officials in Woodbury County to be briefed on current efforts to protect area communities from Missouri River flood damage. The briefing, which occurred at the Emergency Operations Center at Western Iowa Tech Community College, was attended by officials representing Woodbury County and the local communities of Sioux City, Hornick, Salix, Sergeant Bluff, and Sloan. Prior to the briefing, King filled sandbags at the Long Lines Family Rec Center, and he surveyed area flooding with Sioux City's City Manager, Paul Eckert, and Sioux City's Public Works Director, Chris Payer. Congressman Steve King joins local residents to fill sandbags during June 7 visit to Sioux City. "I am impressed with the steps that are being taken by local officials and volunteers to prepare for the rising waters of the Missouri River," said King. "This is a historic flood, and it is important that every effort is taken to protect the lives and property of people in the water's path. I will be working with the Governor, Iowa's congressional delegation, and Members of Congress throughout the Missouri River Basin to ensure that communities throughout western Iowa that are impacted by this disastrous flood have access to the federal resources that are available to help them protect their citizens and infrastructure and recover from the damage that is done." Among those in attendance at the briefing were Sioux City Mayor Mike Hobart, Fire Chief Tom Everett, Hornick Mayor Robert Nelson, Salix Mayor Linda Cox, Sergeant Bluff Mayor Dale Petersen, Sloan Mayor Tom Ullrich, Woodbury County Board of Supervisors Chair Mark Monson, and Woodbury County Emergency Management Director Gary Brown. #
06.08.2011	6 Pending FTAs projected to create 1,400 Agriculture-related jobs in Iowa Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee, today joined Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Congressman Tom Latham (R-IA) on a letter thanking Iowa Governor Terry Branstad for supporting efforts in Congress to pass pending Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) with the countries of Colombia, South Korea and Panama. Free Trade Agreements with these countries are currently awaiting congressional action, and enactment of them is projected to provide a significant boost to the agricultural and manufacturing sectors of Iowa's economy. "Governor Branstad understands that passage of the Free Trade Agreements with Colombia, South Korea and Panama will strengthen Iowa's economy, and I appreciate his advocacy for quick congressional action," said King. "The Iowa Farm Bureau has estimated that these three trade agreements will create over 1,400 agriculture-related jobs in Iowa and that they will boost Iowa's agricultural exports by $162.2 million annually. These numbers help illustrate just how uniquely well positioned our state is to benefit from these Free Trade Agreements, and Congress should make their passage a top priority." All Members of Iowa's congressional delegation in both the House and Senate were extended an opportunity to join Congressman King, Congressman Latham and Senator Grassley in signing the letter of support. Read the letter. #
06.03.2011	King supports House Resolution to Require Detailed Report from President Regarding U.S. Involvement in Libya Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting in favor of a resolution introduced by House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) to require President Obama to provide Congress with a detailed description of the national security interests that justify American military involvement in Libya and to provide information about the objectives, scope, anticipated duration, cost, and diplomatic implications of our military involvement there. The resolution also requires the President to provide Congress with detailed information about the Libyan opposition rebels who have risen up to challenge the dictatorial rule of Moammar Gadhafi. The Boehner resolution, H. Res. 292, passed the House of Representatives this afternoon by a vote of 268-145-1. "Neither the American people nor Congress can be expected to support an engagement about which they have been given no substantive information regarding its objectives, costs, or consequences, " said King. "Speaker Boehner's resolution reflects this principle by requiring the President to make the case for his decision to commit our armed forces to combat operations in Libya. The resolution requires that the President produce for Congress information about the scope of our military involvement, the implications of it, and the goals that are to be achieved. We agree that we are against Gadhafi, but the President has not made the case as to who the rebels that we are supporting actually are, and what kind of government they would bring about. Today's House vote will put added pressure on the President to make his case to the American people." #
06.02.2011	Congressman King's amendments added to Homeland Security Bill Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved three amendments he introduced to H.R. 2017, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2012. The first of King's amendments dedicates funding to U.S. Customs and Border Protection for the eradication of lookout points that have been established along the U.S.-Mexico border by drug smugglers. The second allocates funds for the hiring and training of additional officers to serve in Immigration and Customs Enforcement's "Shadow Wolves" program. The third King amendment prohibits any federal funding appropriated by the DHS bill from being distributed to the Association of Community Organizers for Reform Now (ACORN) and its more than 300 affiliates. H.R. 2017 passed the House of Representatives today on a vote of 231-188. Click the play button to watch Congressman Steve King introduce, and the House pass, King's amendment funding efforts to eliminate border lookout points established by drug smugglers. "Americans want the border with Mexico secured, and I am pleased that the House has passed my amendments that provide funding for two important border security initiatives," said King. "Human traffickers and drug smugglers are establishing lookout points on the U.S. side of the border that allow them to evade American law enforcement efforts. These lookout points must be eradicated if we are to regain operational control of the border, and one of my amendments provides funding for U.S. Customs and Border Protection to target and eliminate them. The House also accepted my amendment providing funding for Immigration and Customs Enforcement to hire and train personnel to serve in the 'Shadow Wolves' program. 'Shadow Wolves' are Native American law enforcement officers who combine modern technology and ancient tracking techniques to identify, follow and arrest drug smugglers and human traffickers crossing into the deserts of Arizona from Mexico. This is a border security program that has proven results, and I am pleased that it has received the support of the House. The last of my amendments passed by the House blocks federal funding for ACORN and its over 300 affiliate organizations. ACORN is a corrupt criminal enterprise that threatens our democratic system of government by systematically committing voter registration fraud. American taxpayers should not be asked to fund an organization that is dedicated to corrupting the sanctity of every American's vote." #
05.31.2011	7 Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after being named a "Defender of Liberty" by the American Conservative Union (ACU). King was presented with the "Defender of Liberty Award" by ACU Chairman Al Cardenas. The ACU awards the title of "Defender of Liberty" based on an analysis of congressional votes on issues that are of particular importance to grassroots conservatives. For votes cast in 2010, King received a total of 96 points out of a possible 100. Congressman Steve King (at left) receives the ACU "Defender of Liberty Award" from ACU Chairman Al Cardenas "The ACU is one of the leading voices in the conservative movement, and it is an honor to receive their 'Defender of Liberty Award,'" said King. "The ACU champions the causes of individual liberty, personal responsibility, lower taxation, smaller government, and reduced spending, and I am proud that they have judged my voting record to be in accord with promoting these important principles." ACU Chairman Al Cardenas said the following after presenting Congressman King with the award: "The 'Defender of Liberty Award' is a reflection of Congressman King's outstanding record in support of conservative principles on a wide range of issues of concern to grassroots conservatives in 2010, and Congressman King is someone who conservatives across the country turn to for leadership. At a time when the fundamental principles of the American system of government are being challenged, Congressman King stands with those who are trying to preserve those principles." #
05.31.2011	Congressman King: President's $2.4 trillion debt increase could be offset by repealing ObamaCare Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 1954, legislation that unconditionally raises the nation's debt limit by $2.4 trillion. The Obama administration has repeatedly asserted that the debt limit should be increased by $2.4 trillion, and it has opposed efforts to attach significant spending cuts and major budgetary reforms to the debt limit legislation. H.R. 1954 was drafted to mirror the President's proposal. The House defeated the legislation by a vote of 318-97, a margin that stands as a clear rebuke to the President's irresponsible debt limit request. "President Obama is asking for the ability to place Americans $2.4 trillion deeper into debt with no strings attached, and that is irresponsible," said King. "America faces a debt crisis not because Washington taxes too little, but because the President and his liberal supporters in Congress spend too much. Unless the debt ceiling legislation includes major spending cuts, significant budget reforms, or both, Congress should not increase the debt limit. If the President needs help finding spending cuts to offset his $2.4 trillion debt request, I would suggest to him that repealing ObamaCare would save the taxpayers $2.6 trillion and we should start there." #
05.27.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following column today discussing the importance of honoring our nation's fallen military heroes on Memorial Day by rededicating ourselves to the cause of liberty for which they fought. Lincoln's Lesson for Memorial Day by Congressman Steve King Memorial Day is America's most solemn national holiday. It is the day Americans pay tribute to the brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces who lost their lives in service to the nation. All Americans owe these fallen heroes a debt of gratitude, and Memorial Day provides all of us with an opportunity to honor their lives, reflect on their sacrifices, and express our sincerest thanks. It is important that we remember those who sacrifice all on our country's behalf not only because it honors the significance of their actions, but also because it serves to encourage those who remain as the living beneficiaries of their gallantry to carry on the nation's mission. In fact, it is this principle that is embedded in one of the most important speeches in American history: President Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address. Many forget the backdrop in which President Lincoln delivered the Gettysburg Address. President Lincoln had been invited to deliver brief remarks at a dedication ceremony for the Soldiers' National Cemetery in Gettysburg, which had recently been created so that the bodies of those who had perished during the Civil War's Battle of Gettysburg could be properly interred. While the Union Army had recently defeated Southern forces in this battle, the outcome of the war itself was still very much in doubt. Lincoln understood, however, that the sacrifices made by the Union soldiers would be in vain if the living did not rededicate themselves to the nation's cause of freedom. This is the lesson contained within the Gettysburg Address. Consider the following passage of the speech: "But in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate -- we cannot consecrate-- we cannot hallow-- this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us -- that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion -- that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain -- that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom -- and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth." When Lincoln uttered these words, Memorial Day did not exist. And yet, the wisdom contained within these words is directly attributable to our commemoration of Memorial Day today. As part of America's traditional Memorial Day observances, the President of the United States issues a proclamation calling upon Americans to express unity by taking several specific actions. Americans are asked to unite in prayer at 11:00 AM on that day, to observe the National Moment of Remembrance at 3:00 PM, and to fly their flags at half staff from dawn until noon. These are all respectful acts that dignify our fallen heroes, and that serve to remind Americans of the nature of the sacrifice that has been made on their behalf. I believe that Americans should also consider taking a moment of time on Memorial Day to reflect upon Abraham Lincoln's words. It is essential to honor our nation's fallen soldiers on Memorial Day by rededicating ourselves to the cause of liberty which has always been represented by the flag under which they proudly served. ### 0 Congressman Steve King (R-IA) represents Iowa's Fifth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives.
05.27.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement encouraging citizens in the 5th District to participate in the spirit of Memorial Day by honoring the brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces who have sacrificed their lives in service to the country. "Memorial Day is the most solemn day on the national calendar, and it is important that we remember to honor the fallen heroes of the United States Armed Forces to whom we all owe a debt of gratitude," said King. "As Americans take part in Memorial Day events this weekend, I encourage them to join with me in offering prayers and thanks for all those who have made the ultimate sacrifice in the service of our great nation. Our fallen heroes fought to preserve and protect the principles of liberty and freedom that Americans cherish, and we can honor their memories by rededicating ourselves to the furtherance of these core American values." Congressman King has also released a column entitled "Lincoln's Lessons for Memorial Day" that discusses the importance of honoring our nation's fallen military heroes on Memorial Day by rededicating ourselves to the cause of liberty for which they fought. The column is available on Congressman King's website, and it may be accessed by clicking HERE. #
05.26.2011	Congressman King: "If a roving wiretap is good enough for Tony Soprano, it's good enough for Mohamed Atta." Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement tonight after voting in favor of legislation that reauthorizes three key provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act that were set to expire. The legislation passed the House of Representatives on a vote of 250 to 153. "If a roving wiretap is good enough for Tony Soprano, it's good enough for Mohamed Atta," said King. "That's the real issue because the provisions of the PATRIOT Act that were reauthorized today simply allow counterterrorism agents to use the same investigative techniques that law enforcement agents have been using against criminal suspects for decades. These techniques have consistently been found to be constitutional, and they provide counterterrorism agents with the ability to level the playing field against terror suspects. The PATRIOT Act is an important component of America's War on Terror, and Congress was correct to reauthorize the use of these common sense investigative techniques." The three counterterrorism tools that Congressman King voted to reauthorize are: • Allowing counterterrorism agents armed with a court order to use "roving wiretaps" to conduct surveillance of terrorist suspects who are shown to be an agent of a foreign power. • Enabling FBI agents who have received a judge's approval to gain access to business records in foreign intelligence, international terrorism and espionage cases. • Allowing counterterrorism agents to apply for a court order permitting them to monitor a "lone wolf" whom they suspect of being a member of a foreign terrorist organization. The "lone wolf" provision can only be used to investigate international terrorism and cannot be applied to American citizens. Congressman King has also authored an op-ed on the importance of renewing these PATRIOT Act provisions. The op-ed, "Patriot Act Fits Tea Party Standards," can be viewed at this link. #
05.25.2011	5 Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after meeting today with students from Morningside College in Washington, D.C. The students are in Washington to participate in their May term course entitled "Washington, D.C.: A Capital Experience." Also in attendance at today's meeting was Dr. Patrick McKinlay, Professor and Chair of Morningside College's Department of History and Political Science. Congressman King and participants in Morningside College's "Washington, D.C.: A Capital Experience" program stand in front of the U.S. Capitol. From left to right: Nancy Waterstraat, Olivia Jensen, Elizabeth Norton, Ashley Runge, Congressman Steve King, Jeremy Green, Shannon Schroeder, Gustav Hollnagel, and Professor Patrick McKinlay. "Morningside College is one of Sioux City's greatest treasures, and I was pleased to have the opportunity to meet with several of its students this afternoon," said King. "These students displayed a keen interest in world events, and it was a pleasure speaking with them on a day that was highlighted by a historic address to a Joint Meeting of Congress by Israel's Prime Minister. Many of these students expressed an interest in returning to Washington to pursue internships opportunities, and they were thrilled to learn that my Legislative Director is herself an alumnus of Morningside. I have no doubt that these students are making the most of the educational opportunities available to them at Morningside College." #
05.25.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after opposing legislation brought to the House floor to repackage, rather than repeal, one of the many automatically funded programs created in ObamaCare. The legislation, H.R. 1216, rescinds automatically appropriated funding for the Graduate Medical Education (GME) program created in the ObamaCare law, replacing it with language that authorizes Congress to provide funds for the program through the regular appropriations process. "While I support efforts to cut off the streams of automatic funding to ObamaCare, I do not believe we should be replacing them with language to authorize funding in the future. Rather than advancing the cause of 100% repeal, I believe that today's bill adds legitimacy to a law that should be pulled out by its roots." #
05.24.2011	Congressman King Reacts to Netanyahu's Address to Congress Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after attending today's Joint Meeting of Congress to receive an address from the Prime Minister of Israel, Binyamin Netanyahu. Last week, President Barack Obama endorsed a Palestinian demand that the State of Israel return to its 1967 borders so that a "sovereign and contiguous" Palestinian state can be created. Obama's demand has been rejected by Prime Minister Netanyahu, who has stated that Obama's proposal would jeopardize Israel's security because a return to the 1967 borders would be "indefensible." "By endorsing proposals that jeopardize Israel's security, President Obama has revealed that his disturbing vision for the Middle East includes both an 'Arab Spring' and an 'Israeli Winter,'" said King. "In his address, Prime Minister Netanyahu reminded Americans of our mutual interest in promoting individual liberty and democracy in a region that is often hostile to both principles. He also laid out an alternative vision for a negotiated peace in which Israel's security needs would be respected. Americans will be receptive to the approach articulated by Prime Minister Netanyahu, and I believe that Americans will stand with Israel as it seeks a peace which does not jeopardize its right to exist." #
05.10.2011	8 Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today announced that Hannah Nelson of Shannon City has won the 2011 Congressional Art Competition for the Fifth District of Iowa. Nelson, a senior at East Union Community School, won the competition for her acrylic painting entitled "Octopus." As the Fifth District winner, Nelson's artwork will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol, she and a guest will be flown to Washington, D.C. courtesy of Southwest Airlines to attend a Congressional reception, and she is eligible to receive a $1,500 per year scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. "I am pleased to offer my congratulations to Hannah Nelson for winning the Fifth District Congressional Art Competition," said King. "As the sponsor of this competition, I am always impressed by the artistic talent and creativity displayed by our high school students. Nelson's work demonstrates that she possesses an exceptional talent, and I look forward to seeing her painting on display in the U.S. Capitol building." Hannah Nelson's winning entry, "Octopus." The Fifth District's 2011 Congressional Art Competition featured 13 entries. Nelson's artwork was selected by a two-judge panel consisting of Bubba Sorenson, the artist behind The Freedom Rock, and Susan Walker, an art teacher at Mayflower Heritage Christian School in Creston. Congressman King sponsors the Congressional Art Competition annually, and the contest is open to all Fifth District high school students. Any students or schools interested in participating in next year's Congressional Art Competition should contact Laura Hartman in Congressman King's Creston Office at 641-782-2495 for additional information. 0 #
05.10.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Vice-Chairman of the Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement, released the following statement after President Obama delivered a speech in El Paso, Texas calling for passage of amnesty legislation for illegal aliens. During his speech, President Obama encouraged passage of the DREAM Act, controversial legislation which provides illegal aliens with the ability to pay in-state tuition at public universities, and for a 'pathway to citizenship' which most Americans recognize as amnesty for illegal aliens. "In December, President Obama failed to appease his liberal, open-border supporters when he was unable to move the DREAM Act through the lame duck Congress," said King. "Since that time, advocates for illegal aliens have made it known to the President that they might not support his re-election efforts if he doesn't pass amnesty legislation. The President is buckling in the face of this threat, and he has apparently decided that he needs to shove amnesty down Americans' throats in order to fire up his dispirited base for 2012. If enacted, the President's amnesty proposals would undermine the Rule of Law, and I will continue to oppose any effort that seeks to reward immigrant lawbreakers with the objective of their crime." 0 #
05.06.2011	Deadline for Completed Applications is August 1st, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today invited interested High School Juniors in the Fifth District to submit applications for nomination to participate in the Congressional Page Program. King's office has been selected by Speaker John Boehner to take part in the Fall 2011 program. The deadline for submitting a completed application is Monday, August 1st, 2011. "The Congressional Page Program offers students a rare opportunity to experience law-making up close," said King. "There is no better way to learn about how Congress works than to be a part of it. Every day pages do the important work necessary to keep the wheels of the House of Representatives moving, and I look forward to reviewing the applications of the young people from the Fifth District who are interested in joining the ranks of the House pages this fall." In order to serve as a Republican Page, an applicant must meet all of the following criteria: • The applicant must be a United States citizen; • The applicant must reside in the state the nominating Member of Congress represents; • The applicant must be at least 16 years of age, but not yet 18 years of age; • The applicant must be in, or entering, the 11th Grade; • The applicant must have a cumulative grade point average of a "B" or better (3.0 on the 4.0 scale) in the five major subject areas; and • The applicant must have health insurance. Completed applications must be submitted to Congressman King's office for review. Candidates will be asked to provide two official school transcripts, a school report prepared by the school guidance counselor, signed parental consent and information forms, two essays, a resume of extra-curricular activities and three letters of recommendation. In order to receive an application form, or to have any additional questions about the page program addressed, please contact Congressman King's District Representative, Laura Hartman, at 641-782-2495. Completed applications should be mailed to: Office of Congressman Steve King ATTN: Laura Hartman PO Box 601 Creston, IA 50801 0 Anyone wanting additional information about the Congressional Page Program should click here. 0 #
05.05.2011	4 Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today announced that a major disaster declaration has been issued for the State of Iowa that will trigger the release of Federal funds to help communities recover from damage caused by severe storms, tornadoes and straight-line winds which battered the state on April 9-10, 2011. The counties that have been designated for public assistance are Buena Vista, Cherokee, Ida, Monona, Pocahontas, and Sac. Today's announcement comes shortly after members of Iowa's House delegation sent a letter to President Obama asking that he approve Governor Branstad's request for a major disaster declaration. "The severe storms that swept through Iowa on April 9 and 10 left many communities in western Iowa hurting," said King. "With today's major disaster declaration, communities in Buena Vista, Cherokee, Ida, Monona, Pocahontas and Sac counties will be eligible to receive public assistance funding for the repair, restoration, reconstruction, or replacement of public facilities or infrastructure that were damaged by the storms. After I reviewed the extensive damage in Mapleton, I expressed confidence that the communities affected by these storms would rebound and rebuild because of the resilience of the people within them. Hopefully, the resources made available by this declaration will further the efforts of those who are working to make their communities whole once again." Click here to view Iowa's House delegation letter to the President. #
05.04.2011	Congressman King: "We stand up to defend every voiceless, innocent miracle that's on its way into breathing free air in this country." Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 3, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. The legislation establishes a permanent, government-wide prohibition on subsidies for abortion and abortion coverage, codifies existing conscience protections with an added enforcement mechanism, and closes certain loopholes that give tax-preferred status to abortion. King spoke in favor of H.R. 3 on the house floor, and a video link to King's speech is embedded below. H.R. 3 passed the House on a vote of 251-175 this afternoon. An excerpt of Congressman King's remarks follows: "At the root of this issue is the question of what is human life, and is it sacred in all of its forms, and at what instance does it begin? And I think all of us with a conscience will recognize that human life needs to be sacred in all of its forms, and it begins at the instant of conception. Once we come to that conclusion, we stand up to defend every voiceless, innocent miracle that's on its way into breathing free air in this country." Prior to the vote, King distributed a "Dear Colleague" letter to Members of Congress encouraging them to vote in favor of H.R. 3. A copy of King's "Dear Colleague" letter urging support for H.R. 3 has been attached to this press release as a pdf file. #
05.03.2011	Congressman King votes to repeal ObamaCare provision granting HHS Secretary the authority to spend "infinite amount of money" Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 1213, legislation that repeals Section 1311 of the ObamaCare law. Section 1311 currently provides the Secretary of Health and Human Services with the authority to spend unlimited sums of money to establish state-based health insurance exchanges. Prior to voting in favor of H.R. 1213, Congressman King spoke on the House floor about the importance of repealing Section 1311. Video of King's remarks are below. H.R. 1213 passed the House this evening on a 238-183 vote. An excerpt of King's floor remarks follows: "H.R. 1213 doesn't address the $105.5 billion in automatic, irresponsible, unconstitutional spending. It addresses an open slot where the drafters of ObamaCare just simply overlooked writing a figure in when they granted this unlimited authority to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, to spend the amount of money that she sees fit to carry out the provisions of this section that is repealed by H.R. 1213. It wasn't just a blank check. It is a series of blank checks, in fact an infinite number of blank checks that an infinite amount of money could conceivably be written into. That's how bad this is. That's how unquantifiable it is. I know that CBO has attempted to put a number on it, but it requires some assumptions even to do that. The 112th Congress has been bound by the 111th Congress with this term we call 'mandatory spending.' I don't concede that there's anything such as mandatory spending in this Congress. No previous Congress can bind a subsequent Congress. This Congress has to approve all spending of every federal dollar before it can be expended and we need to stand on that principle." #
05.02.2011	11 Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Steve King and Senators Chuck Grassley and Tom Harkin wrote to the United States Postal Service to ask that the Postal Service make public the details of the Area Mail Processing (AMP) Study that is being used by the Postal Service to weigh a move of Sioux City's mail processing operations to Sioux Falls. The Congressman and Senators also asked that the Postal Service hold an additional public meeting once the AMP is released in order to give Sioux City's residents and community and business leaders the opportunity to offer informed input about the AMP study, its data, and its conclusions. The letter from the Congressman and Senators responds to an April 22nd letter to the elected officials from Marie Therese Dominguez, United States Postal Service Vice President of Government Relations and Public Policy. In her letter, Vice President Dominguez offered to meet with the Congressman and Senators to explain the methodology and findings of the Sioux City AMP study rather than release a copy of the study as they had requested. King, Grassley, and Harkin released the following statements about the letter sent today: Statement of Congressman Steve King: "The Siouxland Community cannot be expected to offer constructive input regarding the proposed consolidation of mail processing operations if they are not given any information about the rationale being used by the Postal Service to justify this move. Hundreds of concerned residents showed up at a town hall last week hoping to find out some details about the AMP study, but all they got was a lot of general talk about the Postal Service's need to cut costs and maximize efficiencies. I am certain that Sioux City's residents and community and business leaders can help the Postal Service come up with a rational proposal to cut costs and maximize efficiency in mail processing in northwest Iowa. To do so, however, they must have access to the facts, figures, and data." Statement of Senator Chuck Grassley: "The public meeting wasn't much more than window dressing by the Postal Service. If the Postal Service is sincere about wanting public input, it needs to be open and forthcoming about the rationale behind its proposal. Otherwise, there's nothing specific for the public to comment on and, in the end, the Postal Service won't have considered public input in a very meaningful way." Statement of Senator Tom Harkin: "Absent further details from the Postal Service regarding how it derived its supposed savings from the closure of the AMP, closure of the AMP would be irresponsible, costing Sioux City critical jobs and threatening to delay to delivery of mail to Iowans. Given recent job losses elsewhere in Sioux City, and the resulting economic impact, the Postal Service's attitude of "trust us" just isn't good enough. I'm proud of Sioux City's efforts to maintain the processing facility and to find reasonable ways to bring down costs without threatening the livelihood of dozens of Sioux City residents. At the first public meeting in Sioux City on the possible AMP closure, my office specifically requested a second meeting following the release of the study. This remains the proper course of action and I will continue to press the Postal Service for this public meeting." Click here to view the letter sent to Vice President Dominguez by the lawmakers. #
04.21.2011	GAO report provides new details on fiscal and social costs of criminal aliens Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after reviewing the results of a recently completed U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) report he requested detailing the extent of the criminal and fiscal burden placed on Americans by criminal aliens. The report analyzed the number and nationality of criminal aliens incarcerated in local jails and state and federal prisons; the types of offenses for which criminal aliens are arrested and convicted; and the costs associated with incarcerating criminal aliens. The GAO report may be viewed in full at this link. "The GAO report reveals that criminal aliens are imposing increasing social and fiscal costs on Americans," said King."Among the facts determined by GAO are: since 2005, the number of criminal aliens in federal prisons has grown 7%, while the number of SCAAP aliens in state prisons and local jails has increased 34%; that 50% of the criminal aliens studied by GAO have been arrested at least once for violent crimes like assault, homicide, robbery, sex offenses, and kidnapping; that from 2003-2009 the annual cost to state governments to incarcerate SCAAP criminal aliens increased 56% and totaled $7 billion; and that it costs the federal government an additional $1.6 billion a year to house criminal aliens in Bureau of Prisons facilities and to pay SCAAP reimbursements." "GAO also revealed that two-thirds of criminal aliens are born in Mexico, proving that we have to secure our southern border with a fence, a wall, and a fence. That would drastically reduce the ability of criminal aliens to enter the United States, providing needed relief to overburdened state prison systems and to taxpayers. We also have to do a better job of removing criminal aliens who are apprehended, and of preventing the re-entry into the country of those who are removed." As a matter of definition, the phrase "criminal alien" refers to non-citizens who are in the country legally or illegally when convicted of a crime. The term "SCAAP criminal alien" refers to non-citizens who have entered the country illegally and have at least one felony or two misdemeanor convictions and for whom state and local jurisdictions are eligible for federal reimbursement. Among the key findings of the GAO report are the following facts: #
04.19.2011	King's H.R. 140 closes birthright citizenship loophole Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after reviewing the results of a newly released public opinion poll which concludes that 61% of Americans oppose the granting of U.S. citizenship to the American-born children of illegal aliens. King has introduced legislation that is designed to end the current practice of granting automatic U.S. citizenship to the children of illegal aliens upon their birth in the country. King's legislation, the "Birthright Citizenship Act of 2011" currently has 73 cosponsors. "Americans want their borders secured, and they understand that the practice of granting birthright citizenship to the children of illegal aliens undermines border security by encouraging illegal aliens to sneak into the country," said King. "The current practice of granting birthright citizenship to the children of illegal aliens is not mandated by the U.S. Constitution. It is based on a misapplication of the 14th Amendment that needs to be addressed by Congress. We now know that 61% of Americans oppose the practice of granting birthright citizenship to the children of illegal aliens, and my legislation, H.R. 140, gives Congress the means to address this issue. It is important that Congress close the birthright citizenship loophole, and this high level of support makes it much more likely that Congress will." The poll, which was conducted by Rasmussen Reports, may be viewed online at this link. The 61% of Americans opposed to granting birthright citizenship to the children of illegal aliens is the highest figure recorded in the last five years. Only 28% of Americans believe that the current practice of granting birthright citizenship to the children of illegal aliens should continue. The text of King's legislation and the current list of cosponsors may be found at the following link. #
04.15.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a town hall meeting in Sheldon on Wednesday, April 20. The town hall meeting, which is open to the public and to the press, will be held at Northwest Iowa Community College. The one-hour event will begin at 10:30 AM and end at 11:30 AM (CST). “I am looking forward to hosting a town hall meeting in Sheldon on April 20," said King. "Town hall meetings are important because they allow me to hear directly from my constituents about the issues that are under consideration in Washington. I invite everyone who would like to join this discussion to come to Northwest Iowa Community College on Wednesday." 0 Sheldon Town Hall Schedule for Wednesday, April 20 0 Event is Open to the Public and to the Press 0 Event: Sheldon Town Hall Meeting w/ Congressman Steve King. Date: Wednesday, April 20, 2011 Time: 10:30 AM-11:30 AM (CST) Location: Northwest Iowa Community College Building A, Rooms 116-119 603 West Park Street Sheldon, IA 51201 0 For more information, please contact John Kennedy at 202-226-2384. 0 #
04.15.2011	Budget Plan Cuts $6.2 Trillion Dollars, Repeals and Defunds ObamaCare and Puts Country on Path to Pay Off National Debt Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after voting in favor of "The Path to Prosperity" budget plan produced by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI). Key elements of Ryan's FY 2012 budget resolution include: cutting $6.2 trillion in government spending over the next decade, repealing and defunding ObamaCare, paying off the nation's debt, eliminating hundreds of government programs, lowering tax rates, promoting the creation of over one million private-sector jobs, and reforming and strengthening Medicare and Medicaid to preserve their financial viability for current and future beneficiaries. In a separate vote, King also supported a budget proposal sponsored by the Republican Study Committee. This proposal makes more aggressive cuts to the federal budget, and brings the budget into balance by 2020. "Chairman Ryan deserves a great deal of credit for preparing a smart budget plan that recognizes the importance of repealing and defunding ObamaCare," said King. "In addition, this budget plan cuts government spending by $6.2 trillion dollars, and puts the nation on a path to pay off the national debt. Unlike President Obama, who would rather engage in negative campaign rhetoric than issue a serious proposal to address the fiscal crisis facing the nation, House Republicans are showing Americans that we are committed to making the tough choices that are necessary to bring our nation's books into balance." #
04.14.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed language he introduced to block the continued funding of ObamaCare. King's language blocks any funds contained within the FY 2011 continuing resolution from being spent on the implementation of ObamaCare, and it shuts off $105.5 billion in automatic appropriations for the law's implementation that were included in the ObamaCare legislation itself. "The House has now gone on record in support of my efforts to eliminate $105.5 billion in automatic appropriations built into ObamaCare," said King. "The funding prohibition passed by the House today would not only block funding contained within the FY 2011 continuing resolution from being spent on ObamaCare, but it would also shut off $105.5 billion in automatic funding for its implementation that was contained in the law itself. As I have long argued, blocking ObamaCare's automatic funding is necessary to prevent the Obama administration from putting the pieces of this unconstitutional law into place. It is important that the majority of Americans who support repealing and defunding ObamaCare know where their Member of Congress stands, and today's vote should make that clear." As background, on February 14, the Washington Times published an op-ed by Congressman King in which he called for the inclusion of language in the continuing resolution to block all funding for ObamaCare. With today's vote, the House has gone on record in support of King's initiative to defund ObamaCare. The vote on King's language took place as a result of the compromise that was struck last week by Speaker Boehner, Senator Reid and President Obama over legislation to fund the federal government for the remainder of the current fiscal year, FY 2011. The agreement provided for an up or down vote on King's language as an "enrollment correction" to the FY 2011 continuing resolution that the House passed earlier in the day. #
04.13.2011	Congressman King responds to President's speech on the debt Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement in response to the speech President Obama delivered today on the topic of the nation's debt and deficits. "It should be clear that President Obama doesn't view the nation's debt crisis as a problem to be solved, but as a tool to be used to advance his own reelection hopes," said King. "In one speech, the President managed to hit all the notes that his demoralized liberal base wanted to hear: he played the class warfare card, he endorsed cutting defense spending, he demagogued Paul Ryan's 'Path to Prosperity,' he touted the unconstitutional ObamaCare law, and he even blamed Bush for the nation's current debt problems. While the speech may excite some on the far-left, it should be viewed with disappointment by Americans who were hoping that the President would put politics aside to work on behalf of cutting spending and lowering the nation's debt." #
04.12.2011	13 Washington, DC - Congressman Steve King released the following statement and photo after hosting today's breakfast kickoff event for the Siouxland Chamber of Commerce. The Siouxland Chamber is in Washington, D.C. this week to speak with Members of Congress representing Iowa, Nebraska and South Dakota about a variety of important topics, including reducing the federal deficit, promoting greater economic development in the Siouxland region, and investing in transportation infrastructure. Congressman Steve King (center-front) stands with members of the Siouxland Chamber of Commerce in front of Iowa's statue of Samuel Kirkwood in the U.S. Capitol's Statuary Hall. 0 "The Siouxland Chamber of Commerce and I share the common goal of increasing economic development throughout western Iowa," said King. "They understand the importance of reducing the federal budget deficit, and they share my priority of strengthening the Siouxland's transportation infrastructure. I appreciate receiving the input of these local leaders, and I look forward to working with them to achieve these goals." 0 During this morning's breakfast, Congressman King received briefings from the following individuals: 0 • Gregg Grupp, Sioux City Community School District • Kyle Davis, MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company • Councilman John Fitch • Lance Hedquist, City of South Sioux City • Lance Ehmcke, Heidman Law Firm • Councilman Aaron Rochester • Ann Trimble-Ray, U.S. 20 Association • John Wagner, Wells Fargo Bank • Brenda Mainwaring, Union Pacific Railroad • Karen Van De Steeg, Health, Inc. • Rita Grimm, Heidman Law Firm 0 #
04.11.2011	10 Washington, DC - Today Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement regarding Saturday's tornado damage to Mapleton and other communities and farmsteads in western Iowa. Congressman King visited Mapleton yesterday to review the damage and speak with local officials. 0 Congressman Steve King (center) speaks after viewing storm damage in Mapleton. 0 "When I hear about tornados in Monona County, I am reminded of the tornado that struck the Little Sioux Boy Scout ranch, and I am grateful that this time we are all here to rebuild. Over 60% of Mapleton was damaged or destroyed and it's a miracle that there was no loss of life. Although there is a tremendous mess to clean up, and it will entail significant costs, at least we can take comfort in knowing that we are not mourning the loss of family and friends. 0 Mapleton has suffered significant damage, and so has the town of Early. I am confident that both communities will rebound and rebuild. I've spoken with the Governor, and I have every confidence that we will be using state and federal resources to the maximum extent possible to help the people of these communities whose lives have been torn apart." 0 #
04.11.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a town hall meeting in Council Bluffs on Monday, April 18. The town hall meeting, which is open to the public and to the press, will be held at the Iowa Western Community College Arts Center. The one-hour event will begin at 11:00 AM and end at 12:00 PM. 0 “I am looking forward to being in Council Bluffs on April 18th to meet with the people in the area," said King. "Iowa Western Community College's Arts Center is a great venue, and I encourage people to come out at 11:00 AM to join the town hall and to take part in the conversation." 0 Council Bluffs Town Hall Schedule for Monday, April 18 0 Event is Open to the Public and to the Press 0 Event: Council Bluffs Town Hall Meeting w/ Congressman Steve King. 0 Date: Monday, April 18, 2011 0 Time: 11:00 AM-12:00 PM (CST) 0 Location: Iowa Western Community College Arts Center 2700 College Road Council Bluffs, IA 0 For more information, please contact John Kennedy at 202-226-2384. 0 #
04.09.2011	Washington D.C. - Congressman Steve King (R-IA) issued the following statement regarding the deal that was reached to fund the operations of the federal government through the remainder of the current federal fiscal year, Fiscal Year 2011. "There is no question that the cuts offered in the forthcoming long-term CR are needed and are long overdue. We must get government spending under control and rein in our skyrocketing deficit. But, while $39 billion in cuts is better than the status quo, it's a long way from where we need to be," said King. "Today the American people were given a $39 billion cut in federal spending in exchange for continued funding for ObamaCare. For months I have said that the CR would be the key leverage point in the effort to stop the implementation of ObamaCare. I am disappointed that we have surrendered this leverage without taking a stand to shut off the funding for this unconstitutional law. We have now ceded a significant amount of ground on this issue, and I fear that we will find it difficult, if not impossible, to regain it any time soon." "More than $105 billion in automatic funding for ObamaCare is already on the books, and over $23 billion of this total is in the pipeline to be spent. Every day ObamaCare's roots reach deeper and deeper. In November, the American people charged us with stopping ObamaCare in its tracks, and today we made it much harder to do so." #
04.07.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting against legislation to provide one additional week's worth of funding for the federal government. As was the case with previous short-term continuing resolutions that King has voted against, the legislation voted on today did not contain language to cut off funding for ObamaCare. "Continuing resolutions should fund all legitimate government functions in a fiscally responsible manner. However, they should not allow ObamaCare to be funded," said King. "As I have pledged to do, I voted against today's one-week continuing resolution because it did not contain language to shut off funding for this law. As it stands now, over $23.6 billion in automatic funding for ObamaCare is already in the pipeline to be spent by the President to implement this unconstitutional law. Continuing resolutions give us the most leverage to block ObamaCare's funding, and I will continue to vote against them unless they contain language to defund it." #
04.04.2011	"It is time for Congress to repeal the costly Davis-Bacon law." Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today announced the results of a new Congressional Budget Office analysis of King's H.R. 745, the Davis-Bacon Repeal Act. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the enactment of King's legislation would reduce federal government costs by over $15.7 billion between 2011-2020. King's legislation currently has 46 cosponsors. "The Congressional Budget Office has confirmed that passing my Davis-Bacon repeal bill will result in over $15.7 billion in savings," said King. "Other reputable studies suggest that the cost savings from repealing Davis-Bacon would be substantially higher." "We have long known that Davis-Bacon is an antiquated law that burdens small business owners while protecting the interests of large, unionized companies. Thanks to the CBO, we also know that Davis-Bacon is responsible for billions of dollars in costs that the government cannot afford. It is time for Congress to repeal the costly Davis-Bacon law." Davis-Bacon requires federal contracts to contain 'prevailing wage' requirements. These requirements artificially inflate the cost of federal construction contracts and limit the ability of small businesses to successfully bid on public work projects. Repealing Davis-Bacon will allow every business, small or large, union or non-union, the ability to freely compete for federal construction projects and it will save billions right at the time we must cut billions. Tomorrow, Congressman King will be participating in a press conference to announce the launch of the Republican Study Committee's Repeal Task Force. Repealing Davis-Bacon is the first initiative being advanced by this working group. The press conference will be held at 1:15 PM at the House Triangle outside the U.S. Capitol. #
04.01.2011	Legislation ensures troops will be paid on time if government shuts down Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today attended a press conference held to announce the introduction of legislation that ensures that members of the United States Military will receive their pay on time in the event of a government shutdown. The legislation, the "Ensuring Pay for Our Military Act of 2011" was introduced by Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) and Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA). Congressman King is a cosponsor of the legislation. King's full statement can be viewed below. 0 King excerpt: "We cannot let our military have their pay checks shut off and be used as a tool, as a vehicle, to be leveraged politically when we're at war, especially. We need to stand with our military, our troops, and their mission." #
03.31.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement regarding the proposed congressional redistricting map that was revealed this morning. "Today, Iowans got a first look at what our state's congressional map may look like for the next ten years. Ultimately, it will be up to the legislature and the Governor to decide. I chaired the State Government Committee in the Iowa Senate ten years ago and managed the bill. I know that our legislature will work hard to ensure Iowans get the best representation possible in Congress and the General Assembly. It remains a privilege to serve the Fifth District in Congress, and I look forward to continuing my work in Congress in 2012 and beyond." #
03.29.2011	9 Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following photo and statement after meeting this morning with the Council Bluffs Chamber of Commerce to discuss local health, education, transportation, and economic development initiatives. From left to right: Becky Snedeker, Bob Mundt, Nancy Schulze, Dan Smith, Rep. Steve King, Don Gross, Dr. Dan Kinney, Greg Reeder, Sara Zach, Valerie Jensen "It is always a pleasure to meet with the Council Bluffs Chamber of Commerce," said King. "We share a desire to preserve southwest Iowa's reputation as an attractive place in which to live, to work, and to do business. I welcome their input, and I will continue to work with them to enhance economic development throughout the city and region." During the meeting, Congressman King received briefings from the following individuals: • Bob Mundt, President, Council Bluffs Area Chamber of Commerce• Dr. Dan Kinney, President, Iowa Western Community College• Don Gross, Director of Community Development, City of Council Bluffs• Dan Smith, Executive Director, Council Bluffs Airport Authority• Greg Reeder, Public Works Director, City of Council Bluffs• Valerie Jensen, Regional Administrator, Green Hills Area Education Agency• Nancy Schulze, Vice President, Iowa Professional Services Heartland Family Service• Becky Snedeker, Special Projects Liaison, Children's Square USASara Zach, Program Manager, FAMILY Inc. #
03.23.2011	On ObamaCare's first anniversary, King renews call for repeal Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement in conjunction with ObamaCare's first anniversary. On March 23, 2010, President Obama defied the wishes of the American people by signing the unconstitutional law. Since that time, opposition to ObamaCare has continued to grow, and a majority of Americans now strongly favors repealing the law. "After one year on the books, Americans have fully rejected ObamaCare, and they want the law repealed," said King. "In a recent poll, 62% of likely voters favored repealing ObamaCare, a ten-month high. In fact, a majority of likely voters, 51%, identify themselves as strongly favoring repeal. These numbers indicate what many of us already knew: Americans increasingly favor repeal, and their position is hardening." "On the first anniversary of ObamaCare, it is clear that Americans want this law repealed. I have not rested from this mission for the last 18 months, and I will keep my intensity up as long as necessary to put an end to this unconstitutional taking of American liberty." Congressman King has also written an op-ed discussing Americans' opposition to ObamaCare. The op-ed was published in today's edition of the Des Moines Register. #
03.23.2011	Congressman King Supports Placing Borlaug Statue in U.S. Capitol Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after attending the bill signing ceremony for a resolution which permits the placement of a statue of Dr. Norman Borlaug in the United States Capitol's Statuary Hall. The resolution was signed by Gov. Terry Branstad this afternoon. "Dr. Norman Borlaug's life serves as an inspiration not just for Iowans, but for all of humanity," said King. "His work sparked an agricultural revolution which helped to feed over one billion people in some of the most impoverished areas of the globe, a stunning scientific and humanitarian success by any measure. Dr. Borlaug is one of the transcendent figures in American science, and he is one of only five people who have ever earned the Nobel Peace Prize, the Congressional Gold Medal, and the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Placing his statue in the U.S. Capitol is a fitting honor." In February, Congressman King signed a letter sent by Iowa's Congressional delegation to Iowa's state legislative leaders urging them to consider a resolution to honor Dr. Borlaug in this manner. As the recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, the Congressional Gold Medal, and the Presidential Medal of Freedom, Dr. Borlaug is one of only 5 individuals to have received all three honors. The other members of this group include Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Mother Theresa, Nelson Mandela, and Elie Wiesel. As background, in 1864 the United States Congress passed legislation authorizing each state to place two statues of notable citizens on display in Statuary Hall. Iowa is currently represented by statues of Samuel Kirkwood and James Harlan. Kirkwood served as Iowa's governor during the Civil War, and as Secretary of the Interior. Harlan, who also served as Secretary of the Interior, served as a U.S. Senator from 1855-1865. #
03.22.2011	Ask USPS to meet with local leaders before moving ahead with study to move mail processing to Sioux Falls Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) today sent to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe a letter expressing their concerns that any new effort to consolidate Sioux City's mail processing operations into the Sioux Falls Processing and Distribution Center will bring about degradations in mail service that will adversely affect northwest Iowa. In light of these concerns, King, Grassley and Harkin are asking that the Postal Service's relevant district, area and headquarters personnel meet with Sioux City's community and business leaders and other stakeholders to address this and other issues before any further action is taken on the Area Mail Processing study. 0 Statement of Congressman King: "We've been down this road with the Postal Service before," said King. "Ultimately there were a number of questions about the rationale for the proposed consolidation that the USPS couldn't answer. I have similar concerns now, but I look forward to again working with Sioux City's business and community leaders and our congressional delegation to ensure that the interests of Siouxland's residents and businesses are fully accounted for in this process." 0 Statement of Senator Grassley: “The Postal Service has an obligation to conduct any review in a fair manner and listen and consider the views of the Sioux City community. We’re committed to making sure the door is open for the community to weigh in and to holding the post office accountable for the way it makes any decision impacting the processing center in Sioux City,” Grassley said. 0 Statement of Senator Harkin: “I am very concerned by this proposal, and strongly urge USPS to exercise caution in proceeding with any consolidation of operations in western Iowa. Five years ago, USPS proposed a similar shift, which would have had significant negative consequences for the community. Reliable mail service is important for the Siouxland’s businesses and residents, and the potential impact on the community should be fully taken into account before any further steps are taken.” The text of the letter follows: March 21, 2011 Mr. Patrick R. Donahoe Postmaster General & Chief Executive Officer United States Postal Service 475 L'Enfant Plaza, SW Room 10022 Washington, DC 20260-0010 Dear Postmaster General Donahoe, We have recently learned that the Postal Service is conducting an Area Mail Processing (AMP) study to examine possible consolidation of some operations from the Sioux City, IA, Processing and Distribution Facility into the Sioux Falls, SD, Processing and Distribution Center. We understand that the Postal Service is facing significant challenges in light of the current economic downturn and regularly declining mail volumes. It is necessary and proper for the Postal Service to continually assess its nationwide system of delivery and processing infrastructure to ensure it is well positioned to meet the demands of its customers. However, we have once before worked with the Postal Service and community and business leaders through a similar AMP examining the possible consolidation of some processing and distribution operations from Sioux City, IA, to Sioux Falls, SD. Having gone through this AMP process before only to learn that USPS would not, in fact, be consolidating operations in Sioux Falls, we are writing to ensure that the Postal Service has, in fact, taken into account all relevant criteria in choosing to move ahead with this new AMP study. In 2007 when the Postal Service last studied the possible move of processing operations from Sioux City to Sioux Falls, we, along with Sioux City's community and business leaders, never received sufficient assurances from the Postal Service that customers in the Siouxland area would not experience downgrades in mail service with a move of processing operations from Sioux City to Sioux Falls. Additionally, the additional costs resulting from greater distances for mail to travel, the adverse impact that late-arriving mail from Sioux City might have on the processing of outgoing mail, and the effect that the loss of Sioux City's docks might have on transportation called into question the case for such a move, which the USPS ultimately declined to pursue. Because these questions largely revolve around issues that will not change (distance between Sioux City and Sioux Falls and differences in the physical plant resources of each facility), we are concerned that any new effort to consolidate will ultimately bring about degradations in mail service that will adversely affect our constituents in northwest Iowa. Consequently, before any additional action is taken regarding the Sioux City AMP study, we ask that the Postal Service's relevant district, area, and headquarters personnel meet with business and community leaders and stakeholders from Sioux City to ensure that these concerns are fully understood and taken into account. These individuals will be visiting Washington, DC, and available to meet during the week of April 11th. Thank you for your attention to this very important matter. Sincerely, Congressman Steve King Senator Chuck Grassley Senator Tom Harkin #
03.17.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after introducing H.R. 1093, the "Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives Reform Act of 2011." The legislation reforms badly broken regulations which currently allow the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (BATFE) to place unnecessary burdens on firearms dealers, law-abiding gun owners, and federal agents. King introduced the legislation with Rep. Jason Altmire (D-PA). "Modernizing federal firearms regulations is necessary because the existing regulatory scheme undermines our Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms," said King. "H.R. 1093 makes significant improvements to BATFE's enforcement regulations that will allow the agency to perform its mission in a manner that upholds the constitutional rights of Americans." The National Rifle Association has announced its support for King's legislation. Chris Cox, Executive Director of the NRA's Institute for Legislative Action issued the following statement following the bill's introduction: "HR 1093 is a comprehensive reform bill that makes permanent several important appropriations funding restrictions that prevent law-abiding gun owners from unknowingly winding up in a federal gun registration database," said Cox. "This bill is a major step towards modernizing and improving BATFE's overall operations by compelling the bureau to focus their resources on targeting those who willfully violate the law while protecting the rights of law-abiding gun owners and retailers. For example, while current law does not make the necessary distinction between serious criminal violations and minor clerical errors, this bill corrects that inequity by creating a fair system in which firearms dealers with minor paperwork errors are not threatened with the loss of their livelihoods. NRA would like to thank Rep. King for his leadership on this pro-law enforcement bill." Today, for most violations, BATFE has only two choices for reprimanding a Federal Firearms License (FFL) holder: issue a warning or revoke his or her license. This means FFL holders must operate their business under such strict scrutiny that their licenses can be threatened with revocation for minor violations such as the improper use of abbreviations or the filing of records in the wrong order. King's legislation would provide greater flexibility to this system by allowing fines or license suspensions for less serious violations, while permitting license revocation for serious violations. Additional reforms made by King's legislation include: • Directing that the number of warnings, suspensions, revocations, or amounts fined shall not be a factor in firing, promoting or transferring agents. • Clarifying the standard to be used for determining willful violations of law. • Ending the BAFTE regulation requiring border state gun dealers to report the sale of multiple firearms with a caliber .22 or larger and a removable clip. • Directing that a suspension or fine be vacated if a court determines a licensee did not willfully violate the law with attorney's fees awarded to cleared defendants. • Easing the restrictions on the importation of replacement parts for semiautomatic rifles. • Banning the creation of a centralized electronic database out of business dealers' records. # 0 0 0
03.16.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting against the three-week continuing resolution considered by the House of Representatives today. Although the House passed the resolution, 54 Republicans voted against the measure, a sharp increase from the 6 Republicans who voted against the two-week CR passed on March 1. "As I pledged to do, I voted against today's continuing resolution because it did not contain language that would prevent over $105.5 billion in automatic appropriations for ObamaCare from being spent on implementing the unconstitutional law," said King. "I will continue to vote against CR's that lack such language." "It was interesting to see the sharp increase in the number of Republicans who voted against this short-term CR. Many of my colleagues share my concerns about ObamaCare's automatic funding provisions, and they voted 'No'. Others feel similarly strongly about the CR's failure to include language that cuts off federal funding for Planned Parenthood, and they also voted 'No.'" "Americans want ObamaCare defunded, and they do not want their tax dollars used to subsidize abortions. We must restore their confidence in this Congress, and we can begin to do so by including language to eliminate ObamaCare's $105.5 billion automatic appropriations and to defund Planned Parenthood in any future CR's." #
03.16.2011	5 Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following photo and statement after meeting today with representatives from the Iowa Lakes Corridor to discuss opportunities for increased economic development in the region. Attendees at today's meeting included Kathy Evert, President of the Iowa Lakes Corridor Development Corporation and Reynold Peterson, Mayor of Spencer. The Iowa Lakes Corridor includes Buena Vista, Clay, Dickinson and Emmet counties. From left to right: Jesse Fagen, Mayor Reynold Peterson, Kimala Peterson, Congressman Steve King, Kathy Evert, Shaun Arneson, Mark Stevens, Jacob Bossman, King's District Representative Andrea Easter and Bob Fagen. "It is important that we take steps to spur economic development in the Iowa Lakes Corridor region," said King. "One of the projects we discussed is the need to complete four-lane Highway 20 across northwest Iowa, a project which is one of my top transportation priorities. I appreciate the input I received from these local leaders, and I will continue to work with them to meet northwest Iowa's transportation and infrastructure needs." #
03.11.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) and Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK) released the following statements after introducing legislation in their respective chambers to establish English as the official language of the United States government. The legislation, the English Language Unity Act of 2011, requires all official functions of the United States to be conducted in English, establishes a uniform language requirement for naturalization, and places an obligation on representatives of the federal government to encourage individuals to learn English. In the House of Representatives, King's bill is designated H.R. 997. Senator Inhofe's bill is designated S.503. Statement of Congressman King: "A common language is the most powerful unifying force known throughout history," said King. "We need to encourage assimilation of all legal immigrants in each generation. A nation divided by language cannot pull together as effectively as a people." Statement of Senator Inhofe: "This legislation will provide much-needed commonality among United States citizens, regardless of heritage," Inhofe said. "As a nation built by immigrants, it is important that we share one vision and one official language." Both King and Inhofe have been champions of promoting English as the official language for the United States, having previously introduced this legislation in 2009. In addition, as a member of Iowa's Senate, King led the successful effort to enact legislation establishing English as Iowa's official language. #
03.10.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement in response to Speaker Boehner's announcement that the House General Counsel has been directed to intervene in pending court cases to defend the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). "President Obama's decision to abdicate his executive branch responsibility to defend DOMA is a constitutional outrage," said King. "DOMA is an important law that seeks to preserve the traditional definition of marriage as a union between one man and one woman. President Obama's decision to abandon the law is yet another example of his willingness to politicize the Department of Justice on behalf of favored interest groups." "Speaker Boehner's decision to involve the House of Representatives in the legal defense of DOMA is the right one, and I support it," King continued. "Since the House will now be incurring legal expenses related to the defense of the law, I intend to offer an amendment that will defund the Department of Justice by a comparable amount. The DOJ should not receive funding for work that it is refusing to do." Congressman King has also expressed his support for the Defense of Marriage Act by cosponsoring a Congressional resolution introduced by Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) that condemns the Obama administration's decision to order the Department of Justice to end its legal defense of DOMA. Rep. Hartzler's resolution has been designated H. Con. Res. 25. #
03.10.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) and Congresswoman Michele Bachmann (R-MN) released the following pledge to House Republican Leadership calling for all $105.5 billion in automatic appropriations to ObamaCare to be struck by the FY11 CR. King and Bachmann call upon all Members of the U.S. House of Representatives to sign onto the pledge to vote "NO" on any continuing resolution proposal that does not include language that cuts off the automatic funding that was written into ObamaCare by the Pelosi Congress in 2010. #
03.09.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today encouraged American taxpayers to visit the "It's All Your Money" online calculator created by Fox News. The calculator allows Americans to determine their individual share of the $105 Billion included as automatically appropriated funds in the unconstitutional ObamaCare law. The online calculator bases its results on Congressman King's analysis of a Congressional Research Service report detailing the automatic funding provisions buried within ObamaCare. "While working to repeal and defund ObamaCare, I introduced legislation to the continuing resolution that sought the elimination of $105 Billion in automatic funding contained within the law," said King. "Now, Fox News has used my work to create a useful calculator that Americans should use to determine how much Congress's failure to block this money will cost them on an individual basis. I believe that when Americans learn how much they are being asked to spend on this unconstitutional law, they will demand that Congress take action to block these funds from being spent." The "It's All Your Money" calculator may be accessed at the following web address: http://www.foxnews.com/topics/calculator/mandatory-funds-in-health-care-law.htm After determining their individual share of the automatic funding in ObamaCare, visitors to the site can vote on whether they support or oppose the law. At the time of this release, 93% of those voting were opposed to ObamaCare. #
03.04.2011	Congressman King recognized for work on behalf of 24th Street Bridge in Council Bluffs Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after being honored as a "Champion of Transportation" by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and AAA. King received the honor for working on the federal level to advance the reconstruction of the 24th Street Bridge in Council Bluffs. Nancy Richardson, Director of the Iowa Department of Transportation, presented King with a framed photo of the 24th Street Project during an award ceremony in Washington D.C. "It is an honor to be recognized as a 'Champion of Transportation' for my work to promote transportation improvements in Council Bluffs," said King. "Improving the Interstate system in and around Council Bluffs is essential because it will help to promote continued economic growth and development in this important hub of commerce in southwestern Iowa. The reconstruction of the 24th Street Bridge is a significant component of these ongoing efforts." #
03.02.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting against H.J. Res. 44, legislation providing a two week extension of funding for continued government operations. Unlike the long-term continuing resolution previously passed by the House, the two week extension King voted against today does not contain important legislative safeguards blocking federal spending on ObamaCare and Planned Parenthood. "I voted against the two week continuing resolution because the legislation does not contain important amendments already passed by the House that defund ObamaCare and Planned Parenthood," said King. "The votes to defund ObamaCare and Planned Parenthood were principled votes, and the House should stand by them. By leaving these amendments out of this short term continuing resolution, the House is simply rewarding Democrats for their threats to shutdown the government." #
03.01.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after meeting with Governor Terry Branstad this morning. During the meeting, Branstad provided King with a briefing on the current state of Iowa's budget. The two leaders also spoke about a number of pending matters affecting Iowa on both the state and federal level. "Governor Branstad and I had a productive conversation that touched on many of the state and federal issues currently facing Iowa," said King. "His experience has allowed him to take charge immediately, and I am confident that Iowans are being well served by his leadership. I am actively working with the Governor to tackle the serious issues facing both the state and the nation." #
02.18.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed two amendments he introduced prohibiting the use of federal funds contained in the continuing resolution for FY 2011 to implement and enforce ObamaCare. The first King amendment, #267, prohibits any funds contained within the continuing resolution from being used to carry out ObamaCare's provisions. As an additional fail-safe to prevent ObamaCare's enforcement and implementation, the second King amendment, #268, prohibits any funds contained within the continuing resolution from being used to pay the salary of any officer or employee of any federal department or agency who attempts to implement ObamaCare. "It makes no sense for federal funds to be spent on a law that Americans have rejected, that the House has voted to repeal, and that two federal courts have ruled unconstitutional," said King. "By passing my defunding amendments, the House of Representatives has taken another important step toward uprooting the law from the U.S. Code." King's amendments were added to H.R.1, the continuing resolution that provides funding for government operations. Earlier this year, the House of Representatives passed language King authored to repeal ObamaCare "as if such Act had not been enacted" as a component of H.R.2, the Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act. Language similar to King's amendment #268 was also added to the continuing resolution by the House through an amendment offered by Rep. Dennis Rehberg (R-MT), the Chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over much of ObamaCare.
02.04.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve King (IA-5) released the following statement after returning from a trip to the United States border with Mexico in which he reviewed and assessed the infrastructure and technologies being employed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to combat illegal immigration. Congressmen Phil Gingrey (GA-11), Ed Royce (CA-40) and Steve Pearce (NM-2) also travelled with King to the U.S. Mexico border. "This visit to the border allowed me to review the resources deployed and practices being used to combat the drug cartels and illegal immigration," said King. "In order to secure the border, we need to: build a fence, a wall, and a fence; stop the bleeding at the border; force all traffic through our ports of entry; end sanctuary cities; and shut off the jobs and welfare magnets. Some conditions have improved but drug smuggling and violence are on the rise. We can achieve operational control of the border, and we can begin to do so by effectively prioritizing how we will use our law enforcement assets." In addition to his statement, King also released the following photos from his trip. The photos embedded in this release may be accessed at Congressman King's Flickr Photostream. ###
02.03.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after the Senate failed to pass an amendment offered by Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) that would have attached the House passed ObamaCare repeal bill to the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill. The House passed bill contains King's language providing for the full repeal of ObamaCare "as if such Act had not been enacted." "The Senate vote reveals that the House of Representatives needs to place a funding ban on ObamaCare's implementation and enforcement in every spending vehicle that comes up, beginning with the continuing resolution," said King. "While all 47 Republicans in the Senate voted in favor of the House passed repeal language I introduced, this total was not enough to meet the 60 vote procedural objection Senate Democrats raised. In the short-term, the House needs to protect its strong position on repeal by blocking any funding from going to this unconstitutional law." #
02.03.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he has contacted Secretary Kathleen Sebelius of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) after learning that Planned Parenthood clinics in Iowa are using telehealth videoconferencing methods to dispense the dangerous abortion drug RU-486 in violation of FDA guidelines. King's letter to Sebelius, signed by 71 Members of Congress, requests information regarding both the extent of federal funding received by abortion providers for use in telemedicine and also the steps the Department of Health and Human Services has taken to ensure that taxpayer money is not being used to facilitate "telemed abortions." "RU-486 is a dangerous drug that has been associated with at least 11 deaths and thousands of cases of excessive bleeding and infection," said King. "Evading FDA guidelines by dispensing RU-486 through telemedicine has the potential to increase complications and fatalities associated with its use. We cannot allow taxpayer dollars to be used to support 'telemed abortions.'" The text of King's letter follows: February 3, 2011 The Honorable Kathleen Sebelius Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Sebelius, It has come to our attention that Planned Parenthood clinics in Iowa are using telemedicine or telehealth videoconferencing methods to dispense mifepristone, the abortion drug commonly known as RU-486, to patients without having a doctor present. We are concerned that this practice of "telemed abortions" may have received taxpayer funding and we are concerned that similar programs may receive taxpayer funding in the future, despite federal laws that prohibit taxpayer funding for abortion. If federal dollars are used for telemed abortions, it would make American taxpayers complicit in underwriting the destruction of innocent unborn children and supporting organizations that endanger women's lives and health by intentionally circumventing FDA guidelines for dispensing RU-486. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires that RU-486 "be provided by or under the supervision of a physician who meets the following qualifications: ability to assess the duration of pregnancy; ability to diagnose ectopic pregnancies; ability to provide surgical intervention in cases of incomplete abortion or severe bleeding..." We believe dispensing RU-486 via telemedicine violates FDA protocols and puts women's safety and health at risk. According to the Associated Press, the manufacturer of RU-486, Danco Laboratories, says "it [RU-486] is effective about 95 percent of the time, with surgical procedures needed in most of the other cases to end the pregnancy or stop heavy bleeding."[1] Planned Parenthood, quoting the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists acknowledges, "about 92 percent of women will complete their [RU-486 induced] abortion without the need for a vacuum aspiration,"[2] meaning nearly one in ten women who take RU-486 will require surgical intervention by a doctor to complete the abortion. A doctor dispensing RU-486 over the internet from a location hundreds or even thousands of miles away is clearly unable to provide surgical intervention in cases of severe bleeding. RU-486 is a dangerous drug that has been associated with at least 11 deaths and thousands of cases of excessive bleeding and infection. Evading FDA guidelines by dispensing RU-486 through telemedicine has the potential to increase complications and fatalities associated with its use. We cannot allow taxpayer dollars to be used to support telemed abortions. Most recently, in Fiscal Year 2010, Congress provided the Department of Health and Human Services' Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) with $11.6 million for its telehealth program. While telemedicine may be a positive means of providing certain health services, abortion is not healthcare, and dispensing RU-486 without a doctor present is both risky to the mother and deadly to the unborn child. U.S. taxpayers should not be forced to underwrite abortions, nor should Americans' tax dollars be used to circumvent FDA guidelines regarding RU-486. We are particularly concerned that affiliates of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA), the largest abortion provider in the United States, may be receiving federal funding and using federally funded equipment to facilitate telemed abortions - meaning federal taxpayers are funding abortions. It has come to our attention that: • Planned Parenthood of Utah is listed as a grant recipient in the HRSA 2007-2008 Office for the Advancement of Telehealth Grantee Directory; • Planned Parenthood of the Heartland in Iowa is known to provide telemedicine RU-486 abortions; • Planned Parenthood clinics at 10 locations in Wisconsin received a federal grant to pay for telemedicine video phones which cost $15,000 each[3]; • PPFA Vice President Dr. Vanessa Cullins said "There are many [PPFA] affiliates that are carefully considering [telemed abortion][4];" and • A June 2009 report by Tides and the California Endowment wrote of the ‘unprecedented opportunity' due to ‘new funding for health-information technology at the federal level,' listing nine California Planned Parenthoods as ‘community clinics' for which telemed grants might be available."[5] In light of these concerns, we respectfully request a response to the following questions no later than February 28, 2011: 1. In total, how much federal funding has been appropriated for telemedicine and what portion of those funds have been used to purchase telemedicine equipment? 2. Have any additional funds other than those described in question (1) been used to fund telemedicine? (E.g. have funds that were not specifically designated for telemedicine been used to support telemedicine.) 3. Has the Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA), its affiliates, or clinics received any telemedicine funding? If so, please provide a list of PPFA affiliates and clinics that received funds for telemedicine and indicate the amount of funding provided to each. (Include both primary grantees and subgrantees.) 4. Have any other facilities that perform abortions received telemedicine funding? If so, please provide a list of the facilities and indicate the amount of funding provided to each. (Include both primary grantees and subgrantees.) 5. Has the Department of Health and Human Services taken any measures to ensure that federal funding for telemedicine and equipment is not used to facilitate telemed abortions? If so, please provide a copy of any memos or guidance issued to safeguard against taxpayer funding for telemed abortion. We appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to your response. #
01.31.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after United States District Court Judge Roger Vinson struck down ObamaCare in its entirety. Vinson ruled today that the "individual mandate" provision of the law is unconstitutional and that since it cannot be severed from the rest of the law, the entire act must fall. "Two weeks ago, the House of Representatives passed language I authored repealing ObamaCare 'as if such act had not been enacted,' and now Judge Vinson has similarly ruled that the entire act must be struck down," said King. "Today's ruling is important not only because it backs up the earlier decision in Virginia declaring the 'individual mandate' to be unconstitutional, but also because it goes one step further by declaring all of ObamaCare to be void. Many of us opposed ObamaCare in part because of our oath to the Constitution. Any member who had reservations should now be empowered to vote with those of us who will cut off all funding to ObamaCare starting with the continuing resolution." #
01.26.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after joining with his colleagues in the Iowa Congressional delegation to co-host a Medal of Honor Recognition Ceremony for Staff Sergeant Salvatore Giunta this afternoon. Giunta, a native of Hiawatha, Iowa, was awarded the Medal of Honor in November for displaying exceptional courage and valor while serving in Afghanistan. During the ceremony, the Iowa delegation presented Staff Sergeant Giunta with a Joint Resolution they introduced honoring his service. The Chief of Staff of the Army, General George Casey, also served as a co-host of the Medal of Honor Recognition Ceremony. "The resolution that we presented to Staff Sergeant Giunta honors his service and sacrifice and encourages Americans to recognize the heroism he has displayed," said King. "When Americans learn about Staff Sergeant Giunta's heroic acts under enemy fire in Afghanistan, they will understand why Iowans take such pride in our native son. It was a privilege to join in this ceremony with my colleagues to extend our thanks to Staff Sergeant Giunta for his service to the country." #
01.25.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after attending the State of the Union address this evening. "The President talked about expanding 'investments' in some things such as education and infrastructure but the word 'investments' is still the word that means 'spending,'" said King. "The President has proven beyond a doubt that his huge Keynesian economic experiment has failed. The economic stimulus plan failed. He's still trying to spend more money. We need to take the shovel out of the President's hands and stop his spending."
01.24.2011	Congressman King makes prediction during remarks at today's 38th Annual March for Life Rally Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after addressing the 38th Annual March for Life rally this afternoon. The March for Life is held each year to encourage Congress to enact pro-life legislation and to petition the Supreme Court to overturn the Roe v. Wade decision legalizing abortion. After addressing the rally, Congressman King hosted a reception in the Rayburn House Office Building for Iowans who had travelled to Washington to participate in the March for Life. "For 38 years Americans have come here to pray and march for life," said King. "Thomas Jefferson said a generation is 19 years; that's two generations of Americans that have been here. Millions of Americans come here, make friends, march, pray for life, and deploy back across America to do the same. Because of the dedication of these generations of Americans, I am confident that we will see the end of Roe v. Wade in our time."
01.19.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to pass his language repealing ObamaCare this afternoon by a vote of 245 to 189. King’s language to repeal the law “as if such Act had not been enacted” was included by House Leadership in H.R. 2, the Repealing the Job Killing Health Care Law Act. “When ObamaCare passed, I made a pledge to work to uproot the law from the U.S. Code. To fulfill this promise, I drafted and introduced language to repeal ObamaCare ‘as if such Act had not been enacted.’ Today, the House of Representatives passed this language, and we are one step closer to fully repealing the law,” said King. “Today’s historic vote was made possible because Americans have consistently demonstrated both resolve and fervor for repeal. In fact, Americans even elected 87 new Republicans to the House of Representatives to provide repeal supporters with the reinforcements we needed to answer their calls for repeal.” “Today’s repeal vote represents not only a promise kept, but also the beginning of the end of ObamaCare itself. I will continue to work for ObamaCare’s repeal until this unconstitutional law is no longer on the books.” During the House debate over the repeal legislation, Congressman King spoke several times on the House floor in favor of repeal. Videos of Congressman King’s statements are available on his YouTube channel, and they are linked here and here for your convenience. #
01.18.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after hosting a press conference this afternoon in which 530,000 petitions calling for the repeal of ObamaCare were presented to Members of Congress. The petitions were collected by the grassroots organization “Repeal It Now.Org” and were delivered to King and several of his colleagues by the organization’s Chairman, Ken Hoagland. The press conference was held the day before the House of Representatives is scheduled to vote on King’s ObamaCare repeal language. Jenny Beth Martin, National Coordinator of the Tea Party Patriots, also attended the press conference to display additional grassroots support for King’s effort to repeal ObamaCare. “Today, we received petitions from over 500,000 Americans asking that ObamaCare be repealed, and tomorrow the House will vote on my language to repeal the law,” said King. “When the House votes to repeal ObamaCare tomorrow, it will do so in large part because the American people have consistently and correctly demanded that Congress uproot the law from the U.S. Code.” #
01.14.2011	Congressman Steve King (R-IA), announces that he will be hosting a press conference on Tuesday, January 18 in which he and several of his House colleagues will be accepting delivery of hundreds of thousands of petitions Americans have signed demanding the repeal of ObamaCare. King’s press conference is being held the day before the House of Representatives is scheduled to hold a historic vote on repeal language he has authored to uproot the unpopular and unconstitutional health care law from the U.S. Code. The petitions will be delivered by Ken Hoagland, Chairman of Repeal It Now.org, a grassroots organization dedicated to repealing ObamaCare. Jenny Beth Martin of the Tea Party Patriots will also be attending the press conference to display additional grassroots support for ObamaCare’s repeal. The Press Conference Schedule is as follows: Tuesday, January 18, 2011 Event: Receipt of Petitions Calling for ObamaCare Repeal Who: Congressman Steve King and House Colleagues* Ken Hoagland, Chairman, Repeal It Now.org Jenny Beth Martin, Tea Party Patriots *Expected attendees include Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-MN), Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Rep. John Carter (R-TX), Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX), Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM), and Rep. Tom Price (R-GA) Time: 3:00 PM EST Location: House Triangle, U.S. Capitol #
01.14.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement following today’s announcement that the House of Representatives will hold a vote on King’s ObamaCare repeal language next week. King’s language will be brought to the floor by House Majority Leader Eric Cantor as part of H.R. 2, the Repealing the Job Killing Health Care Law Act. The House will take up the repeal legislation next Tuesday after having temporarily suspended legislative activities out of respect for the victims of the recent shootings in Arizona. “The House will vote next week on my ObamaCare repeal language,” said King. “By the end of next week, we will have passed my language repealing ObamaCare ‘as if such Act had not been enacted,’ and Americans will be one step closer to seeing their calls for the total repeal of the law answered.” “The effort to repeal ObamaCare will not end with this vote,” King continued. “Repeal efforts will continue until the law is fully uprooted from the U.S. Code. By passing my repeal language as one if its first acts, the House will ensure that momentum for repealing ObamaCare will continue to build.” #
01.08.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after United States Representative Gabrielle Giffords was shot during a public event in Tuscon, Arizona today. “My prayers continue to be for Gabrielle Giffords, her family, her staff, and all those that are in agony today,” said King. “We serve together and she is outgoing, personable and widely respected. It is inconceivable that anyone could harbor a vile, vindictive or malicious attitude towards her. I will continue to pray for her swift recovery and for the recovery of all those injured in this tragedy.”
01.07.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) and Congresswoman Michele Bachmann (R-MN) released the following joint statement after introducing legislation on the first day of the 112th Congress which would fully repeal ObamaCare. The bill is officially designated as H.R. 141. Congressman King and Congresswoman Bachmann’s joint statement follows: “We are introducing this bill to renew the commitments that we made to our constituents and to the American people that we would work to repeal ObamaCare until the day that the unconstitutional law is scrubbed from our books. While we both expect to celebrate the passage of an ObamaCare repeal bill in the House of Representatives next week, we understand that the effort to repeal the bill does not end with that vote. In fact, it is possible that the effort to fully repeal ObamaCare will not be successful until America has a President who is willing to sign a repeal bill into law. Since ObamaCare was passed, the cost of healthcare has gone up for the private sector and the government. Employers who are facing skyrocketing health insurance premiums are waiting to hire, dropping health coverage and even laying off workers. The President’s own Medicare actuary says that under ObamaCare national healthcare spending will increase by $310 billion over the next ten years. These consequences demonstrate the urgency for repealing ObamaCare. We have worked together to kill ObamaCare and we have pushed hard to force a vote on its repeal. It is important to the repeal effort that we jointly introduced a stand-alone, 100% repeal of ObamaCare on the opening day of the new Republican majority to keep faith with those who share our call to uproot ObamaCare from the U.S. Code.” #
01.07.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after the House voted today to pave the way for a vote on ObamaCare repeal legislation on Wednesday, January 12. The legislation incorporates Congressman King’s ObamaCare repeal bill and will be offered by Republican Leader Eric Cantor. “When ObamaCare passed, I introduced a bill that provided for the full repeal of ObamaCare as if ‘such act had not been enacted,’” said King. “Today, the House voted to bring that language to the floor for a vote. I look forward to this historic House vote in support of my repeal language, and I will continue to work on ObamaCare repeal until the day ObamaCare is finally and fully uprooted from the U.S. Code.” #
01.06.2011	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Congressman Phil Gingrey (R-GA), Congressman Gary Miller (R-CA) and Congressman Rob Woodall (R-GA) released the following statements after introducing legislation to end the practice of automatically granting American citizenship to “Anchor Babies” born in the United States to illegal alien parents. The legislation is officially designated as H.R. 140, the “Birthright Citizenship Act of 2011.” Statements of Congressman King, Congressman Gingrey, Congressman Miller and Congressman Woodall follow: Congressman King : “The current practice of extending U.S. citizenship to hundreds of thousands of ‘Anchor Babies’ every year arises from the misapplication of the Constitution’s citizenship clause and creates an incentive for illegal aliens to cross our border. The ‘Birthright Citizenship Act of 2011’ ends this practice by making it clear that a child born in the United States to illegal alien parents does not meet the standard for birthright citizenship already established by the Constitution. Passage of this bill will ensure that immigration law breakers are not rewarded, will close the door to future waves of extended family chain migration, and will help to bring an end to the global ‘birth tourism’ industry.” Congressman Gingrey : “Throughout my time in Congress, combating illegal immigration has always been a high priority of mine. Addressing the birthright citizenship issue needs to be at the forefront of this effort, and I am pleased to advance this initiative with my colleagues. I will continue working on this - and several other measures - to stem the overwhelming tide of illegal immigration in this country.” Congressman Miller: “It is unfair to grant birthright citizenship to children of illegal immigrants because it undermines the intention of the Fourteenth Amendment, rewards those that have recklessly broken our nation’s immigration laws, and costs American taxpayers billions annually. By simply closing this loophole, we will save taxpayers billions and reduce the appeal of entering the United States illegally. This bill simply makes sense.” Congressman Woodall: “Representative King is absolutely right with the introduction of this birthright citizenship legislation, and I am very proud to join him as an original co-sponsor on this bill. This Congress must take bold steps to solve our illegal immigration crisis. An important part of immigration reform must be removing the incentives that are in place encouraging illegal immigration. Representative King’s bill is a good step in that direction.”
12.17.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after voting against an $850 billion tax and spend deal brokered by President Obama and Senators Harry Reid and Mitch McConnell in the last days of the Lame-Duck Pelosi Congress. “On November 2nd, the American people rejected back room deals and Christmas tree bills designed to buy the votes of Congressmen,” said King. “Hopefully, this is the last we will see of Congress giving in to President Obama’s redistributionism.” “I am for making the ’01 and ’03 tax rates permanent. I am for ending the death tax. I am for the tax credits that support our renewable fuels industry and for a producer-designed, planned transition to industry independence. I am for ending the AMT.” “But I am opposed to borrowing hundreds of millions of unbudgeted dollars to hand out as transfer payments under the guise of refundable tax credits. I don’t agree that we should raid the Social Security Trust Fund or set the precedent that changes the payroll tax formula. Too much of the spending in this bill is a renewal of parts of Obama’s failed stimulus plan.” “I have co-sponsored a clean bill that we can pass in the House and send to the Senate and that will be supported by the new Congress - which is the legitimate voice of the American people.”
12.15.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration, released the following statement after learning that United States Border Patrol Agent Brian A. Terry had been killed in the line of duty. Agent Terry was shot and killed after an encounter with several suspects in southern Arizona late Tuesday night. “My prayers go out to the immediate family of Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry who are surely grieving the loss of their loved one today,” said King. “My thoughts also extend to Agent Terry’s family of fellow Border Patrol Agents who put their lives on the line every day. Agent Terry’s death is a grim reminder of the fact that their lives are also at constant risk until this nation gains operational control of the border.” “We cannot lose sight of the mission to enforce our borders. Neither can we ignore the fact that this is a very personal and painful loss for both the Terry family and also for those with whom Agent Terry served. It is our duty to bring Agent Terry’s killers to justice and to successfully carry out the mission for which Agent Terry gave his life.” #
12.15.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement expressing his opposition to repealing the law banning openly homosexual men and women from serving in the nation’s armed forces. The House of Representatives staged a vote on repeal legislation this evening. Congressman King voted against repealing “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.” “‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ has turned out to be an effective policy that has helped to preserve military readiness, and it should not be repealed,” said King. “I have heard from service members, both past and present, who are adamant that repealing ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ will undermine unit cohesion and will adversely affect the military’s effectiveness. To change the policy at a time when American troops are deployed abroad under hostile fire is an irresponsible act.” “The fact is that the current military policy is working and should be left alone. Unfortunately, the liberal leadership of the lame-duck House of Representatives has decided that the military culture that has served Americans so well is in need of radical social engineering. As far as I’m concerned, Americans would be better served if Congress focused on repealing ObamaCare instead of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’” #
12.13.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement after learning that Federal District Judge Henry E. Hudson has ruled ObamaCare’s requirement that Americans purchase health insurance or pay stiff fines to the IRS, the so-called “individual mandate,” unconstitutional. “With Judge Hudson’s decision, a federal court has now ruled in accordance with what I have always said: ObamaCare’s requirement that Americans purchase health insurance or pay a fine is unconstitutional,” said King. “ObamaCare’s ‘individual mandate’ always rested on the absurd premise that the Commerce Clause empowered the federal government to regulate Americans’ decisions not to engage in commercial activity. Adoption of such an argument would have vested the federal government with the power to regulate virtually every aspect of Americans’ lives, and Judge Hudson remained true to the Constitution by rejecting this argument and striking the individual mandate down. With the ‘individual mandate’ that lies at the heart of the legislation ruled unconstitutional, the badly-flawed ObamaCare law is now completely dysfunctional, further accelerating the need for Congress to repeal it.” #
12.08.2010	The American people have spoken, and the message they sent to Washington D.C. is clear: Americans want Obamacare ripped out of the US Code by the roots. With their actions, America’s voters have shown that they want the 112th Congress to make Obamacare repeal a reality. In fact, a strong case exists that the historic gains made by Republicans on Election Day were driven primarily by the American public’s determined desire for Obamacare repeal. Consider the following facts: · An exit poll conducted by Rasmussen Reports indicates that 59% of those who voted favor repealing Obamacare, including 48% of voters who strongly favor repeal. · As reported by Roll Call newspaper on December 3rd, even Democratic Senator and Obamacare supporter Chuck Schumer believes that when voters went to the polls in November “voters did say ‘repeal health care’”. · Sarah Palin’s “Take back the 20” effort targeted 20 House Democrats who had voted for Obamacare. After the votes had been counted, 18 of these Democrats had been defeated. · National Review reports that 32 House Democrats who voted for Obamacare lost, while many of their successful Republican challengers made Obamacare repeal a cornerstone of their campaigns. · 65% of Oklahomans and 55% of Arizonans simultaneously voted in favor of state referendums protecting their state’s citizens from Obamacare’s mandate that individuals purchase government-sanctioned health insurance. None of these results comes as a surprise to those of us who have been active in the effort to repeal Obamacare. The election results are simply the manifestation of what we have been hearing in town-hall meetings since the legislation was forced through Congress by the leftist trio of President Obama, Speaker Pelosi and Senator Reid. Having been entrusted with control of the House of Representatives, how should Republicans address the public’s unquestionable call for repeal? The answer is simple: Republicans should prove we have heard America’s message by making the passage of a clean, stand alone, 100% Obamacare repeal bill the top priority in the new Congress. Republicans can align themselves with the voting public by quickly adopting two positions that will show the public we are serious about repealing Obamacare. We must begin by making a clean Obamacare repeal bill the first piece of legislation introduced and passed in the new session of Congress. The virtue of a “clean repeal” bill is obvious: it allows all Americans favoring repeal to successfully unite around a common goal. Repealing Obamacare is a difficult task even as a united team; we certainly don’t need to hamper our efforts at the beginning by drafting a clumsy “repeal and replace” bill which can only divide repeal proponents into smaller groups with conflicting “replacement” policy preferences. I have drafted a clean, 100% repeal bill which has garnered the support of House Republicans. This legislation, H.R. 4972, could serve as the basis for a clean, 100% repeal bill in the 112th Congress. In fact, 173 Members of Congress have already signed a discharge petition I introduced that would have forced an up or down vote on this bill. The second thing that Republicans need to do is to lay the groundwork for defunding any and all efforts to implement Obamacare. Thankfully, the American people delivered the House of Representatives into Republican hands, giving Obamacare opponents the power of the purse. Americans expect the new Congress, bolstered by new members who made Obamacare repeal the hallmark of their campaigns, to oppose the legislation with every tool at our disposal. Not only should Republicans in the House zero-out any Obamacare related item in the budget, we should further protect our efforts from Democrats in the Senate by including language in every appropriations bill we pass explicitly barring any money allocated therein from being spent on implementing or enforcing any part of Obamacare. On this latter point, we know full well that President Obama will do whatever he can to preserve the socialized health care system that now bears his name. This means that he will not only threaten to veto any successfully passed repeal bill, but that he may even threaten to shut down the government by refusing to sign individual appropriations bills that contain anti-Obamacare language. If Republicans include spending prohibitions in every appropriations bill, we will ensure that the President will have to explain to the American public why he places a greater priority on protecting the unpopular Obamacare bill than on ensuring the regular functioning of government. That is a political argument President Obama cannot win, and the election results of November 2nd should quell any doubts about who the public will side with should such a scenario unfold. By returning the House of Representatives to Republican control, the American people have clearly expressed a desire to turn Obamacare repeal into a legislative reality. It is time for Republicans to validate this faith by making clean, stand alone, legislation that repeals 100% of Obamacare the top priority of the 112th Congress. # Note: This article was originally published on the Fox News Website at http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2010/12/08/america-wants-congress-repeal-obamacare-time-work/
12.08.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration, today issued the following statement after the lame duck Democratic majority passed the DREAM Act amnesty legislation this evening. The controversial DREAM Act amnesty bill passed on a 216 to 198 roll call vote. Congressman King voted against the legislation. “The passage of the DREAM Act amnesty bill in the House of Representatives is an illegitimate act of a repudiated and rejected lame duck Congress,” said King. “Lame duck sessions of Congress should not be used to move large and controversial agenda items like the DREAM Act amnesty bill. The fact that the outgoing Democratic leadership in the House is subverting the Rule of Law by rewarding millions of illegal aliens for their presence in the country is an act of spite aimed at America’s voters. Americans should insist that the United States Senate restore legitimacy to the remaining days of the 111th Congress by preventing this nightmarish DREAM Act amnesty legislation from becoming law.” #
12.06.2010	President Obama and the liberal open-border leadership of the Democratic Party are pushing for passage of legislation granting amnesty to millions of illegal aliens. They are doing this despite the fact that this costly legislation will make a difficult job market worse, will place a higher tax burden on Americans, will ensure greater difficulty in balancing budgets on the state and federal level, and will undermine respect for our nation’s immigration laws. -- Congress should wake up from this nightmare by defeating the DREAM Act. In November, voters’ concerns about the weak economy and the poor job market contributed to the election of a large Republican majority in the House of Representatives. Voters understand, even if the Democratic leadership doesn’t, that granting amnesty to millions of illegal aliens will make it even more difficult for unemployed Americans to find work. With the unemployment rate at 9.8 percent the last thing American job hunters need is millions of DREAM Act amnesty recipients competing with them for work. The DREAM Act not only undermines economic opportunities for Americans, it also makes it less likely that either state governments or the federal government will bring their budgets into balance. The Center for Immigration Studies (CIS) has released a report indicating that this amnesty bill will cost state and local taxpayers over $6.2 billion annually, not per decade as Congressional budgets are calculated, because state universities and local community colleges will be forced, by law, to grant illegal aliens in-state tuition discounts. The DREAM Act does not provide federal funding to cover these costs, meaning Americans will be required to pay higher taxes and higher tuition rates. Providing facts about tuition fees provides insight into the magnitude of this unjust benefit being given to illegal aliens under the DREAM Act. At the University of Iowa, an in-state resident attending the College of Business pays $3,894 per semester while an out-of-state resident pays $12,068 per semester. At Iowa State University, an in-state resident pays $3,566 per semester to attend the College of Business, while an out-of-state resident pays $9,347. Other public universities show similar multipliers. In fact, in the University of California system, in-state residents pay no tuition at all, while out-of-state residents pay a non-resident tuition fee that costs $22,021 per year at all University of California campuses. This tuition treatment creates a moral conundrum for DREAM Act supporters. What does one say to the widow or widower who has lost their husband or their wife in Iraq, or the child who lost their mother or father in Afghanistan, who is paying out-of-state tuition premiums while they are sitting at a desk next to someone who has received amnesty and a de facto scholarship under the DREAM Act? Further, the deficit spending federal government will face huge spending increases under the DREAM Act. When amnesty proponents point to a recent Congressional Budget Office (CBO) analysis to claim that the DREAM Act has a short-term positive effect on budget deficits, they do so in an attempt to distract American taxpayers from the long-term negative effects on the budget that are much more pronounced and severe. CBO found that deficit spending on welfare programs would increase by at least $5 billion, and possibly much more, after 2020 as a result of granting DREAM Act amnesty. As bad as the costs revealed by the CIS and CBO analysis are, it is likely that they are vastly understated because each analysis was based on the assumption that 1.1 million illegal aliens would receive DREAM Act amnesty. Other versions of the legislation currently before Congress (there are 4 versions that the Democratic leadership is circulating to confuse the issue for voters) are estimated to grant amnesty to over 2.1 million illegal aliens. Further, neither analysis includes the estimated impact of the costs to be incurred by the “backdoor amnesty” the bill provides for the family members of illegal aliens. Many do not realize that illegal aliens who receive amnesty under the bill become eligible at the age of 21 to sponsor members of their family for citizenship too. The cost of “chain migration” will be enormous. There is also an additional cost for passing amnesty. It is the cost incurred when respect for the Rule of Law is undermined. It has been 24 years since a “one time only” amnesty bill was signed into law and, millions upon millions of illegal border crossings later, it is clear that the 1986 legislation only served as an incentive for further lawbreaking. In addition, since the DREAM Act prevents the federal government from deporting anyone who applies for amnesty under it, anyone who can sneak into the United States and file a DREAM Act application will have an automatic and legal stay of deportation until the already overloaded courts can make a decision.-- The result will be millions of bogus DREAM Act filings and the function will be a de facto visa to stay in the United States. The DREAM Act is an amnesty bill that America cannot afford. It is unjust to those who have played by the rules in order to come into the country legally, and it is unjust to American taxpayers who will be asked to shoulder the costs of rewarding illegal immigrants for ignoring the law. Americans should demand that it be defeated.
12.03.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration, issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an analysis showing that the illegal alien amnesty bill known as the “DREAM Act” will increase federal spending and deficits by billions of dollars if it becomes law. A report prepared by the Center for Immigration Studies claims that passage of the DREAM Act would have a similar negative effect on state and local government budgets. “With the release of the CBO report, we now have two studies showing that the DREAM Act will break budgets on both the state and federal level,” said King. “These budget-busting numbers occur even though amnesty advocates scaled back the scope of the legislation.” “On Tuesday, the Center for Immigration Studies (CIS) released a report showing that giving in-state tuition discounts to illegal aliens under the DREAM Act will place an annual cost of $6.2 billion on state and local taxpayers. These costs will not be subsidized by the federal government, meaning that the bill sends a multi-billion dollar unfunded mandate to the states that will result in tuition increases, tax increases, or both.” “Yesterday, the CBO report revealed that, beginning in 2021, federal deficits would swell by at least $5 billion as those who received amnesty gain access to federal welfare programs. What’s worse, CBO has suggested this number could rise well beyond their published estimate.” “Taken together, these two studies show that providing illegal aliens with amnesty under the DREAM Act places a costly burden on federal, state and local taxpayers. The DREAM Act amnesty bill is a nightmare for Americans who want the federal government to balance its budget, and it will result in Americans paying higher taxes and tuition fees.” #
12.01.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement after the lame duck Congress passed legislation appropriating $1.15 billion to fund the controversial and fraud-plagued Pigford settlement program. Although estimates suggest that the total universe of black farmers who could qualify for Pigford compensation only encompasses 18,000 people, over 94,000 people have submitted claims under the program. The Pigford funding request was included in H.R. 4783, the Claims Resolution Act of 2010, which passed the House of Representatives on a 256-152 vote yesterday afternoon. Congressman King voted against the legislation. “The unaccountable lame duck Congress has irresponsibly voted to spend $1.15 billion on a Pigford settlement program that is severely compromised by fraud,” said King. “This means that people who have never farmed and people who have never been discriminated against by the USDA will be receiving tens of thousands of dollars in cash and debt relief simply for having filed a false claim. By ignoring Pigford fraud, Congress has allowed the program to change from one designed to address black farmers’ discrimination claims to one that now serves as a modern day slavery reparations program. The American people should be outraged by this vote and the new Congress should make an investigation of Pigford fraud a top priority.” #
12.01.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement after writing the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to request the release of its current scoring of the DREAM Act. Press reports indicate that Senate Democrats may be blocking a release of the score to cover-up the true costs of the legislation to the public. At least one published report suggests that CBO has scored the DREAM Act, legislation which rewards a defined class of illegal aliens with amnesty, as carrying a $20 billion cost. “There are reports that Senate Democrats are covering-up an analysis showing that granting illegal aliens amnesty under the DREAM Act will cost upwards of $20 billion,” said King. “If these reports are true, Democrats are willfully misleading Members of Congress, and the American public, about the costs of their open-borders agenda in order to secure support for their controversial amnesty legislation.” “Since Congress may vote on the DREAM Act as early as tomorrow, I have contacted CBO’s Director, Douglas Elmendorf, to request that he release the current scoring of the bill prior to Congress voting on the matter. Democrats know that the American public will not tolerate the passage of a $20 billion giveaway program for illegal aliens, and Democrats should not be allowed to conceal a score they don’t like. CBO has a responsibility to ensure that Members of Congress have the information they need to make an informed vote on the legislation, and should release their current analysis of the DREAM Act immediately.” #
11.30.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement after an amendment he offered to prevent an additional $1.15 billion from being spent on the fraud-riddled Pigford settlement program was blocked from further consideration by the Rules Committee. King’s amendment to H.R. 4783, the Claims Resolution Act of 2010, sought to delete bill language appropriating $1.15 billion for the controversial Pigford settlement program. The House Rules Committee blocked King’s amendment from further consideration on Monday night. “The unaccountable lame duck Congress is preparing to put Americans on the hook for an additional $1.15 billion in spending on a Pigford II settlement program that is rife with fraud despite the fact that current law caps the amount to be spent on these claims at $100 million,” said King. “To make matters worse, the Democrats who temporarily control the Rules Committee will not even allow my amendment protecting taxpayers from this excessive and fraudulent spending to be presented on the House floor for a vote. By cutting off consideration of my amendment, and by refusing to investigate serious allegations of Pigford fraud prior to voting on legislation allocating an additional $1.15 billion to the program, the lame duck Congress is, in effect, enabling Pigford fraud and this calls for an investigation by the 112th Congress.” #
11.24.2010	The Orlando Political Press writes: "...The Congressman from Iowa is as intelligent as any Ivy Leaguer, has a tireless work ethic forged in the heartland of America and brings a down to earth, common sense approach to legislating. A staunch conservative that understands the real issues behind illegal immigration, King believes in the enforcement of our immigration laws. He’s a strong supporter of securing our borders and eliminating the incentives that draw illegals to our country. King doesn’t buy into the fallacy that these individuals are only taking jobs that Americans will not take and he supports legislation that would ban birthright citizenship, known as anchor babies..." Read more at the following link: http://www.orlandopoliticalpress.com/2010/11/24/rep-steve-king-to-lead-committee-governing-immigration-policy/
11.16.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement congratulating United States Army Staff Sergeant Salvatore Giunta of Hiawatha, Iowa for receiving the Medal of Honor. Giunta was presented with the Medal of Honor during a ceremony King attended at the White House this afternoon. The Medal of Honor, the nation’s highest military commendation, is awarded to military personnel who have displayed exceptional valor in combat. Staff Sergeant Giunta is the first living recipient of the Medal of Honor since the Vietnam War. “Staff Sergeant Salvatore Giunta’s heroic actions in Afghanistan have made him a deserving recipient of the Medal of Honor,” said King. “Leaving the protection of cover to charge into enemy fire is not an instinctive act. Staff Sergeant Giunta’s decision to do so was driven by his selfless concern for the well-being of his fellow soldiers. Giunta’s courageous action saved the lives of two members of his squad and prevented a third member from being taken captive. I salute Staff Sergeant Giunta for earning the Medal of Honor, and I join my fellow Iowans in expressing gratitude for the extraordinary bravery of our native son.” #
11.10.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement thanking our nation’s veterans for their service to the country. King also announced that on Veterans Day he will be participating in ceremonies marking the dedication of a new VA Clinic at St. Anthony Hospital in Carroll, Iowa.“Every Veterans Day provides Americans the opportunity to reflect on how much is owed to the brave men and women who answer their nation’s call to arms,” said King. “The liberties and the freedoms we cherish as Americans exist today because of the tremendous sacrifices America’s veterans have made in their defense. I offer my sincerest salute to America’s military veterans, and I encourage every American to offer their gratitude and thanks to those who have served, and to those who currently serve, in the Armed Forces of the United States.” #
11.05.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement in response to election results and preparation for the 112th Congress. “The Republican Conference Chair needs to be the best communicator we have. Mike Pence is our best communicator and Michele Bachmann is a very close second who has the ability to become even more effective than Pence. Michele has charisma and she brings with her an impressive skill set. She embodies the agenda of the constitutional conservatives. Constitutional Conservatives are the majority makers, the conscience of America and the new agenda setters." “We need a conference chair with her style. Michele is intellectually brilliant, a very quick study, and philosophically sound. She has a high national profile and has boldly overcome every obstacle put in her path,” said King. “Just two years ago, Chris Matthews launched a viral attack on Bachmann and Speaker Pelosi flew to Minnesota with a million dollars to use against her. Bachmann took on that challenge and today teases Chris Matthews about the ‘tingle down his leg’ as Pelosi cleans out her desk.” “With this reminder of Michele’s strengths and communication style, I strongly encourage you to support Michele Bachmann as the next Chair of the House Republican Conference.” ###
11.05.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement in response to Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi’s decision to run for House Minority Leader. “Today, Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi announced she would run for Minority Leader of the House of Representatives for the 112th Congress. The first image that comes to my mind is her carrying the oversized gavel in a ‘let them eat cake’ moment. This moment is no longer existent for her or the Members of Congress who walked the plank with her two years ago. Their absence in the new Congress should be a louder message to her to reconsider stepping down.” “If Pelosi assumes this leadership role, then President Barack Obama should forget about being re-elected in 2012. The progressive Democrats, Senator Reid, President Obama, and Congresswoman Pelosi need to remember that their progressive agenda didn’t work these past two years; the American people have spoken.” ###
10.22.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement in response to National Public Radio (NPR) terminating the contract of senior news analyst Juan Williams. NPR fired Williams shortly after an appearance on Fox News Channel’s “The O’Reilly Factor” in which Williams spoke candidly about the apprehension he feels while on airplanes with individuals dressed “in Muslim garb.” “NPR fired Juan Williams for expressing something that is a visceral fear that most everyone feels when they get on an airplane,” said King. “However, Jesse Jackson remains in NPR’s good graces despite once saying ‘there is nothing more painful to me at this stage in my life than to walk down the street and hear footsteps and start thinking about robbery—then look around and see somebody white and feel relieved.’” “Why does NPR apply one standard to Jesse Jackson and another standard to Juan Williams?” #
10.20.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration, today issued the following statement after learning that lawmakers in 14 states are drafting legislation to end the practice of granting automatic American citizenship to the children of illegal aliens who are born on American soil. “Because the 14th Amendment has been misconstrued, current law inappropriately gives American citizenship to the children of illegal aliens solely because their parents were able to cross our borders illegally and give birth here,” said King. “As a result of this perverse incentive, an entire ‘anchor baby’ industry has developed which exploits a legal loophole caused by a misinterpretation of the Constitution. Many of these illegal aliens are giving birth to children in the United States so that they can have uninhibited access to taxpayer funded benefits and to citizenship for as many family members as possible.” “I am encouraged by the fact that 14 states are now taking action to address the problem of ‘birthright citizenship’ for the children of illegal aliens. American immigration law should not create incentives for people to enter our country illegally.” #
10.19.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), today issued the following statement after the United States Treasury Department reported that President Obama's spending policies have added $3 trillion dollars to the nation's debt in the 21 months since he was inaugurated. With the addition of Obama's $3 trillion in new debt, the overall debt of the federal government is now $13.666 trillion. This burden means that babies born in America now owe the federal government $44,231 each. "President Obama's out-of-control spending policies are burdening Americans at an unprecedented pace and must be stopped," said King. "In just 21 months, President Obama has added $3 trillion to the national debt. In comparison, it took 214 years for the United States to first rack up a debt total of $3 trillion. President Obama has Americans in a very deep hole and he's still digging. A new Congress must take the shovel out of his hands." "President Obama and the Pelosi Congress have proven they would rather accelerate the pace of spending than control it. Americans are justifiably concerned about the rapid accumulation of national debt and are demanding that Washington rein in spending before our children's futures are mortgaged forever." #
10.12.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement after United States District Judge Virginia Phillips issued a worldwide injunction preventing enforcement of the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy. Phillips’ decision overturns a law enacted by Congress, and signed by President Clinton, which prohibits openly homosexual individuals from serving in the military. Unless the Department of Justice appeals the decision, Judge Phillips’ unilateral decision will stand as the final word on the matter. “Judges in this country are out of control, whether they sit on the federal bench or on Iowa’s Supreme Court,” said King. “Today’s ruling by Judge Phillips is just the latest in a line of decisions in which judges have implemented their own policy preferences at the expense of the Constitution, American citizens, and the Rule of Law.” “In Iowa, the seven members of Iowa’s Supreme Court overturned the state’s law recognizing marriages as an institution only between one male and one female. Earlier this year, a federal judge single-handedly invalidated California’s voter-enacted Proposition 8, which banned same-sex marriage within that state. Today, a different federal judge unilaterally issued a worldwide injunction that prevents the military from enforcing the Congressionally passed ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ law.” “These decisions share a common trait: in order to advance the politically correct ‘gay-rights’ agenda, the rogue judges involved ignored both the expressed will of the people and of the legislative bodies that have examined the issue. In Iowa the Supreme Court even bragged that their reading of the Iowa constitution included ‘rights’ that ‘were at one time unimagined.’ Judges should not be rewarded for flagrant disregard of the Rule of Law and the American people should respond by pursuing avenues which would result in the removal of lawless judges from the state and federal bench.” #
10.08.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement after the United States Department of Labor released figures showing that the American economy has shed jobs for the fourth straight month. Today’s job numbers reveal that the economy shed 95,000 jobs in September and that the unemployment rate remained an unacceptably high 9.6% “Today’s disappointing job report is just the latest piece of evidence showing Americans that the Obama administration’s budget-busting, tax and spend policies are failing,” said King. “September marks the 14th consecutive month that unemployment has been above 9.5%, the longest streak since the Great Depression. The President’s policies are extending America’s economic slump.” “Since President Obama was sworn in the number of Americans on food stamps has increased over 30%. Americans want an economy that promotes job creation, not welfare dependence, and they are not getting it from either this President or from the policies his party is advancing in Congress. Passing legislation that would prevent the largest tax-increase in history from taking effect on January 1st should be a priority for this Congress.” #
10.06.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement after being honored with the “A in English” award from U.S. English, Inc. for his efforts to make English the official language of the United States. With 1.8 million members throughout the United States, U.S. English, Inc. is the nation’s largest citizen advocacy organization working on behalf of efforts to promote the adoption of English as the official language of the United States. Among the factors considered by U.S. English, Inc. in determining which Members of Congress would receive the coveted “A in English” award was whether Members had cosponsored HR 997, the “English Language Unity Act” which was introduced by Congressman King. The “English Language Unity Act” seeks to establish English as the officially recognized language of the United States and requires official business of the federal government to be conducted in English. Congressman King’s bill currently has 137 bipartisan cosponsors. As a Member of the Iowa State Senate, Congressman King led the effort to pass the legislation designating English as Iowa’s official language. In 2008, King won a lawsuit he filed against Governor Culver and Secretary of State Mauro which ended their practice of illegally publishing voter registration forms and absentee ballot application forms in languages other than English on the Secretary of State website in violation of Iowa’s English law. #
10.04.2010	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement after being honored with the “Ione Dilley Founders Award” by the Iowa Faith & Freedom Coalition. The award was presented to Congressman King by Steve Scheffler, President of the Iowa Faith & Freedom Coalition in recognition of King’s work in defense of faith, freedom, life, family and Biblical values. The “Ione Dilley Founders Award” is presented annually to the Iowan who most effectively defends and promotes the values of “Faith & Freedom.” 0 Congressman Steve King receives the “Ione Dilley Founders Award” from the Iowa Faith & Freedom Coalition. Pictured from left are Ralph Reed, National Chairman of the Faith & Freedom Coalition, Congressman Steve King, Congressman Tom Latham, and Steve Scheffler, President of Iowa Faith & Freedom Coalition “It is an honor to receive the ‘Ione Dilley Founders Award’ from the Iowa Faith & Freedom Coalition,” said King. “The Iowa Faith & Freedom Coalition understands, like our Founding Fathers understood, that our rights come from God not government. There are thousands of Iowans striving diligently every day to refurbish the beautiful marble pillars of American Exceptionalism who are also deserving of recognition. I dedicate this award to them for their selfless and often unrecognized efforts to make Iowa an even better place to raise a family. When young people are taught from an early age about the rights and responsibilities to life and liberty and the value of family and freedom, with the Lord’s help, the rest will take care of itself.” #
09.30.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today welcomed Principal Deidre Drees of Missouri Valley and Cardinal Community School District Superintendent Joel Pedersen of Eldon to Washington D.C. Mrs. Drees was honored by the School Administrators of Iowa as “Principal of the Year” for her work at Missouri Valley High School. Mr. Pedersen was similarly honored by the SAI for work undertaken at his previous position as Principal of Davis County Middle School. 0 Congressman King (center) meets with Missouri Valley High School Principal Deidre Drees (left) and Cardinal Community School District Superintendent Joel Pedersen (right) in his Congressional office. “It was a pleasure welcoming Principal Drees and Superintendent Pedersen to Washington,” said King. “During our meeting, Principal Drees and Superintendent Pedersen impressed me with their commitment to maintaining a first-rate learning environment for our students in Iowa. It is apparent to me that the School Administrators of Iowa selected two worthy recipients for the title of ‘Principal of the Year.’” Missouri Valley High School is located in Harrison County, placing it within the 5th Congressional District represented by Congressman King. Davis County Middle School is located within the 2nd Congressional District. #
09.28.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King today announced that he has nominated Charles and Julie Lamb of Council Bluffs to receive the “Angels in Adoption” award presented by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute. The CCIA is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the millions of children around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes. Since 2006, the Lambs have opened their home to serve as foster parents for 36 children, 80 percent of whom have been successfully reunited with their families. In addition, the Lambs have adopted 3 children, including 2 with special needs, and are planning on adopting 3 more children before the end of the year. “Charles and Julie Lamb’s dedication to making the lives of western Iowa’s children better is exemplified by the manner in which they have repeatedly opened both their home and their hearts,” said King. “Like guardian angels, the Lambs have taken dozens of children under their wing and their efforts have resulted in the successful reunification of numerous families. Their community has been strengthened through the good works of the Lambs, and I am very pleased to be able to nominate them for the title of ‘Angels in Adoption.’” The CCIA’s “Angels in Adoption” program allows Members of Congress to honor individuals or entities that have made extraordinary contributions on behalf of children in need of homes. The Lambs will be in Washington D.C. during the first week of October to be formally recognized as “Angels in Adoption” by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute. #
09.24.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law today issued the following statement regarding the decision made by Chairwoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) to hold a hearing to promote the mistaken belief that illegal immigrant farm workers should be given amnesty because Americans will not do that type of labor. Committee Democrats weakened the already dubious premise for this hearing by inviting Comedy Central comedian and television personality Stephen Colbert to serve as an “expert witness” at the hearing. Colbert’s “expertise” on the subjects of agriculture and immigration law consists primarily of his having spent one afternoon on a farm in order to film a brief segment for his nightly show. “Amnesty supporters frequently claim that Americans won’t do hard work, a claim which is insulting,” said King. “Maybe amnesty supporters should spend less time watching Comedy Central and more time considering all the real jobs that are out there that require hard labor and don’t involve sitting behind a desk. If they did, they would realize that every day American workers perform the dirtiest, most difficult, most dangerous jobs that can be thrown at them.” “American workers will do any job and outwork anyone else on earth. The reality is employers hire desperate aliens who will work for much less than Americans, driving wages down and making it impossible for American workers to compete. Unless our immigration laws are enforced, American workers and families will continue to be undermined.” #
09.24.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), a Member of the House Agriculture and House Judiciary Committees, has written Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to request a meeting next week to discuss allegations of serious fraud in the disbursement of Pigford v. Vilsack settlement money. Pigford v. Vilsack is the class action lawsuit initiated by black farmers who claimed to have been discriminated against by the United States Department of Agriculture. King’s request was mailed to Secretary Vilsack this afternoon. “There is a growing firestorm over the allegations of massive fraud in the Pigford settlements,” said King. “According to sworn testimony by John Boyd, President of the National Black Farmers Association, there are 18,000 black farmers. They could not all have been victims of discrimination. To date, there have been over 94,000 claims made. These numbers speak to massive fraud, meaning that American taxpayers are on the hook for what Pigford judge Paul Friedman called ‘forty acres and a mule.’” “It is common practice for Secretaries of Agriculture to sit down with members of the Agriculture Committee. It is uncommon for the topic of conversation to be as urgent and expensive as Pigford, with a price tag of $2.3 billion. Secretary Vilsack has an obligation to the American taxpayers to cooperate with an investigation of Pigford fraud.” “The Senate may be poised to pass the Obama administration’s request for additional Pigford funding. Pigford payouts must be stopped until Congress and the USDA can conduct a thorough investigation.” #
09.23.2010	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement after being named a “Guardian of Small Business” by the National Federation of Independent Business. Congressman King received the NFIB’s “Guardian of Small Business” award from NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner this morning. “I am honored to be named a ‘Guardian of Small Business’ by the National Federation of Independent Business,” said King. “Small businesses need lower taxes and regulatory relief if they are to continue to serve as the job-creating engine of our economy. Being named a ‘Guardian of Small Business’ is a reflection of my commitment to reducing the burden that Washington places on small businesses, so that all Americans can benefit from a stronger economic climate.” “I would also like to commend the NFIB for their early recognition of the many problems that ObamaCare poses for small businesses,” King continued. “I am collecting signatures on discharge petition #11 to force a vote on my bill to fully repeal ObamaCare. Repealing ObamaCare is one of the most beneficial acts that Congress could take on behalf of small businesses, and I will continue to lead the charge for repeal.” During the presentation ceremony, NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner praised Congressman King’s voting record as a record that reveals a strong commitment to “standing up for small business.” #
09.23.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement regarding the six month anniversary of the passage of ObamaCare. Congressman King is the lead sponsor of Discharge Petition #11, which would force an up or down vote on the repeal of ObamaCare once it is signed by 218 Members of Congress. To date, the petition has been signed by a bi-partisan group of 173 Members. “It has been six months since the Democrats passed ObamaCare over the wishes of the American people,” said King. “Speaker Pelosi once said that Congress had to pass ObamaCare so that Americans would know what was in it. Americans have now had six months to review this unconstitutional legislation, and the majorities seeking repeal continue to grow.” “In the six months since ObamaCare passed, over 20 states have filed lawsuits challenging the law. Voters in Missouri have passed a state law protecting themselves from ObamaCare’s unconstitutional ‘individual mandate.’ A recent survey by Rasmussen Reports concludes that 61% of the American public wants ObamaCare repealed.” “Americans should urge their representatives to sign Discharge Petition #11 and should also insist that Members of Congress pledge to withhold funding for ObamaCare’s implementation in future Congresses.” #
09.22.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) was a featured speaker this morning at a symposium held by the United States Department of Agriculture. Congressman King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, was invited to discuss current legislative trends affecting livestock producers. During his remarks, Congressman King criticized efforts by the current liberal leadership in Congress to increase the regulation of agricultural producers on behalf of an environmental agenda. Congressman King speaks at USDA Symposium on “Future Trends in Animal Agriculture” “Congressional liberals are pushing for increased regulation of agriculture in order to further an environmental agenda,” said King. “In some instances, they have even excluded the House Agriculture Committee from considering legislation that would impact the way farmers and ranchers raise their livestock. This approach means that decisions affecting agriculture are being driven by people with an agenda that seeks not to promote agriculture, but to curtail it.” “America’s agricultural producers deserve better than that. Legislation that affects agriculture should go through the Agriculture Committee, where people with a rural background and an understanding of how food in America is produced can evaluate it. A regulatory scheme cooked up on the streets of San Francisco will do little but harm producers in Iowa who, if left alone, will produce safe, nutritious food in a competitive way.” #
09.17.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), a member of the 10th Amendment Task Force, today issued the following statement commemorating the 223rd anniversary of the signing of the United States Constitution by delegates to the Constitutional Convention. Constitution Day occurs on September 17th, marking the anniversary of the day in 1787 that 39 delegates to the Constitutional Convention signed the document that both established the framework of American government and also secured the basic, God-given rights that Americans enjoy. “Events occurring on September 17, 2010, underscore the importance of the Tenth Amendment. Today’s federal government has become so brazen that it claims the ability to penalize Americans for failing to purchase government approved health insurance, a power the Constitution’s drafters never sanctioned. It is the Tenth Amendment that stands in the way of these kinds of attempted power grabs by the federal government, and as Americans celebrate the anniversary of the Constitution’s signing they should also celebrate the inclusion of this important protection against government overreach.” #
09.17.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King has released the following statement in support of the Veterans Affairs Department’s decision to locate a new Veterans’ Community Based Outpatient Clinic at St. Anthony Hospital in Carroll, Iowa. “The VA has wisely chosen to locate its new VA clinic at St. Anthony Hospital. The Carroll community and the providers, administrators, and staff at St. Anthony have made significant investments in the hospital in recent years, and the veterans who will be making regular visits to the new clinic will be the beneficiaries of many of the improvements that have been made,” said King. “St. Anthony Hospital has served as an important anchor in the Carroll community for decades, and it makes sense for the VA to turn to it to facilitate the opening of a new clinic to better serve the many veterans who live in the area. In the past few years, I’ve worked with the VA to increase Fifth District veterans’ access to health services through the establishment of new VA clinics in both Spirit Lake and Shenandoah. Setting up this new clinic in Carroll will make it even easier for western Iowa’s veterans to get the care they were promised. It has been a privilege to be part of the process and the credit goes to St. Anthony's administration and staff. I’m pleased the VA has finally put its stamp of approval on this proposal. Congratulations to our veterans, St. Anthony's and the Carroll community. I look forward to the ribbon cutting." #
09.15.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today announced that efforts to force the House of Representatives to vote on legislation providing for a 100% repeal of “Obamacare” continued to gain momentum, with the addition of the 173rd signature. Once the discharge petition reaches 218 signatures, Speaker Pelosi will not be able to prevent the repeal legislation from receiving, and passing, a vote on the floor. "We have also added the first Democratic signature to the discharge petition. Rep. Gene Taylor of Mississippi is the first Democrat to sign the discharge petition, and it is my hope that his decision will pave the way for other Democrats who support repeal to break ranks with Speaker Pelosi and President Obama.” A list of Members who have signed on to the legislation (organized by state) has been provided below: DISCHARGE PETITION #11 SIGNEES (UPDATED September 15, 2010) Alabama: Aderholt, Bachus, Bonner, Griffith, Rogers Alaska: Young Arizona: Flake, Franks, Shadegg Arkansas: Boozman California: Bilbray, Bono Mack, Calvert, Campbell, Dreier, Gallegly, Herger, Hunter, Issa, Lewis, Lungren, McCarthy, McClintock, McKeon, Miller, Nunes, Radanovich, Rohrabacher, Royce Colorado: Coffman, Lamborn Connecticut: -None- Delaware: -None- Florida: Bilirakis, Brown-Waite, Buchanan, Crenshaw, Diaz-Balart, Diaz-Balart, Mack, Mica, Miller, Posey, Putnam, Rooney, Ros-Lehtinen, Stearns, Young Georgia: Broun, Gingrey, Graves, Kingston, Linder, Price, Westmorland Hawaii: Djou Idaho: Simpson Illinois: Biggert, Johnson, Manzullo, Roskam, Schick, Shimkus Indiana: Burton, Buyer, Pence Iowa: King, Latham Kansas: Jenkins, Moran, Tiahrt Kentucky: Davis, Guthrie, Rogers, Whitfield Louisiana: Alexander, Cassidy, Fleming, Scalise Maine: -None- Maryland: Bartlett Massachusetts: -None- Michigan: Camp, Ehlers, Hoekstra, McCotter, Miller, Rogers, Upton Minnesota: Bachmann, Kline, Paulsen Mississippi: Harper, Taylor Missouri: Akin, Blunt, Emerson, Graves, Luetkemeyer, Montana: Rehberg Nebraska: Fortenberry, Smith, Terry Nevada: Heller New Hampshire: -None- New Jersey: Frelinghuysen, Garrett, Lance, LoBiondo, Smith New Mexico: -None- New York: King, Lee North Carolina: Coble, Foxx, Jones, McHenry, Myrick North Dakota: -None- Ohio: Austria, Boehner, Jordan, LaTourette, Latta, Schmidt, Tiberi, Turner Oklahoma: Cole, Fallin, Lucas, Sullivan Oregon: Walden Pennsylvania: Dent, Gerlach, Murphy, Pitts, Platts, Shuster, Thompson Rhode Island: -None- South Carolina: Barrett, Brown, Inglis, Wilson South Dakota: -None- Tennessee: Blackburn, Duncan, Roe, Wamp Texas: Barton, Brady, Burgess, Carter, Conaway, Culberson, Gohmert, Granger, Hall, Hensarling, Johnson, Marchant, McCaul, Neugebauer, Olson, Paul, Poe, Sessions, Smith, Thornberry Utah: Bishop, Chaffetz, Vermont: -None- Virginia: Cantor, Forbes, Goodlatte, Wittman, Wolf Washington: Hastings, Rodgers West Virginia: -None- Wisconsin: Petri, Ryan, Sensenbrenner Wyoming: Lummis #
09.15.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement after learning that Rep. Gene Taylor, a Democrat from Mississippi, had become the first House Democrat to lend his support to Congressman King’s efforts to fully repeal Obamacare. This afternoon, Representative Taylor (D-MS) signed Discharge Petition #11, which, once signed by 218 Members of Congress, will force an up or down vote on HR 4972, King’s repeal legislation. With Taylor’s signature, King has now gathered 172 of the 218 signatures he needs to bring his Obamacare repeal bill to the floor for a vote. “Adding Rep. Taylor to the discharge petition is a significant step towards repealing Obamacare,” said King. “Rep. Taylor is the first Democrat to sign the discharge petition, and it is my hope that his decision will pave the way for other Democrats who support repeal to break ranks with Speaker Pelosi and President Obama.” “Rep. Taylor’s decision also means that the effort to repeal Obamacare now has something that the effort to pass Obamacare never achieved: bipartisan support. Americans want the President’s bill repealed, and Americans should ask their Representatives to sign the discharge petition.” #
09.09.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King celebrated today’s groundbreaking ceremony for the new Highway 34 bridge that will be constructed in Mills County. The bridge has been in the planning stages for 19 years. It will span the Missouri River and will be completed as a partnership between Iowa and Nebraska. Congressman King has been working to support the project for nearly a decade, and has released the following statement after speaking at the groundbreaking ceremony earlier today: 0 Congressman Steve King breaks ground for the new Highway 34 bridge. Included in the photo are (from left to right): United States Senator Tom Harkin, Gov. Dave Heineman, Paul Hartnett, Larry Winum, Congressman Steve King, Senator Abbie Cornett, Senator Hubert Houser, Rusty Hike, Richard Crouch and George Maher. "Today's groundbreaking ceremony marks the start of construction on a project that will bring new opportunities for significant economic development to Western Iowa. We would not have broken ground today without the strong support of our two states' transportation agencies and the engagement of the community leaders in Iowa and Nebraska who have understood from the beginning the kind of impact this will have for their communities," said King. "We've all worked hard to get to the point where we could break ground on this project, but we're not done yet. I look forward to watching construction on the bridge progress, and I will continue working with everyone involved to ensure we keep pushing on towards a ribbon cutting ceremony when the project is completed." #
09.03.2010	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Steve King (R-IA) responded today to the Department of Justice’s lawsuit against Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County. “In May, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) filed suit against the State of Arizona regarding SB 1070, Arizona’s immigration enforcement law. Two months later, the Department of Justice followed the ACLU’s lead and filed a different suit against the State of Arizona. It is no surprise that DOJ is again letting the ACLU call the shots. In August 2009, the ACLU filed a suit against Sheriff Arpaio for racial profiling. And today, Assistant Attorney General Tom Perez announced DOJ’s suit against Sheriff Arpaio and Maricopa County for racial profiling.” “This is a blatant political move by a Department of Justice that is already over politicized. The DOJ is charged with enforcing the law and defending the interests of the United States, but instead they have decided to legally harass a State, a Governor and a Legislature that is trying to enforce our nation’s immigration law.” #
09.02.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a Storm Lake town hall meeting on Wednesday, September 8. The town hall meeting, which is open to the public and to the press, will be held at Storm Lake City Hall in the Council Chambers. The event will begin at 3:00 PM and last until 4:00 PM. “Town hall meetings help me to better serve in Congress because they give me the opportunity to discuss the issues we consider in Washington directly with my constituents,” said King. “I am looking forward to being in Storm Lake on the 8th to meet with the people in the area. I encourage anyone interested in participating to come to City Hall on Wednesday afternoon to join the discussion.” Storm Lake Town Hall Schedule for Wednesday, September 8 Event is Open to the Public and to the Press Event: Storm Lake Town Hall Meeting w/ Congressman Steve King. Date: Wednesday, September 8 Time: 3:00 PM- 4:00 PM (CST) Location: Storm Lake City Hall Council Chambers 620 Erie St. Storm Lake, IA #
08.31.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announces that his legislation seeking a 100% repeal of Obamacare is being featured today on the “America Speaking Out” website. Visitors to www.americaspeakingout.com can view a video of Congressman King discussing the importance of repealing Obamacare, can register support or opposition to Congressman King’s idea, or can “speak out” by posting comments. “I encourage Americans to visit the ‘America Speaking Out’ website to vote on my idea to fully repeal Obamacare,” said King. “I believe that the full, 100% repeal of Obamacare should be the top priority of House Republicans going forward, and I am confident that most Americans agree with me. This is an opportunity for Americans to speak to the Republican leadership about the importance of repealing Obamacare, and I encourage them to do so.” Congressman King’s video can be viewed on the home page of the “American Speaking Out” website by clicking the following link: http://www.americaspeakingout.com/
08.31.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a town hall meeting in Mount Ayr on Tuesday, September 7. The town hall meeting, which is open to the public and to the press, will be held at “Jamie’s Coffee Mill & Deli” located on West Adams St. The event will begin at 3:00 PM and last until 4:00 PM. “I am inviting everyone who is interested in joining a discussion about the issues that we face in Washington to come out and share their thoughts with me,” said King. “Town hall meetings help me better serve in Congress because they allow me to hear the thoughts and opinions of my constituents first hand. I look forward to hearing what is on the minds of the people of Mount Ayr next Tuesday.” Mount Ayr Town Hall Schedule for Tuesday, September 7 Event is Open to the Public and to the Press Event: Mount Ayr Town Hall Meeting w/ Congressman Steve King. Date: Tuesday, September 7 Time: 3:00 PM- 4:00 PM (CST) Location: Jamie’s Coffee Mill & Deli 118 W. Adams St. Mount Ayr, IA
08.30.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a Spirit Lake town hall meeting on Friday, September 3rd. The town hall meeting, which is open to the public and to the press, will be held at the Dickinson County Courthouse in the Assembly Room. The event will begin at 2:30 PM and last until 3:30 PM. “I look forward to hosting the Spirit Lake town hall meeting on Friday,” said King. “I have been hosting town hall meetings throughout the district because listening to the questions and concerns of my constituents helps me better represent their views in Congress. I encourage all those interested in attending to come to the Dickinson County Courthouse on Friday afternoon to join the discussion.” Town Hall Schedule for Friday, September 3rd Event is Open to the Public and to the Press Event: Spirit Lake Town Hall Meeting w/ Congressman Steve King. Date: Friday, September 3rd Time: 2:30 PM- 3:30 PM (CST) Location: Dickinson County Courthouse Assembly Room 1802 Hill Avenue Spirit Lake, IA #
08.27.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he has accepted an invitation to speak to the members of Sioux City Downtown Rotary Club #54. Congressman King will be the featured speaker during the club’s August 30th meeting at Sioux City’s Clarion Hotel. The meeting will run from 12:00-1:30 PM CST, and will feature Congressman King giving opening remarks and taking questions from those in attendance. “The Sioux City Downtown Rotary Club has a long and storied history of good works and it is a privilege to be asked to address its membership,” said King. “Rotarians believe in the motto ‘Service above Self’ which is something that anyone who holds public office should aspire to uphold. I appreciate having the opportunity to speak at Monday’s Rotary Club meeting, and I look forward to discussing the impact Washington’s policies are having on Sioux City with these community leaders.” #
08.26.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that former Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, Newt Gingrich, has endorsed King’s legislation, H.R. 4972, which seeks to fully repeal Obamacare. Speaker Gingrich issued his endorsement of King’s efforts in “The Newt Gingrich Letter”, a weekly e-mail newsletter sent to over 700,000 subscribers nationwide. In the newsletter, Speaker Gingrich described King’s Obamacare repeal bill as “the most practical solution to repeal Obamacare” and urged his readers to contact their Member of Congress to request they sign Congressman King’s discharge petition #11. Once 218 signatures are collected, discharge petition #11 would force a vote on King’s Obamacare repeal bill which could not be blocked by Speaker Pelosi. The discharge petition has been signed by 170 members to date. “Speaker Gingrich’s endorsement of both H.R. 4972 and discharge petition #11 is a clear sign that this is the strategy Obamacare opponents should use to achieve 100% repeal,” said King. “Speaker Gingrich understands the hurdles that repeal supporters face, as well as the best ways to overcome them. His endorsement of my legislation as ‘the most practical solution to repeal Obamacare’ should resonate loudly with the American people and send a message to those who have not yet signed on to the discharge petition.” The full text of Speaker Gingrich’s remarks can be found at the following link: http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=38692 #
08.25.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a town hall meeting in Sioux City on Monday, August 30th. The town hall meeting, which is open to the public and to the press, will be held on the campus of Western Iowa Tech Community College. The event will begin at 9:00 AM and run until 10:00 AM (CST). “The last time I scheduled a town hall meeting in Sioux City, Speaker Pelosi interrupted it by calling the Congress back into session for votes on a wasteful bailout package,” said King. “On behalf of all taxpayers, I certainly hope that doesn’t happen again. I look forward to hosting the Sioux City town hall meeting, and to listening to the questions and concerns from my constituents. I encourage all those interested in attending to come to the event.” Town Hall Schedule for Monday, August 30th Event is Open to the Public and to the Press Event: Sioux City Town Hall Meeting w/ Congressman Steve King. Date: Monday, August 30th Time: 9:00 AM – 10:00 AM (CST) Location: Western Iowa Tech Community College Room L417 Parking Lot 3 – Entrance 11 4647 Stone Avenue ###
08.25.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) has issued the following statement in response to the press conference held yesterday between former USDA employee Shirley Sherrod and Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack. During the press conference, Sherrod revealed that she would not be accepting an offer of employment from Secretary Vilsack. Other important questions, however, were not addressed by either Mrs. Sherrod or Secretary Vilsack. “Before the press conference, we knew that Mrs. Sherrod was hired three days after being awarded $13 million in the nation’s largest civil rights case, Pigford v. Vilsack. We knew that Mrs. Sherrod was forced to pull over to the side of the road and send in her resignation. We knew that she had maintained that the White House pressured her to resign immediately.” “After all the friendly gestures between Secretary Vilsack and Mrs. Sherrod, there are still several questions unanswered. Why is Secretary Vilsack taking responsibility for the decision when Mrs. Sherrod has maintained she was contacted by the White House? Did the White House demand Secretary Vilsack fire Mrs. Sherrod? Is she still being paid by the federal government? Has Mrs. Sherrod agreed not to file another lawsuit against Secretary Vilsack or the federal government? Was Shirley Sherrod granted an additional settlement in exchange for her silence and an agreement not to sue Vilsack again? Why is Mrs. Sherrod filing suit against Andrew Breitbart, but hugging the man who fired her?” “Without transparency, the American people will never know the truth behind the thousands of fraudulent Pigford claims for $2.3 billion, will never know who really fired Shirley Sherrod and will never know if other potential agreements were made to keep Mrs. Sherrod quiet.” #
08.25.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law, issued the following statement after reading remarks made by Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack to the Capitol Hill newspaper, Politico. In his remarks, Secretary Vilsack claimed that food prices would be “three, four or five times more” were it not for the presence of illegal immigrants working in rural America. Vilsack then used this claim as evidence to support his call for amnesty via “comprehensive immigration reform.” “Today, Secretary Vilsack made an unfounded claim that without illegal labor, Americans would be spending ‘a lot more –three, four or five times more—for food.’ This is blatantly false. Data from the Secretary’s own Department of Agriculture and the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that labor costs only represent six-percent of the price consumers pay for fresh fruit and vegetables. Based on a 2007 report by the Center for Immigration Studies, if there was a 40-percent increase in farm wages, this would only raise consumer spending on fresh fruit and vegetables by $8 a year.” “The Obama Administration and Secretary Vilsack have failed to consider the cost of granting comprehensive amnesty to 12-20 million illegal aliens currently living in the United States. Comprehensive amnesty will further devastate our economy by sacrificing more American jobs and opening up our 71 different welfare programs to those that have come here illegally. This would place a larger tax burden on the already strained wallets of Americans. Now is the time to enforce the Rule of Law, not grant comprehensive amnesty.” #
08.23.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announces that he will be holding a town hall meeting in Le Mars on Friday, August 27th. King will be joined at this event by fellow Congressman Devin Nunes (R, CA-21). The town hall meeting will occur at the Le Mars Convention Center from 2:15 PM until 3:30 PM. The town hall is open to the public and to the media, and all interested area residents are invited to attend. Congressman Devin Nunes has represented California’s 21st Congressional District since 2003. He is a member of both the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over taxes, healthcare, Social Security and trade, and also the House Budget Committee. Nunes also serves in a leadership position as Assistant House Republican Whip. Prior to his election to Congress, Nunes served in the Department of Agriculture as the California State Director for the USDA’s Rural Development section. Congressman Nunes’ family has operated a dairy farm in Tulare County, California for three generations. Town Hall Schedule for Friday, August 27 Event is open to the public and the media. Event: Town Hall w/ Congressmen Steve King & Devin Nunes Date: Friday, August 27th Time: 2:15 PM – 3:30 PM CST Location: Le Mars Convention Center, Board Room 275 12th Street Le Mars, IA
08.20.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a town hall meeting in Council Bluffs on Monday, August 23rd. The town hall meeting will be held at the Council Bluffs Public Library and will occur between 2:00 PM and 3:00 PM. The event is open to the public and to the media. “I am looking forward to hosting a town hall meeting in Council Bluffs on the 23rd,” said King. “Town hall meetings help me to better represent the 5th District by providing me with the opportunity to hear directly from my constituents. I encourage people to come to the meeting and to join the discussion.” Town Hall Schedule for Monday, August 23rd Event: Council Bluffs Town Hall with Congressman Steve King Date: Monday, August 23rd Time: 2:00 PM – 3:00 PM (CST) Location: Council Bluffs Public Library 400 Willow Avenue Council Bluffs #
08.13.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he will be holding a radio town hall meeting in Sioux Center on Thursday, August 19th. The event, which will be broadcast on KDCR 88.5 FM, will be held on the campus of Dordt College at the Student Center. Congressman King will be joined during the radio town hall by the President of Dordt College, Dr. Carl Zylstra. The radio town hall will be broadcast live on the 19th beginning at 10:00 AM (CST) and ending at 11:00 AM (CST). “I am excited about having the opportunity to join Dr. Zylstra for a radio town hall meeting at Dordt College,” said King. “This format allows a greater degree of flexibility for people who wish to participate, and I invite people who may be unable to call-in to e-mail their questions or comments instead. I look forward to talking with you on August 19th.” The format of a radio town hall allows members of the public to participate in a variety of ways, including through the submission of questions by phone during the event, and also through the submission of emailed comments. Those wishing to call the radio town hall on the 19th may dial either 712-722-0885 or 800-845-0885. Those wishing to submit an e-mail question or comment may do so at This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it "> ' ); document.write( addy71707 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> kdcr@dordt.edu ' ); //--> This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it ' ); //--> beginning on Tuesday, August 17 and ending at 10:30 AM on August 19th. Radio Town Hall Schedule for Thursday, August 19th Event: Radio Town Hall w/ Congressman Steve King & Dr. Carl Zystra Date: Thursday, August 19 Time: 10:00 AM – 11:00 AM (CST) Location: Dordt College Student Center 498 4th Avenue Sioux Center Station: KDCR 88.5 FM Call-In: 712-722-0885 or 800-845-0885 E-mail: This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it "> ' ); document.write( addy28610 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> kdcr@dordt.edu ' ); //--> This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it ' ); //--> #
08.10.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that he has cosponsored a congressional resolution which states that District Judge Vaughn Walker’s ruling striking down California’s popularly enacted ban on same-sex marriages was wrongly decided. The resolution also criticizes District Judge Vaughn Walker’s behavior in the Proposition 8 case, citing several instances of misconduct which demonstrated his failure to remain impartial in the case. King joined Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-MN) and Rep. John Fleming (R-LA) at a press conference this morning to announce the introduction of the legislation. Rep. Smith, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, is the resolution's sponsor. “When a judge takes the law into his hands and seeks to establish a social policy that is his preference without respect for the Constitution, without respect for the Rule of Law, then that decision needs to be rejected,” said King. “Frankly, I think this resolution is a good step in the right direction but we need to do more to rein in the courts.” Congressman Steve King discusses the introduction of a resolution condemning the ruling in the Proposition 8 case. Also pictured are Rep. John Fleming and Rep. Michele Bachmann. “If this nation does not rise up, then we’ve capitulated to the judges and it’s the tyranny of the courts,” King added. “It’s the American people that need to make this decision. Our Founding Fathers didn’t envision that there would be such awe for people in black robes that we would suspend our reason. This judge has suspended his reason, and I would be very happy to take whatever steps, however bold, to reverse this.” Video of Congressman King speaking at today’s press conference can be viewed on the Congressman’s YouTube page at: http://www.youtube.com/user/RepSteveKing#p/a/u/0/obXcGWVXVaQ #
08.06.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today announced that he will be hosting town hall meetings in Red Oak, Guthrie Center, and Primghar on Thursday, August 12th and Friday, August 13th. The town hall meetings are open to the public and to the media and all interested 5th District residents are invited to attend. “I am pleased to announce that I will be hosting a series of upcoming town hall meetings in Red Oak, Guthrie Center and Primghar,” said King. “Town hall meetings allow me to communicate directly with my constituents about the issues under consideration in Washington, and this exchange allows me to better represent the people of the 5th District. I invite anyone interested in joining the discussion to come out to the events in Red Oak and Guthrie Center on August 12th and in Primghar on August 13th.” Town Hall Schedule: August 12 and 13 Town Hall Events are Open to Members of the Public and to Members of the Media Thursday, August 12: Red Oak Town Hall Meeting YMCA Meeting Room 101 East Cherry Street 11:00 AM to 12:00 Noon (CST) Guthrie Center Town Hall Meeting Guthrie County Courthouse in the Public Hearing Room 200 North 5th Street 3:30-4:30 PM (CST) Friday, August 13: Primghar Town Hall Meeting O’Brien County Courthouse-Assembly Room 155 South Hayes Avenue 3:30-4:30 PM (CST) For more information about these town hall events, please contact Congressman King’s office at (202) 225-4426. #
08.06.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) announced today that the town hall meeting previously scheduled to occur on August 10 in Sioux City will be rescheduled in the wake of Speaker Pelosi’s decision to call Congress into session for votes on that day. “While I would prefer to host the town hall meeting in Sioux City as scheduled, circumstances dictate that I return to Washington for votes on that day,” said King. “I appreciate the interest that has been shown by constituents planning on attending the Sioux City event, and I am currently working to find a suitable time, date and location that will allow me to reschedule it. As soon as these details are ironed out, I will announce the new schedule.” #
07.29.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King announced today that Iowa’s request for a Major Disaster Declaration had been granted by President Obama. Today’s decision comes just nine days after Congressman King wrote the President to request that he approve Iowa’s request for federal assistance following severe storms beginning in early June and continuing. King’s letter to the President was signed by all five Members of Iowa’s Congressional House delegation. As a result of today’s disaster declaration, counties that have suffered significant storm, flood and tornado damage caused by the severe weather systems that have swept through the state since June 1 are eligible for FEMA’s public assistance and hazard mitigation programs. “Today’s decision will be welcome news for Iowans, and I appreciate the Administration’s decision to approve the state’s request for this disaster declaration,” said King. “I know that the scenes of flood damage I observed in Cherokee County are being repeated throughout both the 5th district and the state at large. Access to these federal recovery programs will help those communities that have been severely impacted by the storms get back on their feet.” The following counties are covered by the July 29, 2010 disaster declaration: Adams, Appanoose, Audubon, Buena Vista, Butler, Cherokee, Clay, Davis, Decatur, Franklin, Howard, Humboldt, Iowa, Lee, Lyon, Madison, Marion, Mills, Monroe, Montgomery, O’Brien, Osceola, Palo Alto, Ringgold, Shelby, Union, Van Buren, Wapello, Warren, Wayne, Webster and Wright. #
07.28.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Steve King today released the following statement praising the Republican Leadership of the U.S. House of Representatives for backing Discharge Petition #11, which, once signed by 218 Members of the House, will force a vote on the House floor on King’s legislation to repeal ‘Obamacare.’ “We’ve reached an important milestone in the effort to bring repeal legislation to the floor. Last night, Rep. Joe Barton, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Rep. Dave Camp, Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee, signed the Discharge Petition, filling out the ranks of the ‘designated’ Republican leadership in the House. This sends an unmistakable message to the American people: House Republicans have heard their calls for 100% repeal of ‘Obamacare,’ and we’re ready to deliver,” said King. “Discharge Petition #11 now has 162 signatures on it,” King continued. “None of the 34 House Democrats who voted against ‘Obamacare’ have yet signed on, while all but 13 House Republicans have or have agreed to do so. House Democrats who claim to oppose ‘Obamacare’ now face a clear choice: stand with their ‘No’ vote on ‘Obamacare’ by signing onto the discharge petition, or stand with Speaker Pelosi by refusing to do so. The American people won’t be fooled: they understand that those who refuse to sign this discharge petition are, in fact, supporters of ‘Obamacare.’” #
07.28.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law, issued the following statement following the announcement that Federal District Judge Susan Bolton has issued an injunction preventing key enforcement provisions of Arizona’s S.B. 1070 from taking effect tomorrow. Bolton, who received her appointment to the federal bench from former President Bill Clinton, announced her ruling this afternoon.
07.27.2010	Washington, D.C. – In an effort to ensure areas recently impacted by severe weather are able to receive assistance as quickly as possible, Representatives Steve King (IA-05), Bruce Braley (IA-01), Tom Latham (IA-04), Leonard Boswell (IA-03), and David Loebsack (IA-02) sent a letter to President Obama today, asking him to accelerate the process of the Preliminary Damage Assessment for Iowa. The Preliminary Damage Assessment is used to determine the magnitude and impact of an event's damage and is needed for the allocation of federal assistance. “Iowans trying to recover from the damage caused by storms and rising waters do not need to be subjected to a federally caused flood of red tape as well,” King said. “That is why I am working with my colleagues to request that the President speed up the damage assessment process. When recovering from a disaster caused by weather, time is of the essence. The Administration should respect the severity of the recovery challenges that Iowans face by taking steps to ensure that federal recovery assistance is available as quickly as possible.” “Our communities have been hit hard by the recent severe weather systems and most recently heavy flooding,” Braley said. “We are therefore determined to get the funds needed to rebuild our homes and businesses promptly. This is an issue that affects counties across the state and I hope President Obama will move quickly and efficiently to ensure Iowans will not have to wait any longer than necessary to move forward with these recovery efforts.” “Iowa has been ravaged by severe weather in recent months, and there is a legitimate need for federal assistance in communities across the state,” Latham said. “I stand ready to work with local, state and federal officials to make sure Iowans are able rebound from the devastation as quickly as possible. With a coordinated and swift disaster response, I have no doubt that Iowans will rebuild their homes and communities stronger than ever.” “The past several years have been particularly difficult for many Iowans regardless if they live in town or on a farm,” Boswell said. “I am committed to working with my colleagues to speed up the process for a presidential disaster declaration and to get families, farmers, and small business owners the assistance they need to rebuild their homes and communities. Iowans pay taxes so that when disaster strikes they know that the government will be there in the recovery process. Let us not delay their rebuilding because of bureaucracy and red tape.” “Iowa has severely suffered from recent and past natural disasters and I sincerely urge the President to speed up the process,” Loebsack said. “As Iowans know all too well, the disaster relief network is riddled with red tape and aid often takes too long to reach communities. We must work together to help Iowa families, businesses, and communities as we move forward to rebuild our state.” Yesterday, Governor Chet Culver requested a Preliminary Damage Assessment from FEMA for the counties affected by this weekend’s flooding. Last week, Congressman King organized a delegation letter sent to Obama requesting the approval of Culver’s disaster declaration request for counties impacted by severe weather in Iowa. That letter can be viewed at the following address: http://steveking.house.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Newsroom.PressReleases&ContentRecord_id=f1819e7f-19b9-b4b1-12ea-9bac76a73243&Region_id=&Issue_id= #
07.26.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King announced today that he has been named a “Defender of Economic Freedom” by the Club for Growth. The Club for Growth performs a regular analysis of Congressional legislative actions to assist their membership in determining which Members of Congress have adhered closest to the causes of smaller government, lower taxation, and reduced federal spending. For the first session of the 111th Congress, Congressman King’s score of 98 out of 100 represented the highest score received by any member of the Iowa delegation in either the House or Senate. Only those Members of Congress who scored at least a 90 are awarded the distinction of being named a “Defender of Economic Freedom.” “Iowans know that the quickest way to get our economy back on its feet is by embracing the free-market policies of low taxation and reduced regulation,” said King. “In order to reduce unemployment, we must first create an economic climate in which small businesses can create jobs. We create this climate by taking the shackles of high taxes and burdensome regulation off of the private sector in order to unleash the entrepreneurial energy of the American people. I appreciate being named a ‘Defender of Economic Freedom’ by the Club for Growth, as they are at the forefront of free enterprise advocacy.” #
07.22.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today announced that he has signed onto a “friend of the court” brief defending Arizona’s immigration enforcement legislation, S.B. 1070. With King’s signature, 81 Members of the House of Representatives and 5 United States Senators have joined the Amicus Curiae brief to assert that the Obama Administration’s lawsuit against Arizona is without legal merit. The brief has been filed with the United States District Court in Arizona. United Stated District Court Judge Susan Bolton will hear arguments concerning the Obama Administration’s lawsuit, United States v. Arizona, this afternoon. “A judicious reading of both the United States Constitution and Arizona’s Constitution, along with federal and state law, brings me to the firm opinion that S.B. 1070 will withstand this politically motivated challenge,” said King. “The authors of the Arizona law knew that the Obama Administration would do everything it could to overturn it, and they crafted the legislation carefully to ensure it would survive scrutiny. The Administration would better serve the American people if it spent less time challenging Arizona’s laws and more time securing Arizona’s borders.” A copy of the amicus brief can be found online at: http://republicans.judiciary.house.gov/Media/PDFs/U%20S%20%20v%20%20Arizona%20Amicus%207%2020%202010.pdf #
07.21.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement announcing his decision to join the newly-formed House Tea Party Caucus. The House Tea Party Caucus, which will be chaired by Rep. Michele Bachmann, was approved by the House Administration Committee on Friday afternoon. The caucus will focus on injecting the American people’s desire for fiscal responsibility, fidelity to the United States Constitution, and limited government into policy formation. “America’s Tea Party organizations believe that Washington’s policymakers are ignoring the public’s demand for a limited government that is fiscally sound and that adheres to the principles of the Constitution,” said King. “The forced passage of the unconstitutional Obamacare bill over the objections of the American people shows that this belief is well founded. As the new majority-makers in American politics, the views of the Tea Parties deserve a Congressional forum. Rep. Bachmann should be commended for making sure that Tea Party voices extend from town-hall meetings to the halls of Congress.” #
07.20.2010	Washington, D.C.- House Members of the Iowa Congressional delegation today sent a letter to President Barack Obama asking that he quickly approve Gov. Chet Culver’s request for a disaster declaration for Iowa counties that have recently suffered significant damage from a severe weather system that began on June 1, 2010 and continues today. The storm system has produced high winds, heavy rain, hail, thunderstorms, tornadoes and flooding which have caused extensive damage throughout the state. Gov. Culver submitted his official request for a disaster declaration to President Obama on July 6. Statements of Congressmen King, Braley, Boswell, Latham and Loebsack follow: “Iowa has been hit hard by the severe weather systems that have moved through our state, and the people who have been affected expect a swift and efficient response,” said King. “In Cherokee County, for example, the waters exceeded the 1993 flood levels. There is no doubt that the request for federal help to these areas is appropriate and I look forward to continuing to work with Governor Culver, the members of Iowa’s Congressional delegation and President Obama to ensure that this assistance is approved quickly.” “In recent weeks and months, severe weather has taken a serious toll on communities across the state of Iowa,” said Braley. “It is critical now, just as it was following the floods of 2008, for the federal government to respond quickly and efficiently to give our communities the tools they need to recover. I look forward to working with President Obama, Governor Culver and my colleagues here in Washington to make sure Iowa’s small towns and families aren’t hung out to dry.” “For the second time in two years, flood waters have ravaged homes, farmland and businesses across the state,” said Congressman Leonard Boswell. “I support Governor Culver’s request for presidential disaster declarations for several Iowa counties that have been impacted by the flooding. Many Iowans are still trying to recover and rebuild from the floods of 2008 and this summer’s weather has set them further behind. I encourage the President to issue these declarations in order to help Iowa’s families and small businesses get back on their feet.” “The severe weather that has recently struck throughout Iowa requires a coordinated and efficient response,” said Congressman Latham. “Iowans are no strangers to severe weather and I have no doubt that the impacted communities will come back stronger than ever. However there is a legitimate need for federal help, and I’ll do everything I can to work with my colleagues to make sure that need is met.” “Iowa has struggled since the Floods of 2008, and the current flooding is hurting our state’s ongoing recovery efforts,” said Loebsack. “I support this request to help affected residents, businesses, and farmers and look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to ensure that this is handled in a timely manner. Iowans are in trouble and we must assure them that help is on the way.” The text of the letter follows: July 20, 2010 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. Dear Mr. President, We respectfully request that you grant the request made July 6, 2010 by Iowa Governor Chet Culver for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Iowa as a result of damages from a severe weather system that produced high winds, heavy rain, hail, thunderstorms, flooding and tornadoes beginning June 1, 2010 and continuing. Governor Culver has determined that this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments and that supplementary Federal assistance is needed. We thank you for your prompt consideration of this request. Sincerely, Steve King Leonard Boswell Tom Latham Bruce Braley Dave Loebsack
07.15.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) met this afternoon with members of the Iowa Corn Growers Association (ICGA). The ICGA delegation, representing corn growers throughout Iowa, is in Washington to share their concerns about a wide variety of issues with Members of Congress. During the meeting, Congressman King discussed several issues with the group, including increasing the Ethanol blend in gasoline from 10% to 15%, extending the ethanol blenders credit, improving locks and dams on Iowa’s rivers, opening up new markets for international trade, and concerns with the potential passage of a ‘cap and trade’ bill. “It’s always a pleasure to meet with members of the Iowa Corn Growers Association,” said King. “Our state’s interests are directly linked to the work these Iowans do every day. During our meeting, we discussed a number of issues under consideration in Washington that directly impact the bottom line for producers at home. In a number of respects, this is a critical period of time for corn growers, and I appreciate the fact that the members of this delegation took the time to come to Washington to make their voices heard.” #
07.07.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement after reading recent public statements made by DOJ Whistleblower J. Christian Adams which reveal that “widespread hostility” exists throughout the Department “to bringing cases against national racial minorities.” “DOJ whistleblower J. Christian Adams has written: ‘The Department has come under widespread criticism for the dismissal of the New Black Panther case, and for the fact that many within the Civil Rights Division are openly hostile to a race-neutral enforcement of civil rights laws. Notice that the Department has never once denied that widespread hostility exists throughout its ranks to bringing cases against national racial minorities. To do so would be futile, because so many people know it is true.’ Mr. Adams’ testimony supports my comments that the Obama Administration allows race to serve as a ‘default mechanism’ in policy making. This explains the ‘widespread hostility . . . to bringing cases against national racial minorities’ personally observed by Adams. Sadly, it also explains the DOJ’s questionable motivation for dismissing the voter intimidation case brought against the New Black Panthers. Adams’ remarks serve as compelling evidence that my comments about the Obama Administration’s ‘default mechanism’ are on target. I will continue to raise concerns about the Administration’s decision making process until their actions reveal that they have adopted a truly race-neutral approach towards enforcing the law.” #
07.07.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) issued the following statement after inspecting sites in Cherokee County that had been damaged by recent flooding. King met with officials representing both the City of Cherokee and Cherokee County to discuss local, state, and federal response to the floods. “I’ve seen first-hand how hard Cherokee was hit by recent flooding,” said King. “It is important that the response to these floods is quick and efficient for all those who have been affected by the rising waters. My office stands ready to work with local officials to help the residents of Cherokee County recover from this flooding.” Congressman Steve King (Right) and Cherokee County Engineer Dave Shanahan inspect flood damage in Cherokee County on Monday, July 5, 2010. Also taking part in the meeting with Congressman King were Dave Shanahan, Cherokee County Engineer; Linda Burkhart, Cherokee City Council; Jim Peck, Cherokee City Council; Greg Steineke, Cherokee City Council; and Don Eikmeier, Cherokee City Administrator. #
07.06.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law, today released the following statement following the announcement that the Department of Justice had filed suit to overturn Arizona’s immigration enforcement law, S.B. 1070. “It is no surprise that President Obama has ordered the Attorney General to challenge Arizona’s valid immigration enforcement law,” said King. “Following Christian Adams’ new revelations about a Department of Justice improperly driven by racial considerations, the only surprise is that Obama’s DOJ did not act to overturn the will of the people of Arizona sooner. After all, the President and the Attorney General were quick to condemn this law before reading it.” “With the filing of this lawsuit, it is clear that the Department of Justice would rather represent the interests of the ACLU, the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education Fund (MALDEF) and the Muslim American Society, than the interests of the American people. The decision to challenge Arizona’s law is just the latest evidence of this Administration’s determination to seek the support of minority voters by politicizing race.” “Americans would be better served by an administration that utilized our resources on securing the border and enforcing the rule of law. This DOJ lawsuit joins examples like the dismissal of the voter intimidation case against the ‘New Black Panthers’ as further evidence of the Administration’s political abuse.” “Despite DOJ’s allegations made in the complaint, nothing in the Arizona law violates the US Constitution or the Arizona Constitution nor does federal law pre-empt Arizona’s right to enforce federal immigration laws. SB 1070 was carefully crafted to ensure that it would withstand Constitutional challenge. I believe that Arizona’s law will withstand the scrutiny of the courts.” #
07.06.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement following comments by former Department of Justice Voting Rights Attorney Christian Adams that the Department of Justice dismissed the successful voter intimidation prosecution of members of the “New Black Panthers” over racial considerations. “DOJ whistleblower, Christian Adams, credibly alleges that the Department of Justice has adopted a default mechanism by which it is deciding how to handle voting rights cases based on the racial makeup of the parties involved. This is an explosive allegation, and is just the latest evidence of a Department of Justice that is more interested in playing racial politics than in ensuring Americans receive equal protection of the law.” “Adams says that ‘there’ s no doubt’ the DOJ will not prosecute voting rights cases if the defendant is black and the victim is white. In addition, Adams has claimed that the Justice Department views voting rights cases of white victims with a ‘pervasive hostility.’ In Adams’ view, both of these factors came into play in the Department’s decision to dismiss the successfully prosecuted case brought against the New Black Panthers in Philadelphia.” “Regrettably, this does not appear to be the only time the Obama administration has improperly allowed race to factor into its actions. The DOJ has invalidated a voter passed referendum which established non-partisan local elections in Kinston, North Carolina, with DOJ political appointee Loretta King arguing that ‘removing the partisan cue in municipal elections . . . will, in all likelihood, eliminate the single factor that allows black candidates to be elected to office’.” In another case, President Obama ordered Attorney General Holder to declare that Arizona’s immigration law promoted ‘racial profiling’ even though neither man had bothered to read the bill. In yet another instance of President Obama framing his remarks on race, he quickly and publicly concluded that Officer Crowley had ‘acted stupidly’ in the arrest of Professor Gates, even though Obama knew little more about the case than the race of the parties involved.” “I have been briefed in detail on the New Black Panther case for more than a year. I know Adams and I know he is telling the truth. Christian Adams’ principled resignation from a top position at DOJ was because the law was being so perverted and because Obama administration officials were lying under oath, including directly to me before the House Judiciary Committee. The decision to dismiss the charges against the ‘New Black Panthers’ in the most open and shut case of voter intimidation in American history is a scandal that has now been revealed to go as far up as the Attorney General, and perhaps to the White House.” #
07.01.2010	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) reiterated his calls for a full, 100% repeal of ‘Obamacare’ after noting that the 1st of the many tax increases included in the legislation takes effect today. The tax, which adds 10% to the cost of services provided by tanning salons, is projected to raise $2.7 billion dollars from the 30 million Americans who use a tanning salon at least once a year. When all of its taxes are considered, ‘Obamacare’ is projected to extract a total of $569 billion from Americans in new taxes over the next ten years. “The ‘suntan tax’ that takes effect today is a painful reminder of how Americans will be burned by ‘Obamacare’,” said King. “Our sluggish economy cannot afford to have an additional $2.7 billion taken out of the hides of Americans. We need to pass legislation that would eliminate this and all of ‘Obamacare’s’ taxes by fully repealing it now while its roots in the law only go skin deep.” Congressman King is currently circulating discharge petition #11, which would force the House of Representatives to vote on repeal legislation as soon as it is signed by 218 Members. To date, the discharge petition has gathered 92 signatures.
07.01.2010	Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law, issued the following statement following President Barack Obama’s appearance this morning at the American University School of International Service. “A nation that substitutes emotion and empathy for rational thought will eventually digress into the Dark Ages,” said King. The President’s immigration speech today was long on emotion and empathy, and short on rational thought.” “President Obama said it’s logistically impossible to secure our 2,000 mile border with fences and boots on the ground. More than 2,000 years ago, Qin Shi Huang, 1st Emperor of China, connected the gaps in the 5,500 mile long Great Wall of China. The wall worked for the Chinese then, much like the security fence works to protect Israelis from Palestinian homicide bombers today. No rational person can logically assert that the USA in the 21st century cannot force all border traffic through legal ports of entry.” “The second fallacy presented by our President was that legalizing more than 11 million people would free up law enforcement to stop ‘gangs and potential terrorists’ by allowing law-enforcement to focus their resources on criminals. Since most illegal aliens whose background would be checked do not have a legal documented existence in their own country, no background check could discover the criminal record of those who do not have for example, a birth certificate. Document fraud is the predictable result. Giving more than 11 million illegal aliens a legal means to cross the border will result in more, not less, border crossings, and more, not fewer, criminal cross-border acts.”
06.30.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today announced that the effort to pass legislation to fully and completely repeal “Obamacare” has gained significant momentum after receiving the endorsement of House Republican leadership. This afternoon, Minority Leader John Boehner and Minority Whip Eric Cantor became the latest Members of Congress to sign King’s discharge petition, a procedural device that would force the House of Representatives to vote on repeal legislation once 218 Members of Congress sign it. In addition to signing discharge petition #11, Reps. Boehner and Cantor released a joint statement which encouraged Republican colleagues to sign as well. “Republicans are the proponents of limited government, personal responsibility, and constitutional liberties, principles which ‘Obamacare’ violates,” said King. “Recognizing this fact, every House Republican voted against ‘Obamacare’ just three months ago. Now that our repeal effort has been endorsed by House GOP Leadership, House Republicans should stand by their votes by signing onto discharge petition #11.” ?“The American people did not want ‘Obamacare’ passed, and they have consistently called for their Representatives to show that they stand with them by repealing the legislation. Our discharge petition provides an avenue for repeal that even Speaker Pelosi can not block. Republicans recognize that a clean, 100% repeal bill is the best strategy for uprooting ‘Obamacare’ lock, stock and barrel, and will continue to show their commitment to ‘Obamacare’s’ repeal by quickly signing our discharge petition.”? ?As of this writing, Congressman King’s discharge petition has been signed by 74 Members of Congress.? King, Congresswoman Michele Bachmann, and a small group of dedicated colleagues have led the effort for 100% repeal in the House of Representatives since the legislation was passed by the House earlier this year.
06.28.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA), a member of the House Judiciary Committee, today released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in McDonald v. Chicago. This decision applies the Constitution’s Second Amendment guarantee of the right to bear arms to laws made at the state and local levels. "At the same time, today's 5-4 decision reveals that our second amendment rights are one vote away from being lost, and it highlights the need to put strict constructionists on the court instead of activist liberals like Elena Kagan. Obama would not nominate a justice to any federal court who holds the conviction that the Constitution means what it says, including Kagan."
06.25.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today invited Iowans to visit www.AmericaSpeakingOut.com, an online initiative sponsored by the House Republican Conference that seeks to improve the public’s ability to engage with Members of Congress. The “America Speaking Out” website utilizes a variety of interactive features that not only allow members of the public to submit their own ideas for consideration, but also to debate policy proposals online and to vote on legislative priorities. Through “America Speaking Out”, House Republicans will: • Solicit ideas and priorities from all Americans, regardless of party affiliation. • Provide an innovative online forum for policy debate and idea generation. • Ensure that voices from outside Washington are brought into the policy debate. • Explain how principles of freedom and limited government best address American needs. • Produce a new agenda for America based on conservative principles and a transparent process. Since its launch, over 450,000 Americans have visited www.AmericaSpeakingOut.com to let their voices become part of the debate. All Americans are welcome to take part, regardless of party affiliation.
06.24.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following photograph of his participation in a ceremony honoring Senior Airmen Natalie Urquieta following Urquieta’s selection as the Air National Guard’s “Outstanding Airmen of the Year.” Senior Airmen Urquieta is a member of the Iowa National Guard’s 185th Air Refueling Wing Medical Group based at Colonel Bud Day Field in Sioux City. Urquieta received the recognition for “dedicated service and outstanding leadership” she displayed during her deployment to Afghanistan in 2009. Senior Airmen Natalie Urquieta of the 185th Air Refueling Wing and Congressman Steve King. “Iowans owe a special debt of gratitude to the brave men and women of the Iowa National Guard,” said King. “In 2009, Senior Airmen Urquieta spent 6 months in Afghanistan providing care for wounded soldiers and civilians. She worked 16 hour days in both the Intermediate Care Ward and in the Emergency Room. She has earned the honor to be recognized as the ‘Outstanding Airmen of the Year’ and I know that Sioux City’s 185th Air Refueling Wing is proud to count her as a member.”
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following remarks after watching an advertisement in which Secretary Of Labor Hilda Solis encourages illegal immigrants to contact the Labor Department for assistance in pursuing wage claims against their employers. In her taped remarks, Solis states that “every worker in America has a right to be paid fully whether documented or not. So call us.” Solis’ statement is an explicit invitation for illegal immigrants to bring the resources and power of the Department of Labor to bear against American employers. “Whether they are using the Department of Labor to support illegal immigrants’ allegations against America’s employers, or the Department of Justice to invalidate Arizona’s illegal immigration enforcement law, this Administration continues to use the limited resources of the American taxpayer on behalf of illegal aliens,” said King. “It is shameful that Secretary Solis has to be reminded that her primary duty is owed to the American people, and not to those who have illegally entered our country. The Obama Administration needs to realize that the American people have a right to have their immigration laws enforced.” Secretary Solis’ advertisement can be viewed in full at the following link: http://www.thefoxnation.com/illegal-immigration/2010/06/21/obama-labor-chief-illegals-have-right-fair-wages #
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today made the following comments regarding the Sac County groundbreaking ceremony for four-lane US 20. Congressman King has been a vocal advocate for this project and has worked to secure more than $26 million in federal funds for efforts to four-lane US 20. “Today we celebrate a major milestone in the effort to complete a four-lane U.S. Highway 20 from Sioux City all the way to Dubuque and on to Chicago,” said King. “For decades, western Iowans have been pushing for this vital transportation link to be four-laned. With today’s groundbreaking in Sac County, we’re significantly closer to that goal." “I supported this project before I was elected to the Iowa Senate and made it my number one transportation priority as a Member of Congress. In working with our state’s senators and House delegation, the Four-Lane Highway 20 Association, and local communities, I have networked the effort to secure millions in federal funds to help bring this project to western Iowa. I will continue to do all I can to keep it moving until the day we cut the ribbon on the final mile of four-lane Highway 20.” “There is still much work to be done, but today is a day to celebrate the incredible amounts of hard work and tireless effort that have brought the beginnings of a new, four-lane, Highway 20 to the Fifth Congressional District.” #
06.16.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law, today issued the following statement after being informed that neither President Obama’s aunt, Ms. Zeituni Onyango, nor her attorney, Ms. Margaret Wong, would testify in Thursday’s hearing regarding the Executive Office for Immigration Review. Congressman King wrote Committee Chairwoman Zoe Lofgren to request that the committee formally invite either Ms. Onyango or Ms. Wong to inquire if Ms. Onyango’s blood relationship to President Obama improperly influenced the recent decision to rescind a deportation order and grant her asylum. ###
06.15.2010	Which is the greatest threat to America?Deficit Spending and our National DebtThe Gulf Oil SpillVoteView ResultsPolldaddy.com
06.14.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law, today released the text of a letter he has written seeking the Committee’s assistance in inviting Ms. Zeituni Onyango to testify in Thursday’s hearing regarding the Executive Office for Immigration Review. Ms. Onyango, better known to the general pubic as President Barack Obama’s Aunt, was recently granted asylum by an immigration judge. This decision overruled an earlier judicial determination ordering her deportation. Questions have been raised about whether her relationship to President Obama improperly resulted in her receiving preferential treatment. The relevant text of Congressman King’s letter to Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Chair of the Subcommittee, appears below: “I am concerned about the public perception that favoritism played a role in the grant of asylum to Ms. Onyango. The Boston Globe reported that “the [asylum] decision unleashed a firestorm of criticism from those who felt Onyango received preferential treatment because of her relationship with the president.” In order to better determine whether favoritism played a role – especially because Ms. Onyango had been earlier turned down for asylum and ordered deported in 2004 before her nephew became president – the Subcommittee needs to hear from Ms. Onyango herself. Therefore, I will invite her as the Republican witness on the second panel at Thursday’s hearing. While I understand that asylum proceedings are generally confidential, Margaret Wong, Ms. Onyango’s attorney, has clearly courted press attention regarding this matter. In fact, I assume that the press learned that Ms. Onyango received asylum because of comments to the media made by Ms. Wong. Therefore, Ms. Onyango has made herself a public figure and should have no hesitation about appearing before the Subcommittee. Further, in order to facilitate Ms. Onyango’s appearance before the Subcommittee, I request that you and Chairman Conyers authorize the Committee to reimburse her travel expenses.” The Subcommittee Hearing is currently scheduled to occur on Thursday, June 17 at 10:00 AM in Room 2141 of the Rayburn House Office Building. ###
06.11.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement concerning the recent shooting of a Mexican national by an American Border Patrol agent. The Mexican national has been identified as Sergio Adrian Hernandez Huerka, an individual charged with alien smuggling in 2009. Huerka also appeared on a “most wanted” list of juvenile smugglers compiled by authorities in El Paso, Texas. “When faced with a life threatening situation, this agent appears to have responded to lethal force with lethal force as authorized. But this incident could have been avoided if the Administration had lived up to its responsibility under the ‘Secure Fence Act’ to build fences on our border.” “A border wall would dramatically reduce illegal immigration and it would give Border Patrol agents protection from violent assaults that they now face. If we are serious about ending violence along the border, we must make the construction and completion of border fences our priority.” #
06.09.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement following the nation of Turkey’s vote against imposing sanctions on Iran for the Islamic Republic’s continued development of a nuclear program. The sanctions resolution was offered in the United Nations Security Council by the United States and was approved by a vote of 12-2 with one abstention. “Under Barack Obama’s foreign policy, Turkey is transforming itself from a secular and strategic ally of the United States into an increasingly hostile Islamic state,” said King. “Turkey’s decision to support Iran’s effort to develop nuclear weapons over America’s objections indicates that the Obama administration’s foreign policies are emboldening Turkey’s radical Islamists.” “When the President of the United States bows to a prince or refuses to allow his cabinet to even utter the words ‘radical Islam’ he projects weakness and lack of resolve. This alienates our friends, especially those who are in strategically vulnerable countries, and emboldens our enemies.” #
05.28.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today called upon Attorney General Eric Holder to immediately make the DOJ’s “draft complaint” challenging Arizona’s immigration law public. “President Obama has ordered Attorney General Eric Holder to use the Department of Justice in an attempt to invalidate Arizona’s illegal-immigration enforcement law,” said King. “The ACLU, SEIU and the Muslim American Society are calling the shots at the Justice Department. The ‘draft complaint’ DOJ has prepared to challenge the Arizona law is a ‘cut & paste’ version of the class-action lawsuit the ACLU filed in United States District Court on May 17th. No other conclusion could be reached unless Holder releases the Department’s ‘draft complaint.’ But when it becomes public, all of America will know what I know today. The ACLU and their radical affiliates are dictating the policy of the White House and the Department of Justice.” #
05.28.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today offered thanks to past and present members of the United States of America’s Armed Forces for their service to our country. King’s remarks are offered as Americans enter the Memorial Day Weekend, a holiday dedicated to honoring the men and women who gave their lives in service to the nation. “I offer my deepest gratitude and sincerest thanks to those who have worn, and those who wear, the nation’s uniform,” said King. “The men and women honored on Memorial Day are the cherished guardians of the United States Constitution and of the liberties Americans enjoy. As America prepares to commemorate Memorial Day, I encourage everyone to take a moment to reflect on the sacrifices that our nation’s veterans have made. I also hope that Iowans will join with me in expressing appreciation for the sacrifices made by those currently serving and for those made by their families." #
05.27.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement following his participation in a Capitol Hill press conference in which he urged Congress to reject efforts to repeal the legislative prohibition on military service by openly homosexual men and women. King was joined at the press conference by: U.S. Representative Jack Kingston (R-GA); Tony Perkins, President, Family Research Council; Douglas Lee, Chaplain, (Brigadier General, Ret); Kevin Theriot, Senior Counsel, Alliance Defense Fund; and a delegation of Pastors and Rabbis representing congregations throughout America. “One of the few things President Clinton got right was his decision to sign the ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ policy into law,” said King. “To Clinton’s credit, he put the nation’s interests in military readiness and unit cohesion ahead of the political interests of so-called ‘gay-rights’ activists. Regrettably, it appears that the ruling troika of Speaker Pelosi, Senator Reid and President Obama want to reverse these priorities. The nation’s military is currently fighting wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. This is not the time to subject our fighting forces to a rushed and risky experiment in social engineering. As lawmakers, our responsibility to our troops could not be clearer: Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, Don’t Repeal.”
05.26.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement in response to the Obama administration’s decision to request $500 million in supplemental funding for a newly announced Southwestern border security initiative. In addition to the funding, the Obama administration also proposes the deployment of up to 1,200 National Guardsmen along the 2,000 mile southern border. “The President’s decision is a symbolic change from his usual unenthusiastic approach to border security,” said King. “It’s ironic that this announcement comes soon after Mexican President Calderon lectured the United States Congress on immigration policy from the well of the House of Representatives." “If all 1,200 National Guardsmen are deployed, they will represent only a 6.5% increase in personnel assigned to patrol the border. The President has apparently decided to make a symbolic statement about border security. It is a small step, but in the right direction.” #
05.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement after learning of remarks made by John Morton, Assistant Secretary of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (I.C.E.), which call Morton’s commitment to enforcing the nation’s immigration laws into question. According to the Chicago Tribune, Morton stated that his agency “will not necessarily process immigrants referred to them by Arizona officials” for deportation. Morton justified his position by asserting that Arizona’s newly enacted law targeting illegal immigration was, in his opinion, not representative of “good government.” “Contrary to the views of Assistant Secretary Morton, and contrary to the views of the Obama Administration, enforcing the nation’s immigration laws is ‘good government’,” said King. “Mr. Morton should realize that in his role at Immigration and Customs Enforcement, he is entrusted with the responsibility to ensure the enforcement of the laws that are on the books. Nothing grants Mr. Morton the ability to ignore the application of the United States’ immigration laws simply because he has personal objections to them.” “If Mr. Morton wants to be in a position in which his preferred policy objectives can be given the force of law, perhaps he should run for Congress so that he may have a hand in drafting legislation. Until such time, he should remember that the American people expect him either to fully enforce the nation’s immigration laws as written or to make way for those who will.” #
05.19.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement after news reports of Zeituni Onyango, President Obama’s aunt, was granted asylum in the United States. “Traditionally, asylum has been granted to those that demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution in their home countries. A judge granted President Obama’s aunt amnesty through asylum despite her blatant disregard for the Rule of Law. Ms. Onyango has been living in the country illegally since her first application for asylum was rejected and she was ordered to be deported in 2004. The New York Times reports that Ms. Onyango was requesting asylum because she would face undue attention and perhaps danger in Kenya because of her relationship to President Obama.” “The American people deserve to know if Ms. Onyango was objectively granted asylum. No one is above the Rule of Law and we should not be granting an individual amnesty based solely on that person’s relationship to public figures. President Obama and Ms. Onyango should open the record to ensure transparency for the American people and clear any allegations of favoritism or judicial bias.”
05.19.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement regarding newly released information about the number of out of state couples who have received same-sex marriages in Iowa. “Just over one year ago, when the Iowa Supreme Court decided to ignore Iowa law and grant same sex couples the ability to get married in our state, I predicted that the decision, absent action by the state legislature to enact a marriage license residency requirement, would turn Iowa into the gay marriage Mecca.” King said. “Now, the Iowa Department of Public Health is reporting that of the more than 2,000 same-sex couples who were married in Iowa between April 27, 2009, and March 31, 2010, sixty percent were from out of state,” said King. “Unfortunately, we’ve seen another legislative session pass without action on either a constitutional amendment to overturn the court’s decision, or a marriage license residency requirement to keep the harmful effects of the court’s decision from being imported by ‘altar shoppers’ into other states. “This new report from the Department of Public Health reemphasizes the short-sightedness of the court’s decision to enact a same-sex marriage law from the bench, and it provides even more evidence of the need for a residency requirement and a constitutional amendment to repeal it.”
05.10.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today made the following statement on President Obama’s nomination of Elena Kagan to the United States Supreme Court. “The Supreme Court is charged with interpreting the Constitution as it was written, but instead its recent activism has amended it as the justices would like to rewrite it. Nearly all of the social conflict in this country stems from the Court’s extra-constitutional interference with the voice of the people. The very last people in America who should be amending the Constitution are the Supreme Court justices.” “President Obama's decision to nominate Elena Kagan to the Supreme Court demonstrates his willingness to sacrifice experience and judicial impartiality for political activism. Despite Ms. Kagan's lack of judicial experience and limited legal practice, it is clear that she will use her position to push her personal and political agenda."
05.06.2010	Congressman Steve King has been named a recipient of an ACU Ratings of Congress award for 2009 by the national organization, the American Conservative Union (ACU). The award is based on votes held during the first session of the 111th Congress. King scored a 96% on ACU’s scorecard. “I’m honored to receive this recognition from the American Conservative Union,” King said. “This award represents the values and beliefs that built our nation.” The American Conservative Union is America’s oldest and largest grassroots conservative organization. For 39 years, its annual ratings have been widely regarded as the “gold standard,” the definitive conservative assessment of the federal legislative branch. “This award is a reflection of Representative Steve King’s consistent support of conservative principles on a wide range of issues of concern to grass roots conservatives in 2009,” ACU Chairman David A. Keene said. “At a challenging time when the fundamental principles on which the American system of government are being challenged, Representative Steve King stands with those who are trying to preserve those principles.”
04.26.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA), the Ranking Member on the House Immigration Subcommittee, today made the following statement regarding Arizona’s recently passed law that requires proof of legal status and empowers state and local law enforcement officials to enforce immigration law. “Under Secretary Janet Napolitano, the Department of Homeland Security has allowed law enforcement officials to ignore immigration laws already on the books so this Administration’s political agenda can be achieved,” King said. “The ‘open borders’ Obama Administration has postured itself in favor of amnesty over the Rule of Law. Now states like Arizona are being forced to step up and fill the void left by DHS and the Obama Administration. I commend Arizona for standing up for the Rule of Law and protecting American workers. This is the time for the Obama Administration to accelerate enforcement of immigration laws to make room for unemployed Americans, not grant amnesty.”
04.16.2010	King’s schedule follows:Monday, April 19, 2010Town Hall Meeting in Council Bluffs 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Iowa Western Community College, Looft Hall Auditorium, 2700 College Road, Council BluffsTown Hall Meeting in Sioux City 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Western Iowa Tech Community College, Cargill Auditorium, 4647 Stone Avenue, Sioux City
04.07.2010	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released a statement objecting to the presence of the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) at a recent National 4-H Conference. King’s purpose is to inform 4-H leaders and members of the extreme anti-animal agriculture agenda of HSUS.“The Humane Society of the United States is a political machine masquerading as an umbrella organization for local humane societies,” King said. “HSUS bills itself as an animal care organization but it spends less than 1% of its $100 million annual budget on direct animal care. Instead, HSUS solicits money from well-intentioned but often uninformed animal lovers and uses these donations to lobby Congress for an anti-meat, anti-animal agriculture agenda. HSUS is run by vegetarians with an agenda whose goal is to take meat off everyone’s table in America.” On March 23, 2010, the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) led a session entitled “Animal Instincts: Service Learning and Animal Welfare" at the National 4-H Conference. Leaders of the Humane Society of the United States have made past statements indicating they would like to see animal agriculture end. John “J.P.” Goodwin, the manager of Animal Fighting Issues at HSUS, told AR-Views, an animal rights Internet discussion group, that his “goal is the abolition of all animal agriculture.” Wayne Pacelle, president of the Humane Society of the United States, told Animal People News his stated goal is to create “a National Rifle Association of the animal rights movement,” and he implemented a “no animal products in the office” policy shortly after becoming HSUS President.“4-H has a rich history of livestock care and production,” King said. “In the summer, 4-H members put in long hours raising and training animals for county fairs across the country. What could 4-H leaders be thinking to invite HSUS to make a presentation to young 4-Hers? The livestock industry can’t be very happy with their decision. 4-H invited an organization actively working against animal agriculture, a staple component of 4-H programs, to present at its national conference.”
03.26.2010	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) this week introduced legislation that will completely repeal Obamacare. Text of his legislation (H.R. 4972) follows: Effective as of the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, such Act is repealed, and the provisions of law amended or repealed by such Act are restored or revived as if such Act had not been enacted. “Today the work begins to repeal Obamacare and restore the principles of liberty that made America a great nation,” King said. “The American people must take their country back by methodically eliminating every vestige of creeping socialism, including socialized medicine. The Pelosi Democrats will pay a price for their overreach. This fight is far from over.”
03.24.2010	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today made the following statement regarding President Barack Obama’s visit to Iowa on Thursday. “I want to thank President Obama for coming to Iowa, and I welcome him back to the Midwest. We always look forward to seeing Air Force One on Iowa soil. Anytime the sitting President of the United States visits your state, it is a good thing. President Obama recognizes that Iowa represents the heartland of America, and I commend him for his interest in our state.”
03.22.2010	Click below for the text of a bill Congressman King is introducing this week to repeal the health care bill that passed last night. Congressman King’s statement on his bill is below: “Today the work begins to repeal Obamacare and restore the principles of liberty that made America a great nation. The American people must take their country back by methodically eliminating every vestige of creeping socialism, including socialized medicine. The Pelosi Democrats will pay a price for their overreach. This fight is far from over.”
03.22.2010	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today made the following statement about legislation he will introduce that will completely repeal Obamacare. “Today the work begins to repeal Obamacare and restore the principles of liberty that made America a great nation. The American people must take their country back by methodically eliminating every vestige of creeping socialism, including socialized medicine. The Pelosi Democrats will pay a price for their overreach. This fight is far from over.”
03.21.2010	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) tonight made the following statement following the passage of the liberal health care bill. “The majority of Americans, including the tens of thousands of patriots who poured into Washington, DC this weekend, will not stand by while Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi tear the Constitution to shreds. This bill forces Americans to pay for other people's abortions, puts the government in charge of 18 percent of our private sector economy, provides health care benefits to illegal immigrants, cuts half a trillion dollars from Medicare and diminishes our liberty. “Americans across the country are outraged that liberals have made an unconstitutional bill full of special interest bribes the law of the land. Democrats will pay a price for their overreach. This fight is far from over. Now the work begins to repeal this monstrosity and restore the principles of freedom that made America a great nation.”
03.19.2010	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today issued the following statement regarding National Agriculture Week: Celebrating Iowa’s Agriculture Industry Congressman Steve King This week is National Agriculture Week, and it is a time to assess the state of the agriculture industry and to celebrate recent accomplishments in Iowa agriculture. As I reflect on the snowy winter that just passed and a spring season that will be punctuated with corn planting in Iowa, the creed for the National FFA Organization sticks in my head. That creed begins with “I believe in the future of agriculture.” These words have never been truer at any time other than right now. I believe in the future of agriculture, and more importantly, I believe in the future of agriculture in western Iowa. The thirty-six thousand hard-working farmers in western Iowa deserve a round of applause for their work over the past year. Western Iowa farmers are national leaders in the production of corn, soybeans, eggs, beef and pork. If you were to place a dollar value on western Iowa’s annual agriculture production, the total would be approximately $4.5 billion per year. The livestock industry has a long history of success and tradition in western Iowa. We continue that tradition by transferring those skills of animal husbandry from one generation to the next. These farmers produce meat, eggs and milk of the highest quality to help meet the nutritional needs of the people throughout our nation and across the world. Farmers in the Fifth District are also doing their share to wean the United States off of Middle Eastern oil. They are producing corn that can be turned into ethanol, which can be used as an alternative to gasoline. They are growing soybeans that are turned into bio-diesel, which is used to displace diesel fuel refined from Middle Eastern oil. Our farmers are also leasing small parcels of land to wind energy companies, allowing wind turbines in western Iowa to harvest the energy of the wind. Each of these puzzle pieces goes together to help reduce our dependence on Middle Eastern oil. Iowa farmers are also leading the way in agriculture exports. In 2008, Iowa’s cash farm receipts totaled $25 billion. Iowa ranked second among all 50 states in agricultural exports, with total exports estimated to be $7.8 billion. Iowa continues to lead all states in the exportation of soybeans and feed grains. All of these remarkable statistics show that Iowa has the best farming operations in the world and that the future of agriculture is bright in our state. But beyond the impressive numbers, the character and work ethic of Iowa farmers make our communities great places to live and work. This week, we give thanks for the successes of Iowa farmers over the past year. We also recognize and celebrate the longstanding and unique contributions that Iowa farmers have made throughout our state and the world.
03.16.2010	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today made the following statement regarding efforts to use a process known as reconciliation to pass a health care bill this week. “Liberals are poised to make a bill full of special interest bribes the law of the land. The law of the land would include the ‘Cornhusker Kickback,’ the ‘Louisiana Purchase,’ the ‘Florida Gatorade’ and other special deals in order to buy votes for this monstrosity. “Liberal Democrats are willing exploit the rules to pass any bill they can claim as health care reform. A piece of legislation that neither body can actually pass today could very well become law in the next week. The Founding Fathers never envisioned that there would be legislation that passed both chambers of this Congress that neither chamber would accept. “Let’s scrap this bad bill and work on a series of stand-alone health care bills. Let’s have up or down votes on lawsuit abuse reform, purchasing health insurance across state lines and other common-sense, bi-partisan ideas that a majority of the American people support.”
03.11.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA), the Ranking Member on the House Immigration Subcommittee, made the following statement regarding the immigration meeting held today at the White House to discuss a comprehensive immigration reform bill that includes amnesty. “Americans have rejected amnesty in 2006 and 2007, and they will reject it again if the Obama Administration tries to force it upon them. It is wrong to reward immigration law breakers. “If President Obama is serious about addressing the immigration issue, he needs to focus on the millions of Americans who are out of work or worried about losing their jobs. This is the time for the Obama Administration to accelerate enforcement of immigration laws to make room for unemployed Americans, not grant amnesty. We must not reward lawbreakers at the expense of hard-working and smart-working Americans.”
03.10.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA), the Ranking Member on the House Immigration Subcommittee, today spoke against illegal aliens receiving health care benefits under President Obama’s health care reform proposal: “Americans are frustrated by an Administration and a liberal Congress that insists on passing a flawed health care bill rejected by a large majority of Americans on both sides of the political fence,” King said. “Without appropriate citizen verification requirements, this failed bill will provide health benefits to illegal aliens and will become a launching pad for the Obama Administration’s amnesty agenda. ‘Rahming’ a bill benefiting illegal aliens through Congress would be the ultimate insult to frustrated citizens.” According to the Congressional Budget Office’s calculations, the original Senate health care bill that passed in December 2009 could give up to 6.1 million illegal immigrants access to health benefits. “Taxpaying families, already weighed down by bailouts and massive spending bills, cannot afford to pay for health insurance for millions of illegal aliens,” King said. “It is wrong to reward immigration law breakers. Americans have rejected amnesty in 2006 and 2007, and they will reject it again if the Obama Administration forces it upon them.”
03.09.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The National Taxpayers Union recently announced that Congressman Steve King has earned the annual Taxpayers’ Friend award. The award honors Members of Congress who have a strong voting record on reducing spending and opposing higher taxes. "Only the best advocates for limited government in Congress earn the title 'Taxpayers' Friend,' and we're proud to once again recognize Steve King for this great achievement,” NTU Vice President for Policy & Communications Pete Sepp said. “Day in and day out, Steve King showed leadership on behalf of overburdened taxpayers in Iowa and across the nation. If every lawmaker had voted as thoughtfully and carefully as he did in 2009, Americans would enjoy lower taxes, a smaller national debt and a better economy than they do today." Every year, the National Taxpayers Union rates U.S. Representatives and Senators on every vote that affects taxes, spending, and debt. Each vote is weighted based on its effect on federal spending. The 2009 award is based on 333 House votes affecting fiscal policy during the first session of the 111th Congress. 55 Members of the House and Senate attained scores sufficient to earn the Taxpayers’ Friend award. “I am grateful to receive this award from the National Taxpayers Union,” King said. “The principles this award is based upon will restore our nation’s economic strength and prosperity and create more good-paying jobs.”
03.04.2010	Congressman Steve King made the following statement after signing on as a co-sponsor of H.J.Res. 77, a resolution that disapproves of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) attempt to establish a hidden energy tax by labeling carbon dioxide a regulated pollutant under the Clean Air Act. “The EPA’s classification of carbon dioxide as a pollutant is irresponsible and makes no sense. The government cannot seriously expect to regulate the very thing we exhale. “This is a backdoor attempt by the Obama Administration and the radically liberal EPA to institute a national energy tax that will harm American businesses and workers. With unemployment at 9.7% and 15.3 million Americans out of work, we must not create incentives for companies to move more jobs overseas.”
03.03.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement regarding a new health care proposal introduced by President Barack Obama. “Even with a few Republican ideas sprinkled in, President Obama’s amended national health care bill is simply a new brew of the same toxic stew America has already rejected. We saw it in Virginia, New Jersey and Massachusetts. We’ve seen it at tea parties and town hall meetings across the country. A large majority of Americans do not want national health care by the bowlful, the ladleful or the spoonful. “Let’s take this toxic stew, created in the backrooms of Washington and flavored to please special interest groups and lobbyists, and dump it out. Republicans and Democrats should come to the table and work on common sense, stand-alone legislation that the American people can clearly see negotiated in the light of day.”
03.03.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today announced that the Halbur Fire Department will receive a $40,375 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. “I am pleased to announce this grant, which will significantly increase safety in Carroll County,” King said. “I applaud the brave men and women of the Halbur Fire Department who sacrifice their own safety to protect our communities.” BACKGROUND: - The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $4 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. During fiscal year (FY) 2009, the AFG will award another $565 million to first-responder organizations that need support to improve their capability to respond to fires and emergencies of all types.
03.02.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today announced the issuing of a second major disaster declaration for the State of Iowa. This declaration will benefit Iowa counties that recently suffered significant damage from severe winter weather during storms occurring January 19 - 26, 2010. Counties designated for public assistance include Adair, Audubon, Calhoun, Carroll, Cass, Crawford, Guthrie, Harrison, Madison, Pottawattamie, Sac and Shelby. A declaration issued last week will benefit Iowa counties that recently suffered significant damage from severe winter weather during storms occurring December 23 – 27, 2009. Counties designated for public assistance under that declaration include Adair, Audubon, Buena Vista, Calhoun, Carroll, Cass, Cherokee, Clay, Crawford, Emmet, Franklin, Fremont, Guthrie, Harrison, Ida, Monona, Page, Pottawattamie, Sac, Shelby, Sioux and Woodbury. “With a storm of this magnitude, the approval of a Public Assistance Declaration is necessary,” King said. “Even though most of the affected counties were in the Fifth Congressional District, I would like to thank the Iowa House delegation for coming together on this issue. Our local governments also deserve praise for their efforts in dealing with the storm. While there is still much work to be done, we cannot possibly calculate the value of the work already accomplished by our private citizens. Even storms of historic proportions are no match for western Iowans with resilient attitudes, strong work ethics and great pride in our communities.” On January 29, House Members of the Iowa Congressional delegation sent the following letters to President Barack Obama asking that major disaster declaration requests made by Iowa Governor Chet Culver be approved. The letters follow: January 29, 2010 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D. C. Dear Mr. President, We respectfully request that you grant the request made January 28, 2010, by Iowa Governor Chet Culver, for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Iowa as a result of damages from a severe winter storm and snow storm that began December 23 and continued through December 27, 2009, in Adair, Audubon, Buena Vista, Calhoun, Carroll, Cass, Cherokee, Clay, Crawford, Emmet, Franklin, Fremont, Guthrie, Harrison, Ida, Lyon, Mills, Monona, Osceola, Page, Palo Alto, Pocahontas, Pottawattamie, Sac, Shelby, Sioux, and Woodbury Counties. Governor Culver has determined that this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments and that supplementary Federal assistance is needed. We thank you for your prompt consideration of this request. Sincerely, Steve King Tom Latham Leonard Boswell Bruce Braley Dave Loebsack Members of Congress January 29, 2010 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D. C. Dear Mr. President, We respectfully request that you grant the request made January 28, 2010, by Iowa Governor Chet Culver, for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Iowa as a result of damages from a severe winter storm that began January 19 and continued through January 26, 2010, in Adair, Audubon, Calhoun, Carroll, Cass, Crawford, Guthrie, Harrison, Madison, Pottawattamie, Sac, and Shelby Counties. Governor Culver has determined that this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments and that supplementary Federal assistance is needed. We thank you for your prompt consideration of this request. Sincerely, Steve King Tom Latham Leonard Boswell Bruce Braley Dave Loebsack Members of Congress NOTE: As FEMA is working in your communities on the declaration, Congressman King’s office can be contacted at 712-224-4692 for assistance.
02.24.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today announced the issuing of a major disaster declaration for the State of Iowa. This declaration will benefit Iowa counties that recently suffered significant damage from severe winter weather during storms occurring December 23 – 27, 2009. Counties designated for public assistance include Adair, Audubon, Calhoun, Carroll, Cass, Cherokee, Clay, Crawford, Emmet, Franklin, Fremont, Guthrie, Harrison, Ida, Monona, Page, Pottawattamie, Sac, Shelby, Sioux and Woodbury. “With a storm of this magnitude, the approval of a Public Assistance Declaration is necessary,” King said. “Even though most of the affected counties were in the Fifth Congressional District, I would like to thank the Iowa House delegation for coming together on this issue. Our local governments also deserve praise for their efforts in dealing with the storm. While there is still much work to be done, we cannot possibly calculate the value of the work already accomplished by our private citizens. Even storms of historic proportions are no match for western Iowans with resilient attitudes, strong work ethics and great pride in our communities.” On January 29, House Members of the Iowa Congressional delegation sent the following letter to President Barack Obama asking that a major disaster declaration request made by Iowa Governor Chet Culver be approved. The letter follows: January 29, 2010 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D. C. Dear Mr. President, We respectfully request that you grant the request made January 28, 2010, by Iowa Governor Chet Culver, for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Iowa as a result of damages from a severe winter storm and snow storm that began December 23 and continued through December 27, 2009, in Adair, Audubon, Buena Vista, Calhoun, Carroll, Cass, Cherokee, Clay, Crawford, Emmet, Franklin, Fremont, Guthrie, Harrison, Ida, Lyon, Mills, Monona, Osceola, Page, Palo Alto, Pocahontas, Pottawattamie, Sac, Shelby, Sioux, and Woodbury Counties. Governor Culver has determined that this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments and that supplementary Federal assistance is needed. We thank you for your prompt consideration of this request. Sincerely, Steve King Tom Latham Leonard Boswell Bruce Braley Dave Loebsack Members of Congress
02.15.2010	Washington D.C.- Congressman Steve King (R-IA) released the following statement to commemorate the opening of a new section of four-lane U.S. 20 between Rockwell City and Moorland. Congressman King’s top transportation priority as a Member of Congress is the completion of four-lane U.S. 20 statewide from Sioux City to Dubuque. “Four-laning U.S. 20 across our state is critical to the economic development of western Iowa,” said King. “Today’s ribbon-cutting ceremony celebrating the opening of the new four-lane segment of U.S. 20 from Rockwell City to Moorland marks another step towards completion of this important project.” “Once U.S. 20 becomes a four-lane highway from Sioux City to Dubuque, it will become a ‘Midwest Connector’ that will foster Iowa’s economic growth and prosperity by attracting new residents and businesses to the area, by expanding markets for existing business, and by propelling new industries across the state. It remains my top transportation priority in Congress, and I look forward to continuing to work with the Iowa Department of Transportation and the U.S. 20 Corridor Association until the last mile has been paved.” #
02.05.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Small Business Committee, today made the following statement in response to House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer’s comments in support of raising taxes on Americans earning more than $250,000, many of whom are small business owners. A 2006 National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) survey revealed that about eight out of 10 small-business owners are legally organized in a way that requires them to pay taxes on their business income as individuals, and three-quarters of filers paying at the top two marginal tax rates are small-business owners. “I started a small business in 1975 and operated it for 28 years and met payroll every week for over 1,400 consecutive weeks. I have met the challenges of recession, high taxes, over regulation, inflation, and high interest rates. Raising taxes on small business owners will force more layoffs and force some small businesses to close the doors and call the auctioneer. “Just in Iowa, small businesses employ 668,226 people per year, and some of these jobs will be lost if tax hikes go through. There are better solutions to grow the economy, create good-paying jobs and bring down the deficit. Long-term tax cuts work for everyone in America, and we need to extend the tax cuts passed which were signed into law on March 28, 2003.” Read Majority Leader Hoyer’s comments here.
02.05.2010	The following Members of the House of Representatives have signed the Declaration of Health Care Independence (as of February 26, 2010): W. Todd Akin, MO – 01 Steve Austria, OH – 07 Michele Bachmann, MN – 06 Spencer Bachus, AL – 06 J. Gresham Barrett, SC – 03 Roscoe G. Bartlett, MD – 06 Joe Barton, TX – 06 Gus M. Bilirakis, FL – 09 Rob Bishop, UT – 01 Marsha Blackburn, TN – 07 Roy Blunt, MO – 07 Jo Bonner, AL – 01 John Boozman, AR – 03 Charles Boustany, LA – 07 Paul C. Broun, GA – 10 Ginny Brown-Waite, FL – 05 Michael C. Burgess, TX – 26 Dan Burton, IN – 05 John R. Carter, TX – 31 Bill Cassidy, LA – 06 Howard Coble, NC – 06 Mike Coffman, CO – 06 Tom Cole, OK – 04 K. Michael Conaway, TX – 11 Ander Crenshaw, FL – 04 John Abney Culberson, TX – 07 Geoff Davis, KY – 04 Nathan Deal, GA – 09 John J. Duncan, Jr., TN – 02 Mary Fallin, OK – 05 John Fleming, LA – 04 J. Randy Forbes, VA – 04 Trent Franks, AZ – 02 Scott Garrett, NJ – 05 Phil Gingrey, GA – 11 Louie Gohmert, TX – 01 Bob Goodlatte, VA – 06 Kay Granger, TX – 12 Sam Graves, MO – 06 Brett Guthrie, KY – 02 Ralph M. Hall, TX – 04 Doc Hastings, WA – 04 Dean Heller, NV – 02 Jeb Hensarling, TX – 05 Peter Hoekstra, MI – 02 Sam Johnson, TX – 03 Steve King, IA – 05 Jack Kingston, GA – 01 John Kline, MN – 02 Doug Lamborn, CO – 05 Robert E. Latta, OH – 05 John Linder, GA – 07 Frank D. Lucas, OK – 03 Blaine Luetkemeyer, MO – 09 Cynthia M. Lummis, WY—At Large Donald A. Manzullo, IL – 16 Kenny Marchant, TX – 24 Patrick McHenry, NC – 10 Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, CA – 25 Cathy McMorris Rogers, WA – 05 Candice Miller, MI – 10 Jeff Miller, FL – 01 Jerry Moran, KS – 01 Sue Wilkins Myrick, NC – 09 Randy Neugebauer, TX – 19 Devin Nunes, CA – 21 Pete Olson, TX – 22 Mike Pence, IN – 06 Thomas E. Petri, WI – 06 Joseph R. Pitts, PA – 16 Todd Russell Platts, PA – 19 Bill Posey, FL – 15 Tom Price, GA – 06 Adam Putnam, FL – 12 David G. Reichert, WA – 08 David P. Roe, TN – 01 Mike Rogers, AL – 03 Dana Rohrabacher, CA – 46 Thomas J. Rooney, FL – 16 Steve Scalise, LA – 01 Jean Schmidt, OH – 02 F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr., WI – 05 John B. Shadegg, AZ – 03 Bill Shuster, PA – 09 Lamar Smith, TX – 21 Mark E. Souder, IN – 03 Cliff Stearns, FL – 06 John Sullivan, OK – 01 Lee Terry, NE – 02 Glenn Thompson, PA – 05 Todd Tiahrt, KS – 04 Patrick J. Tiberi, OH – 12 Michael R. Turner, OH – 03 Zach Wamp, TN – 03 Lynn A. Westmoreland, GA – 03 Joe Wilson, SC – 02
02.04.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, a Member of the House Judiciary Committee, today made the following statement regarding the Senate Judiciary Committee’s postponement of a vote on the nomination of Dawn Johnsen to head the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel. King has previously called on President Obama to withdraw his nomination of Dawn Johnsen and written letters (letter 1, letter 2) to the President calling for her nomination to be withdrawn. The first letter was signed by 62 other House Members. King’s statement follows: “Nominating Dawn Johnsen to head the Office of Legal Counsel is an insult to pro-life Americans. Her personal pro-abortion agenda, previous disparaging comments about pro-life Americans and past criticism of Congress' ban on partial-birth abortion are evidence that she is not interested in finding common ground with those who oppose her narrow philosophy. Ms. Johnsen has condemned virtually every type of regulation of abortion conceived by a legislature. “It is my hope that President Obama will withdraw her nomination. I encourage all Americans who value life to contact the White House and their Senators to demand that President Obama nominate an OLC chief who will not detract from his stated goal of reducing abortions and finding common ground on life issues.”
02.02.2010	Congressman Steve King today made a packet of information for recently displaced workers available on his website. The packet includes information about rapid response services for laid off workers, Iowa Workforce Development and Department of Labor phone numbers, unemployment insurance, training opportunities and the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act. The full packet is available below and can also be picked up at Congressman King’s Council Bluffs office, located at 40 Pearl Street, Council Bluffs, IA 51503, or his Sioux City office, located at 526 Nebraska Street, Sioux City, IA 51101. “Given the current economic crisis, it will take the efforts of all local, state and federal agencies to assist the workers losing their jobs,” Congressman King said. “I and my staff stand ready to assist those affected. I am confident in the resilience of western Iowans. We all need to do all we can to help the hundreds of laid off workers transition into other employment.”
01.29.2010	Congressman Steve King and 105 House Members sent the following letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi regarding marriage penalties included in both the House-passed and Senate-passed health care bills. The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232 Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Madam Speaker: While there are many points of disagreement on the pending health care bill, one area where hopefully there can be bipartisan agreement is that the federal government should not penalize people simply for being married. Recent press reports have highlighted that the new subsidy structures in both the House- and Senate-passed bills contain significant marriage penalties. For example, in the House-passed bill, an unmarried couple with income of $25,000 each would have their combined premiums capped at $3,076 per year. If the couple gets married, and thus has a combined annual income of $50,000, their annual premium cap jumps to $5,160 for the same insurance. In short, there is a $2,084 penalty for simply being married. While under the Senate-passed bill it would be less, the marriage penalty would still exceed $1,500 a year. Republicans and Democrats have worked together in the past to reduce the marriage penalty that exists in the tax code for all couples and to eliminate it for those making $68,000 or less. After eliminating the most significant marriage penalty for these families, Congress should not now impose a brand new one. Simply put, government policy should not be constructed in such a way that either discourages individuals from marrying or provides an incentive for couples to divorce. The imposition of a marriage penalty on middle class families has no place as part of any health care bill.
01.29.2010	House Members of the Iowa Congressional delegation today sent the following letters to President Barack Obama asking that two major disaster declaration requests made by Iowa Governor Chet Culver be approved for Iowa counties that have recently suffered significant damage from severe winter weather. Culver made the official request for the declarations on Thursday. The letters follow: January 29, 2010 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D. C. Dear Mr. President, We respectfully request that you grant the request made January 28, 2010, by Iowa Governor Chet Culver, for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Iowa as a result of damages from a severe winter storm and snow storm that began December 23 and continued through December 27, 2009, in Adair, Audubon, Buena Vista, Calhoun, Carroll, Cass, Cherokee, Clay, Crawford, Emmet, Franklin, Fremont, Guthrie, Harrison, Ida, Lyon, Mills, Monona, Osceola, Page, Palo Alto, Pocahontas, Pottawattamie, Sac, Shelby, Sioux, and Woodbury Counties. Governor Culver has determined that this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments and that supplementary Federal assistance is needed. We thank you for your prompt consideration of this request. Sincerely, Steve King Tom Latham Leonard Boswell Bruce Braley Dave Loebsack Members of Congress January 29, 2010 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D. C. Dear Mr. President, We respectfully request that you grant the request made January 28, 2010, by Iowa Governor Chet Culver, for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Iowa as a result of damages from a severe winter storm that began January 19 and continued through January 26, 2010, in Adair, Audubon, Calhoun, Carroll, Cass, Crawford, Guthrie, Harrison, Madison, Pottawattamie, Sac, and Shelby Counties. Governor Culver has determined that this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments and that supplementary Federal assistance is needed. We thank you for your prompt consideration of this request. Sincerely, Steve King Tom Latham Leonard Boswell Bruce Braley Dave Loebsack Members of Congress
01.27.2010	Congressman Steve King tonight made the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address.“President Obama's health care plan was killed in Massachusetts by the election of Scott Brown. He has shut out every Republican proposal despite making a public promise to work with Republicans. He did not respond to repeated requests for meetings and repeated letters. There is no reason to take him seriously now. "The President claimed that he is fulfilling his campaign promise on Iraq by pulling troops out. His campaign promise was to accept defeat and retreat from Iraq. But the surge achieved victory with honor allowing our troops to come home victorious and on schedule with President Bush's November 17, 2008 plan."
01.27.2010	Congressman Steve King, along with House Republicans, today unveiled the Declaration of Health Care Independence, a commitment to protect the rights of the American people to make their own health decisions, reduce bureaucratic red-tape, decrease intergenerational debt and includes ten common-sense principles that must be included in future health care reforms. A copy of the Declaration of Health Care Independence is below: Declaration of Health Care Independence In order to retain the Blessings of Liberty as secured to us by our Founding Fathers and as expressed in our Constitution, We the People reject the imposition upon us of a new, Washington-controlled system of government-run health care. We demand Constitutional protection of the right to make our own health decisions and our own health care choices free of government denials, bureaucratic red-tape, and greater intergenerational debt. A Washington takeover of American health care will 1) Deny fundamental personal and economic liberties and indisputably violate the Principle of Limited Government as established by the Constitution; 2) Impose increased costs and taxes upon individuals, families, and businesses, as well as taxpayers at the federal, state, and local levels; 3) Irreparably cripple the American economy, at the cost of jobs, businesses, productivity, and quality of life; 4) Create an inescapable new tax by imposing individual and employer mandates; 5) Institutionalize a massive, ever-expanding federal bureaucracy that is impersonal and impractical; 6) Empower bureaucrats to interfere in the doctor-patient relationship, undermine the quality of care, limit choice, and increase the cost of health care. We have appealed to the decency of the elected majority to respect the rights of all Americans, but their leaders have been deaf to the Voice of the People. We are appalled by their cavalier disregard of the Constitution and of the demands of the People. We are repulsed by their blatant political bribes and kickbacks. We, therefore, the People and Representatives of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, do solemnly Publish and Declare that health care reform, as a matter of principle must 1) Protect as inviolate the vital doctor-patient relationship; 2) Reject any addition to the crushing national debt heaped upon all Americans; 3) Improve, rather than diminish, the quality of care that Americans enjoy; 4) Be negotiated publically, transparently, with genuine accountability and oversight, and be free from political favoritism; 5) Treat private citizens at least as well as political officials; 6) Protect taxpayers from funding of abortion and abortion coverage; 7) Reject all new mandates on patients, employers, individuals, or states; 8) Prohibit expansion of taxpayer funded health care to those unlawfully present in the United States; 9) Guarantee Equal Protection under the law and the Constitution; 10) Empower, rather than limit, an open and accessible marketplace of health care choice and opportunity.
01.27.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, along with House and Senate Republicans, will formally unveil the Declaration of Health Care Independence on January 27 at 2:30 p.m. in HVC-201. The Declaration of Health Care Independence is a commitment to protect the rights of the American people to make their own health decisions, reduce bureaucratic red-tape, decrease intergenerational debt and includes ten common-sense principles that must be included in future health care reforms. WHO: Congressman Steve King and other House & Senate Republicans WHAT: Press Conference to formally unveil the Declaration of Health Care Independence WHEN: Wednesday, January 27th @ 2:30 p.m. WHERE: U.S. Capitol, HVC-201
01.25.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement regarding plans by Tyson Foods Inc. to cut 480 employees at its Council Bluffs plant. “This is a difficult time for the workers and families affected by these job cuts. I and my staff stand ready to help where we can. Especially in these hard economic times, we need a strong network of families, faith, and government to bridge this employment chasm and help transition the displaced workers to other employment. Given the current economic crisis, it will take the efforts of all local, state and federal agencies to assist the workers losing their jobs. “My hope is many of these workers will be re-hired when the economy improves. I remain confident in the resilience of Iowans and Nebraskans. It will serve us well as we deal with these job losses.”
01.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA), a member of the House Judiciary Committee, today made the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission. This decision upheld the First Amendment rights of individuals and businesses. “The First Amendment to the Constitution clearly states that Congress shall make no law ‘abridging the freedom of speech.’ The Constitution protects the rights of citizens and employers to express their viewpoints on political issues. Today’s Supreme Court decision affirms the Bill of Rights and is a victory for liberty and free speech.”
01.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today sent the following letter to President Obama asking him to withdraw his nomination of Dawn Johnsen to head the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel. According to Roll Call, earlier today Senator Ben Nelson (D-NE) predicted that “Dawn Johnsen’s controversial nomination to head the Office of Legal Counsel won’t come up this year.” Read more: http://www.rollcall.com/news/42435-1.html?type=printer_friendly. King’s letter follows: January 20, 2010 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, In a March 24, 2009 letter, I, along with 62 of my colleagues, respectfully requested that you withdraw your nomination of Ms. Dawn Johnsen to head the Office of Legal Counsel. To date, we have received no response to our letter. On January 7, 2010, you demonstrated a lack of attention to this issue by nominating Ms. Johnsen again for this position. Dawn Johnsen’s pro-abortion agenda is a stark contrast to your stated intention to find common ground on the issue of abortion. She has condemned virtually every type of regulation of abortion conceived by a legislature, no matter how mild the regulation or how shocking the practice regulated, as unacceptable. In a Supreme Court amicus brief that she authored, Ms. Johnsen wrote, “While a woman might choose to bear children gladly and voluntarily, statutes that curtail her abortion choice are disturbingly suggestive of involuntary servitude, prohibited by the Thirteenth Amendment, in that forced pregnancy requires a woman to provide continuous physical service to the fetus in order to further the state’s asserted interest.” Ms. Johnsen also included that “abortion restrictions ‘reduce pregnant women to no more than fetal container.’” Ms. Johnsen’s record demonstrates that she is incapable of placing the Rule of Law above her political philosophy or personal agenda. The Office of Legal Counsel needs a leader that will respect the Constitution and resist the temptation to substitute personal ideology for sound legal reasoning. I respectfully request that you withdraw Dawn Johnsen’s nomination to head the Office of Legal Counsel. I have enclosed a copy of the March 24, 2009 letter for your convenience. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Steve King Member of Congress
01.20.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement regarding plans by Smithfield Foods to close its John Morrell & Co. pork plant in Sioux City in 90 days. “The John Morrell fresh pork plant has been one of the largest employers in Sioux City for decades. The announcement of its impending closing not only affects the 1,400 employees at the plant, but also other area businesses that serve this facility. Pork producers are also affected at a very tough time in their industry since they will lose a competitive market that is centrally located in the tri-state area. “Given the current economic crisis, it will take the efforts of all local, state and federal agencies to assist the workers losing their jobs. I and my staff stand ready to assist those affected. “I am confident in the resilience of western Iowans. It will serve us well as we deal with the loss of a major employer in the Siouxland area.”
01.14.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement after signing a petition to discharge H.Res. 847 - the “Sunshine Resolution” - from the House Committee on Rules. H.Res. 847 expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that any meetings held to determine the final content of sweeping health care legislation be held in public view and not behind closed doors: Currently, 151 bipartisan Members are cosponsors of H.Res. 847. Once this discharge petition reaches 218 signatures, liberals will have to do what they promised – open up the negotiations for the public to see. King’s statement follows: “We have reached the point where President Obama, Speaker Pelosi and Senator Reid command America as a ruling troika. Their ability to bribe legislators in secret back room dealing is the only check and balance on the power of this Ruling Troika. No Congressional action, previously taken, binds in any way the decisions they make as they write a brand new socialized medicine bill whose purpose is to expand a dependency class to perpetuate the ruling class. “Thomas Jefferson once said, ‘Large initiatives should not be advanced on slender majorities.’ The Troika, operating with the secrecy of the KGB, is drafting and crafting a socialized medicine plan designed to get the minimum number of votes. They will produce a final bill that, as much as possible, looks like the world of Karl Marx and as little as possible like that of Adam Smith. “Obama, Pelosi and Reid are as close to having achieved absolute power as has been reached in modern times. We know what Lord Acton had to say about absolute power.” BACKGROUND: - A discharge petition can take a bill out of committee and place it on the House floor for consideration without leadership cooperation. A discharge petition requires signatures from 218 House members (an absolute majority) to move the bill.
01.12.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement regarding liberal Democrats refusing to allow C-SPAN cameras to broadcast negotiations between the House and Senate on a final version of health care legislation. “Bypassing a conference committee and shutting C-SPAN cameras out of health care negotiations allows the liberal troika of President Obama, Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid to craft their bill out of the public’s eye. When the legislation comes up for a final vote, amendments will not be allowed and limited debate will be held. No previous committee action or amendment votes will apply to this completely new bill. “This is the functional equivalent of Obama, Pelosi and Reid getting together in a phone booth, shutting the doors and crafting a massive health care bill that will affect our entire country. Writing their government-run health care legislation in secret to prevent the participation of the American people and to expedite the bill’s passage is shameful. The only thing that is transparent is this troika’s disdain for transparency.”
01.06.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King made the following statement today in support of C-SPAN’s request to broadcast the negotiations that are currently underway between the House and Senate regarding legislation to change our nation’s health care system: “In January 2008 candidate Obama pledged not to negotiate health care legislation ‘behind closed doors.’ Instead he committed to ‘broadcasting those negotiations on C-SPAN.’ There are serious differences between candidate Obama’s statements in 2008 and President Obama’s actions in 2010. “Today, the healthcare legislation is being negotiated behind closed doors, and C-SPAN’s request to broadcast these negotiations is being rebuffed. Tuesday night President Obama and liberals in Congress decided to bypass conference committee debate to craft government-run health care legislation in secret in an effort to expedite its passage into law. “These closed-door, back room dealings may be the norm in a Chicago-style gangster government, but they are not acceptable in our constitutional republic. Americans have a right to know what is going on so they can make their voices heard. “When asked about President Obama’s pledge to allow C-SPAN access to health care debates, Speaker Pelosi dismissively said ‘there are a number of things he was for on the campaign trail.’ Apparently the Speaker of the House doesn’t mind the idea of the president breaking his promises to the American people. But the American people do mind, and they expect President Obama to follow through on the promise he made to them on the campaign trail.”
12.19.2009	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement on a “compromise” reached by Nebraska Senator Ben Nelson:“The Nelson abortion language in the Reid amendment mandates federal funding for abortion in all health insurance plans (even for men, seniors, and homosexuals) provided an exception of one policy not covering abortion is offered within each state, unless a state passes a law prohibiting coverage of abortion through state health insurance exchanges. States can, by state statute, opt out of abortion coverage. The bill forces all states to offer one policy which does not cover abortion but, absent a state opt out and with a single insurance policy exception, all states are forced into abortion coverage.“If states prohibit abortion coverage by law, the new statute could be reversed by a subsequent legislature, setting up a perpetual battle within the states to, first pass bans on abortion funding, then fight off efforts to repeal or modify the ban. “There are restrictions written into the bill that require the segregation of funds. The Ellsworth language was rejected for similar reasons and so should the Nelson language. Money is fungible.“The result: all American taxpayers will be required to fund abortions through refundable tax credits and subsidies funded out of the federal treasury. No American taxpayer can escape the federal mandate that compels them to send their tax dollars to the U.S. Treasury where they will see their money transferred into accounts that end up in the coffers of Planned Parenthood and other abortion practitioners to be used for abortions.“If states opt out, their citizens, through federal taxes, will still be compelled to pay for abortions in other states, just not in their own states. “Ben Nelson has traded innocent unborn human lives, a fundamental moral principle, for a monetary concession – set aside exclusively for Nebraska.”
12.19.2009	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today released the following statement on a “compromise” reached by Nebraska Senator Ben Nelson:“The Nelson abortion language in the Reid amendment mandates federal funding for abortion in all health insurance plans (even for men, seniors, and homosexuals) provided an exception of one policy not covering abortion is offered within each state, unless a state passes a law prohibiting coverage of abortion through state health insurance exchanges. States can, by state statute, opt out of abortion coverage. The bill forces all states to offer one policy which does not cover abortion but, absent a state opt out and with a single insurance policy exception, all states are forced into abortion coverage.“If states prohibit abortion coverage by law, the new statute could be reversed by a subsequent legislature, setting up a perpetual battle within the states to, first pass bans on abortion funding, then fight off efforts to repeal or modify the ban. “There are restrictions written into the bill that require the segregation of funds. The Ellsworth language was rejected for similar reasons and so should the Nelson language. Money is fungible.“The result: all American taxpayers will be required to fund abortions through refundable tax credits and subsidies funded out of the federal treasury. No American taxpayer can escape the federal mandate that compels them to send their tax dollars to the U.S. Treasury where they will see their money transferred into accounts that end up in the coffers of Planned Parenthood and other abortion practitioners to be used for abortions.“If states opt out, their citizens, through federal taxes, will still be compelled to pay for abortions in other states, just not in their own states. “Ben Nelson has traded innocent unborn human lives, a fundamental moral principle, for a monetary concession – set aside exclusively for Nebraska.”
12.16.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced Class of 2014 nominations from Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District to United States Service Academies.“Attending a service academy is an honor, and each of these candidates deserves strong consideration,” King said. “I congratulate the nominees and wish them the best throughout the selection process.”Applicant's Name Hometown Academy Nominated To Daniel James Allen Granville U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy Daniel Edward Bieber Cherokee U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Alexander Chandler Cleaveland Council Bluffs U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Naval Academy Lauren Elizabeth Eckert Sioux City U.S. Military Academy Edward Louis Ehlert Atlantic U.S. Air Force Academy Tyler Lee Jacobsma Sioux Center U.S. Naval Academy Knute William Klinker Primghar U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Tanner Lee Kollbaum Bronson U.S. Military Academy Matthew James Lord Sioux City U.S. Naval Academy Stephen Anthony Tallon Mondamin U.S. Military Academy **** In addition to the above candidates, Congressman King would like to congratulate Andrew Michael Crumley from Oakland for receiving a Presidential Nomination to the U.S. Military Academy. Andrew’s parents are Mark and Rhonda Crumley.About The Nomination Process To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must meet the eligibility requirements established by law and be nominated from an authorized person including a Member of the United States Senate or House of Representatives. Who Is Eligible? An applicant for a nomination must meet the following eligibility requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to a service academy: He or she must be at least 17 years old, but not have passed the 23rd birthday, must be a United States citizen, and must be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents.Service Academies There are five Service Academies: The United States Air Force (USAFA), Naval (USNA), Military (USMA), Merchant Marine (USMMA), and Coast Guard (USCGA) Academies. Nominations are required for all but the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, to which appointments are made on the basis of an annual nationwide competition.
12.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Steve King will join House Members and former Assistant United States Attorney Andrew McCarthy at a press conference at the Supreme Court tomorrow at 10 a.m. The press conference will focus on the impact of bringing Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other terrorists to American soil and giving these terrorists Constitutional rights and access to our judicial system. Who: Congressman Steve King Congresswoman Michele Bachmann Congressman Pete Hoekstra Congressman Todd Akin Congressman Louie Gohmert Congresswoman Sue Myrick Other House Members Former Assistant United States Attorney Andrew McCarthy Former Deputy Assistant Defense Secretary for Detainee Affairs Charles "Cully" Stimson When: Tomorrow, Thursday, December 10 10 a.m. Where: U.S. Supreme Court Building Sidewalk area below Supreme Court front steps Topic: The impact of bringing Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other terrorists to American soil
12.07.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - In light of President Obama’s plan to send 30,000 additional troops to Afghanistan, Congressman Steve King participated in a four-day fact-finding mission in Afghanistan over the weekend. King returned to Washington, D.C. this morning. Prior to his visiting Afghanistan this weekend, Congressman King made the following public comments about the war in Afghanistan: 1) Obama Violates Osama Oath: http://bit.ly/5UCtNP 2) King Statement on President’s Afghanistan Speech: http://bit.ly/5a3uUz If you are interested in speaking with Congressman King regarding his trip, please respond to this email or call 202-225-4426.
12.03.2009	SIOUX CITY — Congressman Steve King today announced the upcoming retirement of long-time District Director David J. Ehler. Ehler, who has worked for Congressman King since he took office in 2003, will officially retire on January 2, 2010. During his seven years as District Director, Ehler visited all 32 counties and 286 communities in the Fifth District on behalf of Congressman King. Prior to joining Congressman King’s staff, Ehler served in various positions with the City of Holstein, including 25 years as City Administrator. Ehler is a member of the Iowa League of Cities Hall of Fame and has spent years advocating for and working towards a four-lane Highway 20 for western Iowa. “Dave Ehler has been a tremendous asset both to me and to western Iowa,” King said. “His love for western Iowa has been evident every day he served as District Director for the past seven years. Dave is a tireless advocate for the people and communities that make the Fifth District a great place to live. A Navy veteran with a long career in public service, Dave has made immeasurable contributions to our country, state and district. I will miss having Dave on our staff, but I am glad to count him and Judy as friends. I wish them the very best in this new season of life.” Ehler is a United States Navy veteran who served during the Vietnam War in the Gulf of Tonkin off the coast of Vietnam. Ehler and his wife Judy have three children and two grandchildren: their daughter Shawn, her husband Brian and grandson Tanner live in Rome, Georgia; their daughter Sara, her husband Chad and granddaughter BeBe live in Seattle, Washington; and their son Eric is a chef at the Serpentine Restaurant in San Francisco. The Ehlers have also served as foster parents for the past 15 years and have fostered 27 children in their home in Holstein. The Ehlers received the 2007 Angels in Adoption award for the Fifth District. A special appreciation reception for the Ehlers will be held Tuesday, December 22 from 1:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. at the Lohff-Schumann Memorial Community Center in Holstein. The public is invited to drop by and wish the Ehlers the best on their future plans. Please RSVP to This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it "> ' ); document.write( addy75982 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> rachel.simonin@mail.house.gov ' ); //--> This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it ' ); //--> . No gifts please. Ehler can also be reached at This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it "> ' ); document.write( addy61462 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> dave.ehler@mail.house.gov ' ); //--> This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it ' ); //--> for those who would like to send him a note via e-mail.
12.01.2009	Congressman Steve King released the following statement regarding President Obama’s speech tonight outlining the Administration’s strategy for the war in Afghanistan. "Candidate Barack Obama stated, 'I will finally finish the fight against bin Laden and the al-Qaida terrorists who attacked us on 9/11. I will never hesitate to defend this nation.' I do not believe that announcing an exit strategy can contribute to anything except defeat. We must give our American fighting forces the time, resources and support to complete their mission. Tonight we needed the president to stand up and say, 'This is a war that we have to win,' and he needed to be convincing, especially to al-Qaida."
12.01.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King made the following statement in support of statements of disbursements (SOD) for Congressional offices being published online and made available to the public. House of Representatives statements of disbursements for July 1, 2009, through September 30, 2009 were made publicly available online yesterday afternoon and can be accessed at http://disbursements.house.gov/. The SOD has been published quarterly since 1964, but this is the first time the statements have been available online. King’s statement follows: “When the government is spending your money, I believe it should be fiscally disciplined and held accountable. The best way to achieve accountability is transparency. Congress should be as transparent as possible with the American public. “I am glad these statements of disbursements are finally online. It is a significant step towards transparency, but I think they should go a step further. We need full disclosure of Members’ exact asset/liability values on their financial disclosures, instead of vague ranges. We also need all privately-funded Member travel, current House floor debate, and all bills and amendments fully disclosed on the internet in a form that can be easily searched, sorted and downloaded by the public.” Congressman King has previously introduced the Sunlight Act, H.R. 170, to strengthen the financial disclosures of Members of Congress, to require precertification of privately-funded Congressional travel and to make the travel expenses of Members available online.
11.18.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, the Ranking Member of the House Immigration Subcommittee, and Republican Members of the House Judiciary Committee will host a forum November 19 at 1 p.m. regarding the impact of illegal immigration on American jobs. The forum is titled “American Jobs in Peril: The Impact of Uncontrolled Immigration.” Who: Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Member Steve King (R-Iowa) House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-Texas) TBD Other Judiciary Committee Republicans Witnesses: Carol Swain, Vanderbilt University Steve Camarota, Center for Immigration Studies Roy Beck, NumbersUSA Jerry Kammer, Center for Immigration Studies What: Republican Forum on the impact of illegal immigration on American jobs When: November 19 at 1:00 P.M. ET Where: 2237 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515
11.17.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following statement regarding information posted on the website Recovery.gov related to how money allocated in the massive economic “stimulus” spending bill has been spent. Recovery.gov lists information about how money was spent in Iowa at http://www.recovery.gov/Transparency/StateSummaries/Pages/statesummary.aspx?StateCode=IA and http://www.recovery.gov/Pages/TextView.aspx?data=stateSummaryAllCD&statecode=IA. The website states that $135,670,954 in stimulus money spent in Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District has created 157.3 jobs. This amounts to $862,498 per job. Recovery.gov also records stimulus money spent in the nonexistent 7th, 8th, 16th, 17th, 19th, 24th and 31st Iowa Congressional Districts. King’s statement follows:“Perhaps the Obama Administration should award stimulus-funded prize money to any Iowan who can find the 7th, 8th, 16th, 17th, 19th, 24th and 31st Iowa Congressional Districts. “I said it at the time this bill passed, and I will say it again: the Obama Administration’s economic philosophy is straight out of the failed Great Depression-era playbook. Increasing government spending, debt, deficits and taxes as a means to stimulate the economy has always delayed the recovery. “This information confirms that the ‘stimulus’ bill is really a non-stimulating boondoggle of liberal pet projects and wasteful spending. Taxpayers should be outraged at what the President and liberals in this Congress have done with their money.”
11.13.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King made the following statement in response to the Obama Administration naming Bob Bauer as White House Counsel. “Bob Bauer has a public record of defending Barack Obama’s relationship with ACORN. Bauer has acted as the agent between Obama and ACORN, and now he will be perfectly positioned to be tasked with erasing the tracks between Obama and ACORN. Bauer’s hiring appears to be a tactical maneuver to strategically defend the White House exactly one week after Louisiana Attorney General Buddy Caldwell raided ACORN's national headquarters in New Orleans and seized paper records and computer hard drives that may lead to the White House.” Background: - Robert Bauer served as general counsel for Obama for America. In 2008, Bauer sent a letter to then-Attorney General Michael Mukasey arguing that Department of Justice should not investigate election-related fraud allegations against ACORN. The letter is available at http://rawstory.com/images/other/ObamaJusticeletter.pdf. Footnote five of Bauer’s letter complains that “In the last week, several members of Congress who are officially affiliated with the McCain-Palin campaign have written to the Attorney General and U.S. Attorneys pressuring them to investigate ACORN.” The letter also claims that Republican concerns regarding ACORN-related fraud were “manufactured.” Subsequent revelations have validated these Republican concerns and proven the existence of additional fraudulent activities. The clear message of Bauer’s letter was to tell the DOJ to back off from interfering with ACORN’s activities. - ACORN has admitted to over 400,000 fraudulent voter registrations in the 2008 election cycle.
11.13.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King offered the following reaction to Secretary Janet Napolitano’s remarks on immigration policy at Center for American Progress: “Secretary Napolitano’s speech was illogical. She contradicted herself by claiming the downturn in our economy has reduced illegal immigration but then advocated for an amnesty policy that allows millions of illegal aliens to take American jobs. This is exactly the wrong time to be giving a pro-amnesty speech since we just received news that the national unemployment rate hit 10.2 percent. She also praised initiatives like E-Verify and the border fence that she and other open borders advocates have long opposed. I had hoped that we would have a Secretary of Homeland Security who would join with me in defending the rule of law.”
11.10.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King made the following statement and issued this release regarding the resignation of White House communications director Anita Dunn. “Anita Dunn left the White House earlier than expected. Not only has Dunn lavished praises on Chairman Mao and compared him to Mother Teresa, Dunn’s husband has a public record of protecting ACORN and protecting President Obama’s relationship to ACORN.” “ACORN’s national headquarters are now under a full attorney general investigation. Congress and Attorney General Holder need to launch their investigations and a special prosecutor needs to be named – sooner rather than later.” Background: - Four days after Louisiana Attorney General Buddy Caldwell raided ACORN's national office in New Orleans, seizing paper records and computer hard drives, White House communications director Anita Dunn - the wife of a leading ACORN defender - has resigned abruptly from her position. Dunn was the lead critic of Fox News for reporting on the ACORN prostitution scandal, which originally broke on September 10. Dunn subsequently launched a public attack against Fox News on October 11, and she even stated “let's not pretend they're a news network” in reference to Fox. The White House press office, likely under Dunn’s direction, blocked Fox from a press pool event on October 22 that included all other networks in their classification. The White House has since given up on its effort to discredit Fox News - Anita Dunn is married to Robert Bauer, who served as general counsel for Obama for America. In 2008, Bauer sent a letter to then-Attorney General Michael Mukasey arguing that Department of Justice should not investigate election-related fraud allegations against ACORN. The letter is available at http://rawstory.com/images/other/ObamaJusticeletter.pdf. Footnote five of Bauer’s letter complains that “In the last week, several members of Congress who are officially affiliated with the McCain-Palin campaign have written to the Attorney General and U.S. Attorneys pressuring them to investigate ACORN.” The letter also claims that Republican concerns regarding ACORN-related fraud were “manufactured.” Subsequent revelations have validated these Republican concerns and proven the existence of additional fraudulent activities. The clear message of Bauer’s letter was to tell the DOJ to back off from interfering with ACORN’s activities - ACORN has admitted to over 400,000 fraudulent voter registrations in the 2008 election cycle.
11.07.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following statement after liberals in the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3962, the Pelosi health care bill.“The American people reject the Pelosi plan. They do not support putting bureaucrats between patients and doctors, funding illegal aliens, raising taxes on small business owners and making millions of Americans reliant on the government for health services that should be personal and private. The American people must continue to rise up, speak out and kill this bill as it heads to the Senate.”
11.06.2009	“Nancy Pelosi and Washington liberals cannot ignore what transpired yesterday in Washington. Americans from every state stormed Capitol Hill. They took over the Hill. And they loudly chanted ‘Kill this bill!’ “We can kill this bill and stop the government takeover of health care. We need the help of every American willing to stand up for freedom and liberty. I urge all Americans who oppose this bill to come to Washington tomorrow morning and join us to stop this bill.” Tomorrow at one p.m. Congressman King will join his Republican colleagues and Americans from across the nation seeking to have their voices heard in the health care debate for a second House Call press event. Republicans and other participants will deliver a message that the American people reject a government takeover of health care. What: Second Health Care “House Call” on Washington Who: Republican Members of Congress Americans concerned about our health care future Other Guests - TBA When: Saturday, November 7, 2009 at 1:00 p.m. Where: East Egg of U.S. Capitol (see map below)
11.05.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement after thousands of American citizens made a “House Call” on Congress expressing opposition to a government takeover of health care. “In an organic outpouring in support of liberty and freedom, Americans from across the country came to Capitol Hill today and loudly proclaimed ‘Kill this bill!’ Nancy Pelosi and Washington liberals cannot ignore what is transpiring today in Washington. “The American people do not support a bill that puts bureaucrats between patients and doctors, funds abortion with taxpayer dollars, funds illegal aliens, raises taxes on small business owners and makes millions of Americans reliant on the government for health services that should be personal and private. The damage this bill will do is irreversible, and we must do all we can to kill it.”
11.04.2009	This Thursday at noon, Congressman Steve King will join his Republican colleagues, as well as Americans from across the nation who seek to have their voices heard on the health care debate, for a House Call on Washington. Read more below
11.03.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement calling on American citizens to make a “house call” on Congress this week as the House prepares to vote on a government takeover of health care. “For liberals, this legislation is the crown jewel of their socialist agenda,” King said. “It will place bureaucrats between patients and doctors, fund abortion with taxpayer dollars, raise taxes on small business owners and make millions of Americans reliant on the government for health services that should be personal and private. The damage this bill will do is irreversible, and we must do all we can to kill it. We need you to fill the streets in Washington and oppose the Pelosi health care bill.” This Thursday at noon, Congressman King will join his Republican colleagues and Americans from across the nation seeking to have their voices heard in the health care debate for a House Call press event. Republicans and other participants will deliver a message that the American people reject a government takeover of health care. What: Health Care “House Call” on Washington Who: Republican Members of Congress Americans concerned about our health care future Other Guests - TBA When: Thursday, November 5, 2009 from 12:00 – 1:00 Where: East Front Steps of the U.S. Capitol (House side) More information: http://steveking.house.gov/_files/11509HCPublicPressConfFlyer.pdf
10.29.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today responded to the $894 billion health care bill unveiled by Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other liberals. “After weeks of closed door meetings, the Pelosi Democrats have cobbled together a 1,990 page, $894 billion, deficit expanding government takeover of health care. Liberals say the problem with the American health care system is we spend too much money. So their solution is to spend a whole lot more. Democrats have now perfected a form of ‘irrational logic.’ “The Pelosi Democrats are willing to spend nearly a trillion dollars to reduce the percentage of uninsured from less than four percent of Americans without affordable options down to perhaps two percent, and in the process put in place the framework for socialized medicine. This is a bad deal for every American, those present and grandchildren yet to be born. The American people need to rise up, shut down the phone lines in Congress and kill this bill.”
10.21.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King announced that a federal appropriation for the Hungry Canyons Alliance was included in H.R. 2997, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. A final House-Senate Conference Report passed the House and Senate earlier this month. The bill must now be signed into law by the President. King worked with Iowa Senators Chuck Grassley and Tom Harkin to secure $282,000 to continue the Hungry Canyons Alliance’s work to research and implement solutions to the problems associated with stream channel erosion in rural Iowa. Channel erosion has cost Iowa an estimated $1 billion in damage to infrastructure and farmland. “There will be dire consequences for Iowa and the world Iowa feeds if this erosion is not prevented,” said King. “Securing this funding now saves Iowans from expensive and potentially dangerous future problems.” In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional Record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. The original House version of H.R. 2997, that passed the House on July 9, 2009, included $282,000 for this project. The Senate version of this bill contained the same amount of funding for this project, and that amount was maintained when delegates from the House and Senate went to conference to work out a final version of the bill. H.R. 3183 originally passed the House on July 9, and Congressman King opposed the legislation due to its total cost. Without justification, the bill increased funding by 11.9%, despite the $6.1 billion the agencies funded by this bill already received this year through the stimulus bill.
10.21.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King announced that a federal appropriation for the Little Sioux Watershed Project was included in H.R. 2997, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. A final House-Senate Conference Report passed the House and Senate earlier this month. The bill must now be signed into law by the President. King worked with Iowa Senators Chuck Grassley and Tom Harkin to secure $1.146 million to continue the implementation of the Little Sioux Flood Prevention Project. The Little Sioux Project was authorized in 1936. Federal funds have been made available to the Department of Agriculture since late 1945 to assist farmers and other interested parties in planning and applying watershed measures to minimize flood damage. “This project reduces flood damage, gully erosion damage and stream channel degradation and improves water quality in western Iowa,” said King. “Iowa farmers and communities can count on the continued productivity of our soil and the safety of our water because of projects like the Little Sioux Watershed Project.” In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional Record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. The original House version of H.R. 2997, that passed the House on July 9, 2009, included $1.146 million for this project. While funding for this project was not included in the Senate version of this bill, the $1.146 million included in the House version was maintained when delegates from the House and Senate went to conference to work out a final version of the bill. H.R. 3183 originally passed the House on July 9, and Congressman King opposed the legislation due to its total cost. Without justification, the bill increased funding by 11.9%, despite the $6.1 billion the agencies funded by this bill already received this year through the stimulus bill.
10.20.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA), a member of the House Judiciary Committee, today responded to a recent Department of Justice decision overruling a 2008 ballot initiative in Kinston, NC that eliminated party affiliation of candidates in local elections and was supported overwhelmingly by local voters. According to the Washington Times, “The Justice Department's ruling, which affects races for City Council and mayor, went so far as to say partisan elections are needed so that black voters can elect their ‘candidates of choice’ - identified by the department as those who are Democrats and almost exclusively black.” King’s statement follows: “Martin Luther King Jr. longed for a day ‘when people will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character.’ King and centuries of abolitionists dreamed of a time when men and women of all races could vote and equally participate in society irrespective of skin color or ethnicity. This DOJ decision sets in reverse everything these heroes worked for. “The DOJ has no business overruling a local election and should not be putting an emphasis on race. The DOJ is essentially insulting African-American voters by saying that they are not smart enough to vote for candidates that do not have a D by their names. Attorney General Holder has again politicized the Department of Justice by prohibiting Kinston, NC from holding nonpartisan elections. We saw the same racial bias in the dismissal of the New Black Panther case of voter intimidation. “Elections in the United States should be about policy and ideas, not about the race of the candidates or voters.”
10.15.2009	"Support is growing in Congress and across America for President Obama to fire Kevin Jennings and replace him with someone possessing the appropriate qualifications and ethical standards to serve in a presidential administration," King said. "Despite serving as the ‘safe schools' czar, Jennings has no experience keeping students safe or keeping our schools drug free. Jennings is committed to the ‘safety' of only a narrow portion of American students, while expressing disdain for religion and traditional values. President Obama should fire Kevin Jennings immediately." Text of the letter follows: October 15, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, We respectfully request that you remove Kevin Jennings, the Assistant Deputy Secretary for the Office of Safe and Drug Free Schools, from your Administration. It is clear that Mr. Jennings lacks the appropriate qualifications and ethical standards to serve in this capacity. As the founder of the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network (GLSEN), Mr. Jennings has played an integral role in promoting homosexuality and pushing a pro-homosexual agenda in America's schools-an agenda that runs counter to the values that many parents desire to instill in their children. As evidence of this, Mr. Jennings wrote the foreword for a book titled Queering Elementary Education: Advancing the Dialogue About Sexualities and Schooling. Throughout his career, Mr. Jennings has made it his mission to establish special protections for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered students to the exclusion of all other students. The totality of Mr. Jennings' career has been to advocate for public affirmation of homosexuality. There is more to safe and drug free schools than can be accomplished from the narrow view of Mr. Jennings who has, for more than 20 years, almost exclusively focused on promoting the homosexual agenda. Equally troubling is Mr. Jennings' self-described history of ignoring the sexual abuse of a child. In his book, One Teacher in Ten, Mr. Jennings recounts a 15-year old student confiding in him that he had a sexual relationship with a much older man. Mr. Jennings' only response was to ask if the underage boy used a condom. As a mandatory reporter, Mr. Jennings was required by law to report child abuse, including sex crimes. Mr. Jennings cannot serve as the "safe schools" czar when his record demonstrates a willingness to overlook the sexual abuse of a child. As the "safe schools" czar, Mr. Jennings is also charged with ensuring our schools and students are drug free. It is clear that Mr. Jennings is unfit to serve in this capacity, as well. His own history of unrepentant drug and alcohol abuse indicates that he is of the opinion that getting drunk and high as a young person is acceptable. In his memoir, Mama's Boy, Preacher's Son, Mr. Jennings describes his use of illegal drugs, without expressing regret or acknowledging the devastating effects illegal drug use can have on a person's life. Everyone that deals with the education of the most vulnerable must be a positive role model. Our children are not blessed with the wisdom to discern and reject. Children presume the adults who educate them are approved by the larger society and their parents. Kevin Jennings cannot gain the approval of parents who want their children safe and their schools drug free. You should replace him with someone who has a record of educating children in a safe and moral environment. Given these very serious issues with Mr. Jennings' record, we urge you to remove him immediately. Sincerely,
10.15.2009	WASHINGTON DC – Members of the Iowa Delegation urge disaster relief reform in a joint letter to Chairman John Olver of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD). The letter supports an amendment that will allow disaster stricken communities greater access and use of Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) disaster relief funds. The amendment, introduced by Senator Landrieu (D-LA) and co-sponsored by Senator Grassley and Senator Harkin, was added to the THUD Appropriations bill in the Senate, and would allow states and communities that received CDBG disaster funding to use that funding as a local match, share, or contribution toward federal projects. “The ailing economy coupled with the floods of last summer have left many Iowans overwhelmed at the loss of so many basics within their communities,” said Congressman Loebsack. “From homes to schools to libraries to sewage facilities and public buildings, Iowans have many projects to tackle on the road to recovery. Allowing CDBG disaster relief funds to be used as the local cost share would lift an incredible burden off the shoulders of many communities in Iowa that are struggling to take care of their community members with too few funds and too many projects.” “This action would allow communities that are affected by disasters to more quickly begin to rebuild and remove some of the immediate financial burdens on local governments. This change would directly impact the Iowa communities that are still recovering from the extensive flooding of 2008 and implementing flood prevention measures, including Des Moines and many other towns in the 3rd District,” said Congressman Boswell. “I commend Congressman Loebsack for his leadership on this issue and his hard work to rebuild Cedar Rapids and the rest of the 2nd District, which was hit especially hard by the flood.” “We have not forgotten the families, businesses, towns and cities that are still recovering from the historic floods of 2008,” said Congressman King. “This is a common-sense request that will go a long way towards ensuring money provided to Iowa for flood relief is put to the best use possible.” “The floods of 2008 had a devastating effect across eastern Iowa,” Congressman Braley said. “Access to CDBG funds is crucial for progress on the road to recovery. It’s important that we work together to help victims continue to rebuild their homes and communities.” “Given the recent estimates for the 2010 State of Iowa revenues, the use of CDBG funds for matching purposes would provide a significant boost to efforts to help Iowa recover from the devastating floods of 2008,” noted Congressman Tom Latham, the ranking Republican on the THUD Subcommittee. To date, Iowa has received nearly $800 million in CDBG disaster relief funds, which Iowa’s Congressional Delegation originally secured. This amendment will specifically alter the allowable use of funds acquired from the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act of 2009, which prohibits the use of the CDBG disaster relief funds for a local match or cost share. Iowa has received nearly $642 million in CDBG funds from the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act of 2009. The Landrieu amendment would remove the local match restriction, and allow these funds to be used by the state, or any cities and towns recovering from disasters, as a local match or contribution toward other federal projects. The letter was written by Congressman Dave Loebsack, Congressman Leonard Boswell, Congressman Steve King, and Congressman Bruce Braley.
10.14.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King announced that a federal appropriation for Western Iowa Tech Community College (WITCC) was included in H.R. 3183, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. A final House-Senate Conference Report passed the House earlier this month and passed the Senate today. King secured $500,000 to develop the wind energy program at WITCC, including the acquisition of equipment and technology for WITCC’s engineering curriculum. This curriculum includes training in the design of a wind farm and an electricity power grid, the erection of wind turbines, the wiring of turbines to an electric power grid and the scheduling and performance of routine maintenance on turbines. “Wind farms in rural areas, like western Iowa, generate energy that can be transmitted to load centers in urban areas via a regional utility grid. All of America’s communities benefit from wind energy,” said King. “This funding will allow western Iowans to obtain the education and training needed to succeed in this growing industry.” In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. Congressman King opposed the legislation due to its total cost. Without justification, the bill nearly tripled funding levels for various government agencies funded in the bill. The original House version of H.R. 3183 that passed the House on July 17, 2009 included $500,000 for this project. That amount was maintained when delegates from the House and Senate went to conference to work out a final version of the bill which, after passing the House and Senate, must now be signed into law by the President.
10.14.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King announced that a federal appropriation for the Lewis and Clark Water System was included in H.R. 3183, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. A final House-Senate Conference Report passed the House earlier this month and passed the Senate today. King worked with Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN), Rep. Stephanie Herseth-Sandlin (D-SD), Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA), Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Senator John Thune (R-SD) to secure $10,000,000 for continued construction of the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System. This funding is in addition to $56,000,000 in funding the project received earlier this year. Regional water problems include shallow wells, aquifers prone to contamination and drought, compliance with new federal drinking water standards and increasing water demand due to population growth and economic expansion. When completed, this facility will provide water to 20 cities and rural water systems in northwest Iowa, southeast South Dakota and southwest Minnesota. “Construction of the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System has created almost 700 jobs in western Iowa,” said King. “Once completed, this system will bring about regional health benefits, increased swine and dairy yields, higher water quality and many other positive benefits for the tri-state area.” In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. Congressman King opposed the legislation due to its total cost. Without justification, the bill nearly tripled funding levels for various government agencies funded in the bill. The original House version of H.R. 3183 that passed the House on July 17, 2009 included $6,000,000 for this project. That amount was increased to $10,000,000 when delegates from the House and Senate went to conference to work out a final version of the bill which, after passing the House and the Senate, must now be signed into law by the President.
10.13.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today responded to a proposal put forth by Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) that would give amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants. “We currently have our highest national unemployment rate in 30 years and millions of Americans are out of work or worried about losing their jobs. In our current economic crisis, Americans cannot afford to lose more jobs to illegal workers. “This is the time for the Obama administration to accelerate enforcement of immigration laws to make room for unemployed Americans, not grant amnesty to millions of lawbreakers. If President Obama is serious about helping displaced workers find jobs, he will enforce our immigration laws, stop the hiring of illegal workers and allow the 21 million out of work Americans to get back to work. We must not reward lawbreakers at the expense of hard-working and smart-working Americans.”
10.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement congratulating West Lyon High School of Inwood for receiving a 2009 Blue Ribbon School award. “The Blue Ribbon School award is a significant recognition,” said King. “This award indicates that West Lyon High School students and staff are among America’s best and brightest. On behalf of western Iowa, I would like to congratulate West Lyon High School for receiving this distinguished honor and for being an example to schools across America.” The Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors academically superior public and private schools, as well as schools that have shown dramatic improvement in student achievement. These schools serve as models for other schools throughout the nation. The list of all 2009 Blue Ribbon Schools is available on the U. S. Department of Education’s website at: http://www.ed.gov/programs/nclbbrs/awards.html.
10.08.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement in opposition to hate crimes provisions that were inserted into the Conference Report for H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. “Today in the House we witnessed partisan politics at its worst. Liberals used a bill to fund our troops as a vehicle to pass new laws to protect classes of people that have never been defined or identified as a class before. This unconstitutional bill aims to protect new classes of people based on ‘gender identity’ and ‘sexual orientation.’ “These are classifications of people that are based on their inner feelings – their thoughts. Punishing ‘thought crimes’ will infringe on freedom of speech and religious expression, rights endowed to all Americans in the Constitution. Under this legislation, justice will no longer be equal. Instead, justice will depend on the race, gender, sexual orientation or protected status of the victim, setting up different penalties for the same crime. “This ‘thought crimes’ bill shatters the American tradition of equal justice under the law.”
10.07.2009	Congressman Steve King today responded to news that the Department of Homeland Security has stripped Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio of the authority to patrol for illegal immigrants.“The Department of Homeland Security is now telling law enforcement officials to ignore our laws so this Administration’s political agenda can be achieved. Disregarding immigration law enforcement will result in more drunk drivers, more murders and move violent crimes. The Department of Homeland Security and the Administration will be directly responsible for this increase in criminal activity. “ACORN, the ACLU and La Raza have protested Sheriff Joe Arpaio and have attempted to keep him from doing his job. This decision shows that this Administration is willing to prevent a sheriff from enforcing the law in order to capitulate to these radical special interest groups. The ‘open borders’ Obama Administration continues to posture itself in favor of amnesty over the Rule of Law. President Obama should overturn this decision and allow Sheriff Joe to continue to do his job.”
10.07.2009	Dear Ms. Claypool, Thank you for your letter to Rep. King dated October 1, 2009. While we appreciate your efforts in preparing a response, we are surprised that you did not use the opportunity to provide proof of your original assertion, as made in your September 9, 2009, letter to the editor in the Des Moines Register, that statements Rep. King made in his August 26th Register OpEd regarding potential coverage of immigrants in current healthcare proposals were “incorrect.” In all five pages of your letter to Rep. King, the only backing for your assertion that his statements of August 26th were “incorrect” is found on page 4 in the claim that “our research indicates that unauthorized immigrants are unlikely to substantially benefit from the proposed health care insurance reforms under H.R. 3200.” Unfortunately, you did not provide any such research. There was no evidence offered to support this claim. It was inserted, near the very end of your lengthy letter, as a statement of fact, yet no facts were offered to substantiate it. To inform your research into this matter, we provided you with factual evidence from both the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office and the non-partisan Congressional Research Service to support the claims Rep. King made in his August 26th OpEd – namely that up to 5.6 million illegal immigrants would be insured as a result of the passage of H.R. 3200 and that there is no mechanism in place under H.R. 3200 to ensure that illegal immigrants will not benefit from the new health benefits created by the bill. Your letter ignored these facts. Your letter also ignored the concern Rep. King raised on August 26th regarding the bill’s suggestion that if one member of a household is eligible for benefits, everyone in that household will be considered eligible. We are disappointed that you did not take advantage of your October 10th response to explain your rationale for the claim that Rep. King was ‘incorrect’ in stating these findings as fact. Interestingly, though your letter seems to have purposefully avoided a discussion of the loopholes contained in H.R. 3200 that Rep. King highlighted in his August 26th OpEd, it went to great lengths to defend the effort to water down Medicaid’s formerly strict citizenship verification requirements. You began by pointing out that H.R. 3200 includes language stating that “Nothing in this title shall change current prohibitions against Federal Medicaid and CHIP payments under titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act on behalf of individuals who are not lawfully present in the United States.” While this is a true statement, it highlights a significant issue, given that current law allows individuals to receive taxpayer funded health care under Medicaid by simply providing a working social security number – which the Social Security Commissioner has stated cannot verify Medicaid applicants’ citizenship status. Thus, allowing applicants to provide a Social Security number rather than verifiable documentation of their citizenship (as had been required prior to the change in law in February) will make it easier for illegal aliens to receive taxpayer funded health benefits through Medicaid. This was the basis for Rep. King’s August 26th statement that this recent change in law would “create an open door to Medicaid fraud and abuse by illegals.” We find no facts in your letter to invalidate this statement, and we are therefore puzzled as to how you have concluded that Rep. King was ‘incorrect’ in making such a statement. In your letter, you go on to argue that, under the previous documentation requirements, citizens who could not produce sufficient documentation to verify their citizenship were denied benefits. Though this may have been the case, anyone seeking benefits paid for by the taxpayer should be expected to prove that they are who they say they are and that they are legally entitled to benefits as a citizen of the United States. The congressman believes this is a reasonable expectation that most Americans support. You further argue that, based upon the assumptions of Iowa’s Medicaid Program Director, none of the 21,329 individuals in Iowa who did not gain/regain Medicaid eligibility because of a failure to verify citizenship/identity are illegal immigrants. Absent any facts to substantiate this claim, it seems foolish to suggest that none of the 21,329 are, in fact, illegal aliens. However, even if it could be factually proven that none are present in the U.S. illegally, none should receive any taxpayer funded benefit if they are unwilling, at a very minimum, to provide proof that they are entitled to the benefits as a citizen. Finally, you argue that citizenship documentation requirements within Medicaid were a costly burden to states. While there is no doubt that citizenship verification comes with some cost, given that citizenship status can only be determined through a review of verifiable documentation, there is no alternative that is equally effective and yet more cost efficient. As stated above, efforts to put such a system in place have left us with a Social Security number-based system that the Social Security Commissioner himself has stated is unable to determine citizenship status. In closing, we once again ask that you provide the facts upon which you based your allegation that Rep. King’s “statements of [August 26th] regarding potential coverage of immigrants in current healthcare proposals [were] incorrect.” Sincerely, Casaday Nguyen Legislative Assistant Congressman Steve King (IA-05)
10.05.2009	Congressman Steve King today called for President Barack Obama to fire “safe schools” czar Kevin Jennings. King’s statement follows. “Kevin Jennings lacks the appropriate qualifications and ethical standards to serve in a presidential administration. Despite serving as the ‘safe schools’ czar, Jennings has demonstrated a willingness to look the other way on sexual abuse. His life’s work has been the promotion of homosexuality, even in elementary schools, and he has demonstrated no qualifications to make students safer in our schools. Jennings is committed to the ‘safety’ of only a narrow portion of American students, while expressing disdain for religion and traditional values. President Obama should fire Kevin Jennings immediately.” Read more: http://bit.ly/PieKj
09.30.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, after meeting yesterday with House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, today sent Chairman Conyers the following letter. King met privately with Conyers on September 22 and 29 to discuss the possibility of a Congressional investigation of ACORN. King’s letter follows: September 30, 2009 The Honorable John Conyers Committee on the Judiciary 2138 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Conyers, Pursuant to our public and private discourse, I submit to you my second formal request for full Judiciary Committee hearings and a complete and comprehensive investigation into the Association of Community Organization for Reform Now (ACORN) and its affiliates. As Members of Congress and representatives of the American people, we have a constitutional, moral, and ethical duty to investigate ACORN and its affiliates for alleged wrongdoing and criminal activity. The Judiciary Committee’s familiarity with ACORN’s criminal activity dates back to at least July 24, 2008, when Cleta Mitchell testified that “ACORN was vandalizing our electoral integrity” before Chairman Jerrold Nadler and the Subcommittee on the Constitution. On March 19, 2009, the Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Civil Liberties held a hearing on “Lessons Learned from the 2008 Election.” During this Subcommittee hearing, you asked Chairman Nadler to consider holding a hearing on ACORN, calling these fraudulent voter registrations “a pretty serious matter…something that would be worth our time.” On May 4, 2009, CNN’s Lou Dobbs reported that you reversed your position on investigating ACORN and quoted you as saying, “Based on my review of the information regarding the complaints against ACORN, I have concluded that a hearing on this matter appears unwarranted at this time.” When the Washington Times asked you about a Judiciary Committee investigation into ACORN on June 25 2009, you said, “The powers that be decided against it.” While I understand that your relationship and ties to ACORN may be extensive, as Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, you have a duty to uphold justice and a duty to hold full Judiciary Committee hearings on ACORN and its affiliates immediately. Your unwillingness to do so is unacceptable to the American people. In my first letter, sent September 23, 2009, I provided you with a laundry list of criminal activities committed by ACORN and its affiliates. It is clear that ACORN and its affiliates are operating as a criminal enterprise and are involved in illegal and fraudulent activity. On July 23, 2009, Congressman Darrell Issa and the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform released a detailed report on this criminal enterprise and its illegal activities. That same day, July 23, 2009, we discussed the Issa report on the House floor. It was during this discussion that you agreed to review the report, so that we could discuss it in detail the following week. Based on our private discussions, you have not acknowledged Mr. Issa’s report on ACORN nor have you acknowledged reading through it—even though I provided you with a copy of the report on Friday, July 24, 2009. Included in the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform report is evidence that ACORN, and its spider web of affiliates, is involved with deliberate and systemic fraud. This report made five solid conclusions: ACORN has evaded taxes, obstructed justice, engaged in self dealing, and aided and abetted a cover-up of embezzlement by Dale Rathke, the brother of ACORN founder Wade Rathke. ACORN has committed investment fraud, deprived the public of its right to honest services, and engaged in racketeering enterprise affecting interstate commerce. ACORN has committed a conspiracy to defraud the United States by using taxpayer funds for partisan political activities ACORN has submitted false filings to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Department of Labor, in addition to violating the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). ACORN falsified and concealed facts concerning illegal transactions between related parties in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). As we discussed in our meeting on September 22, 2009, and again on September 29, 2009, we have a duty to protect our constitutional republic from corrupt and criminal organizations like ACORN. As I mentioned, ACORN and its affiliates have admitted to filing over 400,000 false or fraudulent voter registrations in the 2008 election cycle alone. This is a direct threat to the integrity of our election process. Congressional hearings and a complete investigation into ACORN and its affiliates may reveal that fraudulent voter registrations have led to fraudulent votes being cast. For example, we cannot ignore recent reports from Troy, New York that link dozens of forged and fraudulent absentee ballots to the Working Families Party in New York. The Working Families Party has close connections with ACORN’s chief organizer, Bertha Lewis. Because of its rampant voter registration fraud, over the past five years, ACORN has been investigated in at least 19 states. These states include Washington, California, Colorado, New Mexico, Texas, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Missouri, Louisiana, Michigan, Indiana, Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Virginia, North Carolina, Florida, and Nevada. ACORN, as an entity, is currently on trial for widespread criminal activity including corruption and voter registration fraud in Nevada. As I mentioned in our meeting, we must start congressional hearings at the full committee level. ACORN’s criminal activity is not limited to one Subcommittee, but several. The Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Civil Liberties has jurisdiction over the fraudulent voter registrations and potential voter fraud. The Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law has jurisdiction over ACORN’s human trafficking, illegal immigration, and potential voter fraud relating to illegal aliens. The Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law has jurisdiction over potential bankruptcy fraud resulting from ACORN’s involvement in the shakedown of lenders and advocacy of banks giving bad loans to low-income individuals. The Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security has jurisdiction over ACORN’s RICO offenses arising from evidence that ACORN has been involved with fraud, bribery, embezzlement, bankruptcy, and human trafficking. An overwhelming majority in the House and in the Senate have voted to defund ACORN. The American people want a complete and comprehensive investigation into this criminal enterprise. We cannot ignore ACORN’s criminal activity. Time is of the essence—the Judiciary Committee must investigate ACORN and hold congressional hearings immediately. You cannot ignore the corruption that surrounds ACORN, and you cannot deny that congressional hearings and an investigation are warranted at this time. To date, no case has been made by you or your committee members against the compelling obligation for immediate hearings and a comprehensive investigation—to delay is to deny, which is completely objectionable to the American people. Sincerely, Steve King Member of Congress
09.25.2009	Congressman Steve King today responded to news reports that American border officials are allowing illegal immigrants to enter the United States in exchange for bribes. "The Border Patrol is a vital component of our national security apparatus, and corrupt border officials are a threat to America’s safety and security. We must immediately crackdown on these law-breaking officials and eliminate any corruption within the Border Patrol, especially in light of recent terrorist plots across the country. The corrupt practice of extracting bribes has flowed over from Mexico and has got to stop. We need to bring corrupt officials to justice to ensure a culture of integrity in our law enforcement officials. America needs secure borders and enforcement of our immigration laws.”
09.24.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King sent the following letter to House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers calling for the Judiciary Committee to hold congressional hearings and conduct a complete and comprehensive full committee investigation into ACORN and its affiliates. King met privately with Conyers on Tuesday, and the two made plans to meet again Friday. The Honorable John Conyers Committee on the Judiciary 2138 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Conyers, As you know, I am concerned about facts related to the Association of Community Organization for Reform Now (ACORN). I request that the Judiciary Committee hold congressional hearings and conduct a complete and comprehensive full committee investigation into ACORN and its affiliates. ACORN is operating as a criminal enterprise and committing illegal and fraudulent activity. I have repeatedly called for a congressional investigation into ACORN, but publicly available information about ACORN’s criminal acts has been ignored by liberals in Congress and the mainstream media. On July 23, 2009, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform released a detailed report on this criminal enterprise and its illegal activities. That same day, you agreed to read the report during our colloquy on the House floor. As I’m sure you are aware, the Committee concluded that ACORN and its spider web of affiliates is involved with deliberate and systemic fraud—including tax evasion, obstruction of justice and aiding and abetting the cover-up of embezzlement. The report also details ACORN’s conspiracy to defraud the United States government by illegally using taxpayer funds. As we discussed in our meeting on Tuesday, we have a duty to protect the integrity of our election process. ACORN has threatened that integrity by committing voter registration fraud. ACORN is currently under investigation in at least 14 states. It has admitted to filing over 400,000 false or fraudulent voter registrations in the 2008 election cycle alone. Because of this, ACORN, as an entity, has been indicted on voter fraud charges in Nevada. Its involvement in questionable lending practices and in the shakedown of lenders also demonstrates that ACORN is rife with fraud. As if these offenses were not enough to warrant a congressional inquiry, recent videos released on Fox News of ACORN employees facilitating fraud, human trafficking, prostitution and tax evasion have added new, even more troubling transgressions to ACORN’s rap sheet. These acts cannot be ignored. The time to investigate ACORN is now. As a recipient of at least $53 million in taxpayer dollars since 1994, ACORN must be held accountable. Despite a laundry list of criminal activity, ACORN is still eligible to receive $8.5 billion more in federal tax dollars. We have a duty to protect the Rule of Law and the interests of the taxpayer. To fulfill this duty with regard to ACORN, we must start holding congressional hearings and order a complete investigation into ACORN. I look forward to meeting with you again on Friday, September 25, to determine how the full Judiciary Committee will proceed with an investigation of ACORN and its affiliates. Sincerely, Steve King Member of Congress
09.23.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement after Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid rejected GOP calls for an investigation into ACORN. “The interlocking financial connections between ACORN and its affiliate organizations are rife with waste, fraud and abuse, yet ACORN has never been investigated by Congress because of ACORN cronies like Harry Reid. How much more evidence does Harry Reid need to initiate investigations into this partisan criminal enterprise? “An all-out, full court press federal investigation is the only way to bring ACORN to heel. The Department of Justice and the Internal Revenue Service need to jointly investigate ACORN and perform a complete forensic analysis of the activities and finances of ACORN and its affiliates. We also need multiple Congressional committee investigations to ensure ACORN will not continue its shady practices, especially while collecting taxpayer funds. People need to go to jail for criminal activities.” About ACORN: - In June, the Washington Times reported that House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers “backed off his plan to investigate wrongdoing by the liberal activist group ACORN, saying ‘powers that be’ put the kibosh on the idea.” - ACORN is under investigation in at least 14 states. - ACORN as an entity was charged with voter fraud in Nevada. - ACORN has admitted to over 400,000 fraudulent voter registrations in the 2008 election cycle. - ACORN has received a minimum $53 million in taxpayer dollars since 1994. - ACORN covered up Dale Rathke’s embezzlement of $948,607.50 for eight years. - ACORN is eligible to receive as much as $8.5 billion more in federal tax dollars. - ACORN played a role in the mortgage meltdown by pressuring banks to make bad loans and by brokering them. - ACORN and its approximately 300 affiliates use the same accounting firm and same mailing address in New Orleans, Louisiana.
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement regarding news that ACORN has launched an internal investigation into the “systems and processes” called into question by recent videos filmed at ACORN offices around the country. “We have now seen multiple examples of an organization that, in addition to facing charges of voter fraud and tax violations, is willing to facilitate child prostitution and human trafficking. These videos have confirmed that ACORN continues to operate as a criminal enterprise. “An all-out, full court press federal investigation is the only way to bring ACORN to heel. The Department of Justice and the Internal Revenue Service need to jointly investigate ACORN and perform a complete forensic analysis of the activities and finances of ACORN and its affiliates. We also need multiple Congressional committee investigations to ensure this partisan criminal enterprise will not continue its shady practices while collecting taxpayer funds. People need to go to jail for their criminal activities.” About ACORN: - In June, the Washington Times reported that House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers “backed off his plan to investigate wrongdoing by the liberal activist group ACORN, saying ‘powers that be’ put the kibosh on the idea.” - ACORN is under investigation in at least 14 states. - ACORN as an entity was charged with voter fraud in Nevada. - ACORN has admitted to over 400,000 fraudulent voter registrations in the 2008 election cycle. - ACORN has received a minimum $53 million in taxpayer dollars since 1994. - ACORN is eligible to receive as much as $8.5 billion more in federal tax dollars. - ACORN played a role in the mortgage meltdown by pressuring banks to make bad loans and by brokering them. - ACORN and its approximately 300 affiliates use the same accounting firm and same mailing address in New Orleans, Louisiana.
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement regarding the announcement that the Obama administration will abandon plans to place a missile defense system in the Czech Republic and Poland. “This announcement by the Obama Administration is another move straight out of the Neville Chamberlain foreign policy playbook. The Obama Administration appears intent on appeasing rogue dictators and threatening regimes, even at the expense of our allies. This move, combined with cuts to our missile defense budget, indicates the Obama Administration’s strategy is to appease Iran and Russia rather than stand up to tyranny and totalitarianism.”
09.15.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following statement regarding a vote last night in the Senate that denied ACORN from qualifying for federal grant money in the Housing and Urban Development and Transportation appropriations bill. The amendment was introduced by Senator Mike Johanns of Nebraska. King’s statement follows: “Over the past week, we have seen multiple examples of an organization that, in addition to facing charges of voter fraud and tax violations, is willing to facilitate prostitution. These videos have confirmed that ACORN continues to operate as a criminal enterprise. “Nancy Pelosi, John Conyers, Barney Frank and other liberals on Capitol Hill have protected and funded ACORN while blocking Congressional hearings on ACORN’s operations and finances. The Attorney General of the United States needs to investigate with the IRS and perform a complete forensic analysis of the activities and finances of ACORN and its affiliates. “This Senate vote indicates the tide may be turning. Taxpayers are refusing to allow this partisan criminal enterprise to continue its shady practices while collecting taxpayer funds. I commend Senator Johanns for his leadership on this issue, and remain committed to ensuring no more taxpayer dollars are placed in ACORN’s coffers.”
09.10.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — In response to President Obama’s health care address, Congressman Steve King and Republican members of the House Judiciary Committee today called on Chairman John Conyers to schedule a hearing and markup of a proposal to enact law abuse reform and reduce health care costs nationwide. The Help Efficient, Accessible, Low-cost, Timely Healthcare (HEALTH) Act of 2009 (H.R. 1086) includes the same types of medical lawsuit reforms that several states have enacted to reduce costs and enhance care. Republican members asked Chairman Conyers to respond with a date for a hearing by September 17. “Last night, President Obama continued to advocate for the same policies a majority of Americans reject,” King said. “We do not need mandates, triggers or cuts to the benefits received by seniors. We need real solutions like lawsuit abuse reform that will immediately lower health care costs. This is a real, bi-partisan solution and it is time for Congress to make it happen.” A copy of the letter to Chairman Conyers is attached.
09.10.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today reacted to a tape released by an independent filmmaker showing Baltimore-based ACORN workers assisting a man and a woman claiming to be involved in a prostitution ring. According to FOXNEWS, “Officials with the controversial community organizing group ACORN were secretly videotaped offering to assist two individuals posing as a pimp and a prostitute, encouraging them to lie to the Internal Revenue Service and providing guidance on how to claim underage girls from South America as dependents.” “Taxpayers should be outraged that their money has gone to an organization that, in addition to facing charges of voter fraud and tax violations, is willing to facilitate prostitution,” King said. “As this video confirms, ACORN continues to operate as a criminal enterprise. Nancy Pelosi, John Conyers, Barney Frank and other Democrats on Capitol Hill continue to protect and fund ACORN while blocking Congressional hearings on ACORN’s operations and finances. Shielding ACORN from oversight ensures that this partisan criminal enterprise will continue its shady practices while collecting taxpayer funds.” About ACORN: - In June, the Washington Times reported that House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers “backed off his plan to investigate wrongdoing by the liberal activist group ACORN, saying ‘powers that be’ put the kibosh on the idea.” - ACORN is under investigation in at least 14 states. - ACORN as an entity was charged with voter fraud in Nevada. - ACORN has admitted to over 400,000 fraudulent voter registrations in the 2008 election cycle. - ACORN has received a minimum $53 million in taxpayer dollars since 1994. - ACORN is eligible to receive as much as $8.5 billion more in federal tax dollars. - ACORN played a role in the mortgage meltdown by pressuring banks to make bad loans and by brokering them. - ACORN and its approximately 300 affiliates use the same accounting firm and same mailing address in New Orleans, Louisiana.
09.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King has been recognized as a “True Blue” Member of Congress by Family Research Council Action for unwavering commitment and consistent support in defense of the family. The award honors Members of Congress who have exhibited extraordinary leadership and commitment to the defense of family, faith, and freedom, according to FRC Action’s scorecard covering the votes of the 110th Congress. Recipients of the “True Blue” Award voted consistently for pro-life and pro-family issues. These votes included: - Prohibition on Funding Human Cloning - Federal Hate Crimes Act - Maintain Mexico City Policy on International Abortion Funding - Employment Non-Discrimination Act - Restrict Funding to Planned Parenthood - Prevent DC Same-sex “Marriage” - Prohibit Funding for Washington DC Needle Exchange Program “Members of the 110th Congress who receive this award have shown themselves to be consistent defenders of faith, family and freedom,” FRC Action President Tony Perkins said. “I applaud Congressman King for upholding the institutions of marriage and family even in the face of hostile opposition from liberal leadership in the House.” “While family law issues are historically, and rightfully, left to the states, Congress is obligated to act as it sees fit to defend the Constitution, liberty, property and life itself,” Congressman King said. “Human life is the most precious gift we are given, and the family is the backbone of our society. I will always strive to defend our culture of life and to protect the sacred institution of marriage.”
09.09.2009	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) tonight made the following statement in response to President Obama’s health care address before a joint session of Congress. "President Obama gave a well-delivered speech that will likely give the American public some hope that the White House is operating in a reasonable, bipartisan manner in this debate. A closer examination of the language of his speech reveals a number of ambiguities and essentially the same policies a majority of Americans reject. We do not need mandates, triggers or cuts to the benefits received by seniors. We need real solutions like lawsuit abuse reform, the ability to purchase health insurance across state lines and full deductibility that provide consumers with lower costs and more choices."
09.08.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today responded to a statement made by President Barack Obama accusing critics of a proposed government take over of the health care system of lying. In a speech yesterday at an AFL-CIO picnic, President Obama stated: "I've got a question for all these folks who say, you know, we're going to pull the plug on Grandma and this is all about illegal immigrants -- you've heard all the lies. I've got a question for all those folks: What are you going to do? What's your answer? What's your solution? And you know what? They don't have one." King’s response follows: “With the political winds blowing against him, President Obama is now resorting to calling those who oppose his health care plan liars. This rhetorical device cannot hide the simple fact that more and more Americans are opposing Obamacare each day. “Republicans have put forward many solutions for health care reform. These ideas have included full deductibility of medical expenses for all Americans, medical lawsuit abuse reform, an increase in Health Savings Account contribution amounts, giving consumers the ability to purchase health insurance across state lines and allowing small businesses to band together to negotiate lower costs for themselves and their employees through Association Health Plans. These are real solutions, not lies, that will protect the relationship between patients and doctors and improve the quality of health care in America without massive spending or tax hikes. “It is unseemly for a President of the United States to declare that truth-tellers are liars, especially when he relentlessly repeats the colossal untruth that everyone in America who likes their health insurance policy and doctor will be able to keep them under his plan. The President has to know it is dishonest to tell the American people they will be able to keep their policy. Under the President’s plan, a bureaucrat will decide if an individual’s policy will qualify, and then the employer will decide if he can afford the higher premiums. In many cases, there will not even be a qualified policy for the individual to decide to keep. Yes, we’ve heard all the lies Mr. President.”
09.04.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following statement on President Barack Obama’s group of czars, including so-called “green jobs” czar Van Jones.“President Obama has assembled a lineup of over 30 czars that are out of touch with mainstream Americans. Drawn from a vast reservoir of Obama’s pre-office, out of the mainstream affiliations, these czars are unaccountable to Congress and the American people. They are accountable only to the President and reflect his values, policy and positions. “It is ironic that on a day in which the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported the U.S. economy lost 216,000 jobs in August and the national unemployment rate is now the highest level in twenty-six years at 9.7%, President Obama’s ‘green jobs’ czar is under fire. Green jobs are a hoax and deny the realities of a free market economy. There can only be ‘green jobs’ if they are mandated by a socialized government. Rather than creating more bureaucrats and taxpayer-funded ‘green jobs’ at a direct cost in real jobs in the private sector, this Administration needs to reverse its Keynesian attack on economic recovery and stop spending our grandchildren’s money. “Van Jones is a self-avowed Communist and currently the most visible of President Obama’s friends and confidants. Firing Van Jones will only remove one anti-American counterculturalist from the czar ranks, but it is a start.” More info on Van Jones is available here.
08.24.2009	A better understanding of the uninsured can help policymakers target more cost-effective health care solutions. For the complete picture of who is uninsured in America, please acess the following chart: http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/graphics/UninsuredPie.pdf.
08.13.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced he will host a series of eight town hall meetings across western Iowa in August. All eight town hall meetings are open to the public and the media. Congressman King will deliver opening remarks and take questions.“I look forward to hearing from concerned citizens and to discussing health care reform and other current issues at these eight meetings,” King said. “Town hall meetings better equip me to represent western Iowans in Congress and give our region a strong voice on Capitol Hill.” King’s schedule follows:Monday, August 24, 2009Woodbury County Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Western Iowa Tech Community College, Large Lecture Hall (D103), 4647 Stone Avenue, Sioux CityLyon County Town Hall Meeting 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Forster Community Center, 404 1st Avenue, Rock RapidsClay County Town Hall Meeting 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Spencer Public Library, 21 E 3rd Street, SpencerTuesday, August 25, 2009Pottawattamie County Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Council Bluffs Public Library, Room A and B, 400 Willow Avenue, Council BluffsPage County Town Hall Meeting 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Lied Public Library, Conference Room, 100 East Garfield Street, ClarindaCass County Town Hall Meeting 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Atlantic Public Library, 507 Poplar Street, AtlanticWednesday, August 26, 2009Shelby County Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Iowa Western Community College, Room 113, 1901 Hawkeye Avenue, HarlanCarroll County Town Hall Meeting 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. Santa Maria Winery, 218 W 6th Street, Carroll
08.11.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, the highest ranking Republican on the House Immigration Subcommittee, today disagreed with comments made by President Barack Obama in support of amnesty. When asked about passing an amnesty bill yesterday, President Obama said, “Am I going to be able to snap my fingers and get this done? No. . . . There are going to be demagogues out there who try to suggest that any form of pathway for legalization for those who are already in the United States is unacceptable.” “The President of the United States called the majority of Americans who support enforcement of our immigration laws and oppose amnesty demagogues,” King said. “President Obama’s comments make it clear that he is committed to an amnesty plan that will sacrifice the Rule of Law and cost American workers their jobs. American workers are depending on this Administration to protect their jobs from those in America illegally by enforcing immigration laws and opposing amnesty. Instead, President Obama is determined to ram a comprehensive amnesty bill through Congress against the wishes of the majority of the American people.”
08.06.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today made the following statement regarding Senate confirmation of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to the United States Supreme Court. “It is too bad Judge Sotomayor’s confirmation hearings and the public dialog about her nomination centered on race and gender rather than jurisprudence. To those who see her confirmation as a triumph of race and gender, I say first ‘congratulations’ if you are now inspired to self-motivation and if you dedicate yourselves to individual achievement based on merit rather than race, ethnicity or gender. “If you achieve excellence in anything you decide to do, you will create opportunities for yourselves and inspiration for others. The excellence of Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier in baseball in 1947 and made him MVP only two years later. No barriers exist today that compare with those Robinson faced. And no barriers exist today that cannot be overcome simply by achieving excellence. God Bless America for how far we have come! Every American has the opportunity to triumph over every actual or perceived barrier. “Sadly, it is clear that the jurisprudence of Judge Sonia Sotomayor is not the only qualification that placed her on the Supreme Court. It is also clear that her judicial activism was a requirement rather than a disqualifier. Judicial activism effectively amends the Constitution. The very last nine people on the planet who should be amending the Constitution are Supreme Court Justices. I will watch her decisions carefully, encourage her to adhere to the Constitution and encourage her to reject de facto amendments to it and the unconstitutional preferences that were one of the qualifiers that President Obama used in her selection.”
08.06.2009	COUNCIL BLUFFS - Congressman Steve King will honor local, state and federal law enforcement agents involved with “Operation Tow Truck” on Tuesday. “Operation Tow Truck” was a law enforcement operation based in the Council Bluffs area to identify individuals involved in criminal activity and to disrupt their financial gain from these activities. Targeted crimes included the possession and sale of stolen vehicles, property, explosives, weapons and narcotics. The operation has been extremely successful. WHAT: Event Recognizing Local, State and Federal Law Enforcement Agents Involved With “Operation Tow Truck” WHO: Congressman Steve King and Local, State and Federal Law Enforcement Agents WHEN: Tuesday, August 11, 2009, 9:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. WHERE: Council Bluffs Public Library, 400 Willow Avenue, Council Bluffs
08.05.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King announced that a federal appropriation for U.S. Highway 20 was included in H.R. 3288, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010. King secured $750,000 in funding to continue construction of the final 90 miles of four-lane Highway 20 in northwest Iowa. This funding is in addition to $570,000 the project received earlier this year. Federal funding for Highway 20 totals more than $26,000,000 during Congressman King’s time in Congress. "For decades, many of us in northwest Iowa have been working together to four-lane Highway 20," said King. "This funding will continue progress toward the completion of this important project.” In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. H.R. 3288 passed the House on July 23, and Congressman King opposed the legislation due to its total cost. Without justification, the bill greatly increased funding levels for various government agencies. After passing the House, the bill awaits action by the Senate and must be signed by the President to become law.
07.30.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Iowa Congressmen Steve King and Tom Latham today introduced the Medicare Support for Rural Hospitals Act. The legislation will provide increased Medicare payments to “tweener” hospitals - hospitals too large to receive additional Medicare payments as Critical Access Hospitals, but too small to be financially viable under the Medicare hospital prospective payment system (PPS). There are eight “tweener” hospitals in Iowa, including three in Iowa’s Fifth District: St. Anthony Regional Hospital (Carroll), Spencer Municipal Hospital and Lakes Regional Hospital (Spirit Lake). Other “tweener” hospitals in Iowa are located in Fort Madison, Muscatine, Grinnell, Newton and Keokuk. “Iowa’s rural hospitals are extremely important to the communities they serve,” Congressman King said. “It is important that we take steps to ensure the viability of our rural hospitals. For years, these tweener hospitals have been put at a significant financial disadvantage by Medicare’s payment policies. This bill will begin to address this problem by providing these hospitals with much-needed support through increased Medicare payments. This will allow these important community anchors to continue the great work they do in rural Iowa.” “Iowa hospitals continue to deal with a Medicare system that penalizes medical facilities in rural areas,” Congressman Latham said. “This system ultimately hurts the seniors and communities that depend on these hospitals, and I’m proud to work toward a more equitable disbursement of Medicare payments.”
07.30.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today announced that he nominated Gary and Sandy Launderville of Alta for an "Angels in Adoption" award from the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI). The Laundervilles have adopted seven children and provided foster care for 96 children in need over the past 16 years. “Sheriff Gary and Sandy Launderville have made an extraordinary contribution to children in need for over 16 years,” said King. “The Laundervilles are shining examples for western Iowa. It gives me great pleasure to honor this remarkable couple that truly deserves the title 'Angels in Adoption.' The Laundervilles are angels in the eyes of their community and in the eyes of the children they have cared for.” Background on Laundervilles: The Laundervilles have opened the doors of their home in Alta, Iowa for over sixteen years. The Laundervilles started their journey by becoming licensed foster parents in 1991. In 1996, the Laundervilles became certified adoptive parents. In addition to providing foster care for 96 children, the Laundervilles have adopted seven children and have four biological children. The Laundervilles have also provided a home for foreign exchange students and are members of the Summit Evangelical Free Church in Alta. They are actively engaged with the adult, youth and children groups at their church. Gary serves as Sheriff of Buena Vista County. Sandy is a foster parent liaison in eleven northwest Iowa counties. She provides new and existing foster parents with information on adoption. Sandy is also a family team facilitator for Buena Vista and Clay counties. She provides support and resources to help strengthen families. Sandy also leads the foster and adoptive parent support groups in northwest Iowa and teaches classes for new foster and adoptive parents throughout northwest Iowa. What is the Angel in Adoption Program? As CCAI’s signature public awareness program, ANGELS IN ADOPTION provides Members of Congress an opportunity to honor an individual or entity that has enriched the lives of foster children or orphans. These unsung heroes hail from all 50 states and the District of Columbia and represent the wide spectrum of individuals involved in the adoption and foster care process. Since the program’s inception in 1999, over 1300 “Angels” have received this honor. What is the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI)? The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe and loving homes; and to eliminating the barriers that hinder these children from realizing their basic right of a family.
07.30.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Chris Chocola, President of The Club for Growth, the nation's leading free-market advocacy organization with over 40,000 members, announced that Congressman Steve King has earned the annual Defender of Economic Freedom award. The award honors Members of Congress who have a strong voting record on economic growth issues. “Congressman King is a champion of the pro-growth agenda,” Chocola said. “As 1 of 54 Congressional Members to earn this award, Congressman King has demonstrated a strong commitment to economic freedom and free-market principles.” The award is based on certain votes in 2008 that the Club for Growth tracks on its scorecard, including cutting and limiting government spending, lowering taxes, expanding free trade, regulatory reform and deregulation. The study included a comprehensive examination of each lawmaker’s record on pro-growth policies and computed an Economic Growth Score on a scale of 0 to 100. A score of 100 indicates the highest support for pro-growth policies. Those lawmakers scoring 90 or higher receive the Defender of Economic Freedom award. “I am grateful to receive this award from the Club for Growth,” King said. “The principles this award is based upon are the foundations of our nation’s economic strength and prosperity and key to the creation of more good-paying jobs.”
07.29.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today made the following statement about new research from the Heritage Foundation revealing that 6,900 Iowa small business owners will pay a 5.4 percent surtax under the liberal health care plan being debated in Congress. The Heritage study also states that the liberal plan will carry a $1.3 trillion price tag and will increase the tax burden of 2.04 million Americans, about half of them small business owners. “Liberals have put forth a health care plan that will empower Washington bureaucrats to control our health care system. To pay for their plan, liberals are proposing more job-killing tax hikes – up to an additional 5.4 percent – on the engine of economic growth in America: small businesses. “In Iowa and across America, many small business owners are doing all they can just to get by. Hard and smart working Iowa small business owners cannot afford these tax hikes. Iowa’s small businesses employ 668,226 people per year, and a number of these jobs will be lost if these tax hikes go through. Raising the taxes of small business owners will cost jobs and could result in some small businesses shutting their doors and closing their operations. “Instead of destroying jobs and empowering Washington bureaucrats to control our health care system, I want to create new jobs and protect the relationship between patients and doctors. The liberal plan will decrease the quality of our health care, cost American jobs and raise our taxes to pay for more Washington spending.” The full Heritage Foundation study is available at http://www.heritage.org/research/healthcare/upload/Surtax_table.pdf.
07.24.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today introduced an amendment to the Labor-HHS Appropriations Bill prohibiting any taxpayer money in the bill from going to ACORN (Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now) or any of its 174 affiliates. Liberals on the House Rules Committee ruled King’s amendment out of order. This is the seventh amendment addressing ACORN liberals have denied King from offering. King has previously introduced amendments to keep ACORN from receiving taxpayer money and to bar ACORN from helping with the 2010 census. “John Conyers is right: the ‘powers that be’ in this Congress will do all they can to protect ACORN,” King said. “ACORN is corroding the integrity of our electoral process by attacking the sanctity of the ballot box and using taxpayer dollars to do so, and Nancy Pelosi and Democrats on Capitol Hill are complicit in ACORN’s cover-up. Shielding ACORN from oversight ensures that this liberal get-out-the-vote machine will continue its shady practices. It is time for every member of this Congress to go on record on taxpayer funding for ACORN.” About ACORN: - In June, the Washington Times reported that House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers “backed off his plan to investigate wrongdoing by the liberal activist group ACORN, saying ‘powers that be’ put the kibosh on the idea.” - ACORN is under is under investigation in at least 14 states. - ACORN as an entity was charged with voter fraud in Nevada. - ACORN has admitted to over 400,000 fraudulent voter registrations in the 2008 election cycle. - ACORN has received $53 million in taxpayer dollars since 1994. - ACORN is eligible to receive $8.5 billion more in federal tax dollars. - ACORN played a role in the mortgage meltdown by pressuring banks to make bad loans. - ACORN and its affiliates all use the same accounting firm and same mailing address in New Orleans, Louisiana.
07.24.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, the Ranking Member of the House Immigration Subcommittee, made the following statement on the death of Border Patrol Agent Robert Rosas who was killed in the line of duty. “Today we honor the life of Agent Robert Rosas and thank him for his service to our country,” said King. “As a sovereign nation, we must control our borders. Agent Rosas sacrificed his life maintaining the rule of law in America. I send my deepest condolences to his family. My thoughts and prayers are with them and his fellow agents.”
07.23.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, a member of the Pro-Life Caucus, made the following statement regarding abortion funding in the health care reform bill being pushed by liberals in Congress. “Health care is about protecting life, not taking it. The health care bill put forward by liberals in this Congress will force pro-life Americans to pay for abortions in violation of their deeply held religious convictions. We know from past experience that unless abortion funding is expressly prohibited, it will be mandated and subsidized. Nowhere in this bill is taxpayer funding for abortion prohibited. “This bill will also penalize Americans enrolled in health insurance plans that do not provide abortions. Bureaucrats will define ‘minimum benefit standards’ to require coverage of abortion, and any employer who offers a plan that does not cover abortion will face up to 8% in tax penalties. Individuals who choose not to purchase a plan that covers abortion will be forced to pay a 2.5% tax penalty. “Americans should be free to have a health care plan that does not pay for abortions and should have the right to refuse to pay for abortions with their hard-earned tax dollars.”
07.22.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — According to the Congressional Budget Office, the 2019 non-Medicare population of the United States will include 14.1 million illegal aliens. CBO projects that up to 8.5 million of the 14.1 million illegal aliens in the United States in 2019 will not have health insurance, meaning passage of their bill will see to it that up to 5.6 million illegal aliens have health insurance - in large part because the liberal proposal does not include any requirements to verify the citizenship or immigration status of those receiving taxpayer-funded health benefits. Congressman Steve King (R-IA), the Ranking Member on the House Immigration Subcommittee, today spoke against illegal aliens receiving health care benefits under the liberals’ so-called health care reform proposal: “Taxpaying families, already weighed down by bailouts and massive spending bills, cannot afford to pay for health insurance for millions of illegal aliens. Hard and smart working Iowans should not be forced to pay for illegal aliens to obtain health benefits under any health care reform plan. “It is wrong to reward law breakers. The American people are speaking loud and clear and saying, ‘No health care for illegal aliens.’”
07.17.2009	SIOUX CITY - Congressman Steve King will host a roundtable discussion on health care reform tomorrow in Sioux City. Representatives from various health care organizations will discuss their perspectives on health reform proposals currently being considered in Congress with Congressman King. WHAT: Sioux City Health Care Roundtable WHO: Congressman Steve King and representatives from Mercy Hospital, St. Luke’s Hospital, the Iowa Health Care Association, the Woodbury County Medical Society, and the Independent Insurance Agents of Iowa WHEN: Saturday, July 18, 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. WHERE: Nylen Cancer Center, 230 Nebraska Street, Sioux City
07.16.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today signed the Let Freedom Ring Health Care Reform Pledge. The Pledge is available at http://www.letfreedomringusa.com/pledge-to-read. By signing, Congressman King pledges to oppose any health care proposal he has not read and that is not publicly available for at least 72 hours before a vote in Congress. King’s statement follows: “Liberals have put forth a health care plan that will empower Washington bureaucrats to control our health care system. To pay for their plan, liberals are proposing more job-killing tax hikes – up to an additional 5.4 percent – on the engine of economic growth in America: small businesses. This plan will decrease the quality of our health care, cost American jobs and raise our taxes to pay for more Washington spending. “A massive government health care takeover like this should not be considered lightly. Signing this pledge is an indication of how seriously I take all attempts to reform our health care system. Americans cannot allow a bloated, big-government proposal to slip through without appropriate review. “I support health care reform that strengthens, not hurts, the relationship between patients and doctors. Patients and their families need to be able to make health care decisions based on consultations with doctors. We do not need Washington bureaucrats deciding what we can and cannot do.”
07.15.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today made the following statement about the so-called health care reform proposal introduced this week by House Democrats: “What separates the American health care system from others in the world is the relationship between patients and their doctors. Unlike the government-run health care systems in Canada, Great Britain and other countries, our system allows Americans to make health care decisions without government rationing of care. Any attempt at health care reform must strengthen, not hurt, the relationship between patients and doctors. Patients and their families need to be able to make health care decisions based on consultations with doctors. We do not need Washington bureaucrats deciding what we can and cannot do. “Liberals have put forth a health care plan that will empower Washington bureaucrats to control our health care system. To pay for their plan, liberals are proposing more job-killing tax hikes – up to an additional 5.4 percent – on the engine of economic growth in America: small businesses. This plan will decrease the quality of our health care, cost American jobs and raise our taxes to pay for more Washington spending. “Better ideas for health care reform include full deductibility of medical expenses for all Americans, medical malpractice reform, an increase in Health Savings Account contribution amounts, giving consumers the ability to purchase health insurance across state lines, allowing small businesses to band together to negotiate lower costs for themselves and their employees through Association Health Plans and fixing Medicare reimbursements to raise reimbursement rates for states like Iowa that have high quality care at a low cost. These are real solutions that will protect the relationship between patients and doctors and improve the quality of health care in America without raising taxes.”
07.14.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA), a member of the House Judiciary Committee, today made the following statement on Senate hearings of Judge Sonia Sotomayor’s nomination to the United States Supreme Court. “Supreme Court decisions have effectively amended our Constitution regularly and with impunity for decades. Nearly all of the social conflict in this country stems from the Court’s extra-constitutional interference with the voice of the people. The very last people in America who should be amending the Constitution are the Supreme Court justices. The Supreme Court is charged with interpreting the Constitution, but instead its recent activism has amended it. “The American public needs to know if Judge Sotomayor will put her liberal policy preferences above neutral application of the law. America does not need another justice who decides cases based on personal experiences and personal political opinions rather than on the clear text of the Constitution. We need to know if Judge Sotomayor will adhere to our Constitution, not diverge from it and legislate from the bench. “Of the ten Sotomayor decisions considered by the Supreme Court, eight have been reversed or vacated and another was harshly criticized. The majority of the Supreme Court agreed with her rationale just one time. Too much is at stake to confirm a judge who is, according to the Supreme Court, wrong 90 percent of the time.”
07.13.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Thursday, the House of Representatives considered a resolution “Directing the Architect of the Capitol to engrave the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag and the National Motto of “In God we trust” in the Capitol Visitor Center.” Though the resolution received 410 votes, eight members voted in opposition to this resolution, and two members voted present (http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2009/roll515.xml). Earlier in the week, the House passed a resolution “Directing the Architect of the Capitol to place a marker in Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center which acknowledges the role that slave labor played in the construction of the United States Capitol.” This resolution passed 399-1 (http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2009/roll478.xml). The lone vote in opposition was Congressman Steve King, who explained his reasons for opposing the resolution in this statement. Last in the week, a total of 10 Members of the House did not honor the deal by voting “No” or “Present” on the second resolution. Members objecting on Thursday included: ---- NOES 8 --- Conyers Edwards (MD) Hirono Honda McDermott Paul Scott (VA) Stark ---- ANSWERED “PRESENT” 2 --- Farr Moran (VA)
07.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement regarding $16.1 million in the Democrats' "stimulus" bill that went to wetlands restoration projects in San Francisco. The taxpayer money went to protect the salt marsh harvest mouse, even after Speaker Nancy Pelosi - who represents San Francisco - publicly stated there would be no earmarks in the stimulus bill. “Months ago, over the objections of House Republicans, Nancy Pelosi muscled a non-stimulating bill full of liberal pet projects through Congress at a price of over a trillion dollars. We are starting to see what our hard-earned money went towards. “We are learning about numerous states failing to meet the goals and requirements of the ‘stimulus’ package. Our national unemployment rate is rising, and few, if any, new jobs have been created. Now we learn that Nancy Pelosi’s famous pet project - the salt marsh harvest mouse – got a piece of taxpayer funded cheese after all. “How many jobs could we have saved if we left these mice alone? This is just the latest example of how Nancy Pelosi’s failed economic philosophy has led to wasteful spending and job losses.” Note: Two San Francisco wetlands restoration projects received $16.1 million as part of the stimulus passed by Congress: http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories2009/20090630_restoration.html.
07.08.2009	Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement after voting against H RES 135 last evening. The resolution directs the Architect of the Capitol to place a marker in Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center acknowledging the role that slave labor played in the construction of the United States Capitol.“In the Capitol Visitor’s Center, we agreed to change the name of the Great Hall - which honored the immigrants that came legally to America - to Emancipation Hall to honor the 645,000 slaves and their descendants who were brought to the United States more than two centuries ago. “Last night I opposed yet another bill to erect another monument to slavery because it was used as a bargaining chip to allow for the actual depiction of ‘In God We Trust’ in the CVC. The Architect of the Capitol and liberal activists opposed every reference to America’s Christian heritage, even to the extent of scrubbing ‘In God We Trust’ from the depiction of the actual Speaker’s chair in the U.S. House of Representatives. “This is just the latest example of a several year effort by liberals in Congress to scrub references to America’s Christian heritage from our nation's Capitol. Liberals want to amend our country’s history to eradicate the role of Christianity in America and chisel references to God or faith from our historical buildings. “Our Judeo-Christian heritage is an essential foundation stone of our great nation and should not be held hostage to yet another effort to place guilt on future Americans for the sins of some of their ancestors. Christian abolitionists gave their lives by the hundreds of thousands to end slavery. Great American leaders like Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. worshipped God just as our Founding Fathers did. We must never forget this important aspect of our heritage or use it as a political bargaining chip.”
07.07.2009	On Monday, July 6, Congressman Steve King hosted a forum on “cap and trade” legislation at the Western Iowa Tech campus in Sioux City. Concerned citizens from Western Iowa and the tri-state area were invited to come and discuss the cap and trade bill and its effect on the Midwest. The legislation recently passed the House and is now under consideration in the Senate. Joining Congressman King at the forum as panelists were Bill Fehrman of MidAmerican Energy Company, Dave Miller of Iowa Farm Bureau, Chuck Soderberg of Northwest Iowa Power Cooperative and Monte Shaw of Iowa Renewable Fuels Association. Concerned citizens who could not make it to the forum are encouraged to contact their Senators and Congressman King with written thoughts on the legislation. King made the following statement about the forum: “I want to thank everyone who made it to the forum or provided written thoughts for me to take a look at. I am grateful for the time folks spent sharing their valuable insights and experiences with me. I also appreciated and benefited from the outstanding panel of energy experts representing the electric generation and transmission industry, the renewable fuels industry and the agricultural sector. “This forum confirmed my belief that proposed cap and trade legislation is far-reaching and will increase energy costs for Iowa’s families, farmers and small businesses. It will also cost millions of Americans their jobs. “If this cap and tax bill passes the Senate, it will not be reversible. We will be stuck with it. Western Iowa cannot afford this legislation to reach the President’s desk for a signature. I will continue to oppose this bill and urge concerned citizens across Iowa and America to do the same.”
07.01.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Steve King, the ranking member on the House Immigration Subcommittee, will participate in a three day assessment of current border security efforts today through Friday, July 1-3. King and immigration enforcement officials will be at the United States/Mexico Border in Arizona to assess the effectiveness of current programs and to meet with key personnel. WHAT: Assessment of Current Border Security Efforts WHO: Congressman Steve King and immigration enforcement officials WHEN: Wednesday-Friday, July 1-3 WHERE: United States/Mexico Border in Arizona
06.26.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following statement after voting against Nancy Pelosi’s energy tax legislation, also known as “cap and trade.” “Today liberal Democrats voted to slap a massive new energy tax on every American. This cap and tax bill increases energy costs for Iowa’s families, farmers and small businesses and will cost millions of Americans their jobs. It forces American companies to comply with costly new regulations, while companies in foreign countries without these rules, like China, won’t have to.“In these tough economic times, why do liberals want to add to your family’s burdens by raising your energy costs and giving China a leg up? This bill is the most colossal mistake in the history of this Congress. “My only hope is this bill won’t have the votes to pass the Senate. I encourage all Iowans and Americans to contact their Senators and ask them to oppose this cap and tax bill.” Note: Heritage Foundation research reveals the “cap and trade” bill will result in a $362.81 million personal income loss in 2012 in Iowa’s Fifth District - http://www.heritage.org/research/energyandenvironment/upload/wm2504_table1.pdf. Heritage Foundation research also reveals the bill will cost American families $2,979 a year - http://blog.heritage.org/2009/05/20/the-waxman-markey-global-warming-tax/.
06.26.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Steve King will participate in a two day energy survey off the coast of Louisiana on Monday and Tuesday, June 29-30. King and other Members of Congress will visit the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) on Monday to learn more about offshore oil and gas production and coastal erosion, and receive briefings on Tuesday from the Minerals Management Service (MMS) regarding offshore drilling and the leasing process. WHAT: Energy Survey of Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) and Offshore Drilling Facilities WHO: Congressman Steve King and other House Members WHEN: Monday and Tuesday, June 29-30 WHERE: The Outer Continental Shelf off the coast of Louisiana To set up an interview with Rep. King during or after the tour, please respond to this email or call 202-225-4426. Congressman King will have brief periods of availability during the energy survey.
06.26.2009	Congressman Steve King today responded to comments made by House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers that the Judiciary Committee will back off plans to investigate the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN). The Washington Times reported that Conyers “backed off his plan to investigate wrongdoing by the liberal activist group ACORN, saying ‘powers that be’ put the kibosh on the idea.” King’s statement follows:“Chairman Conyers’ comments confirm that liberals in this Pelosi Congress will do whatever it takes to protect ACORN. Shielding ACORN from oversight ensures that this liberal get-out-the-vote machine will continue its shady practices. ACORN’s grasp on this Pelosi Congress is so strong that the Chairman of a powerful Committee is afraid to hold even a single hearing on ACORN’s activities. “It is time for every member of this Congress to go on record regarding ACORN. ACORN and its estimated 270 corporate affiliates comprise a complex organizational and financial spiderweb with all the appearance of a criminal enterprise. ACORN is facing charges of voter fraud and tax violations, yet it has received over $53 million in taxpayer funds. ACORN is corroding the integrity of our electoral process by attacking the sanctity of the ballot box and using taxpayer dollars to do so, and Nancy Pelosi and Democrats on Capitol Hill are complicit in ACORN’s cover-up.“Who are the powers that be, Speaker Pelosi or President Obama, who has been both an employee and employer of ACORN?”
06.25.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, the ranking member on the House Immigration Subcommittee, today reacted to this afternoon’s White House immigration summit. Despite serving as the top Republican on the House subcommittee that deals with immigration issues, Congressman King - along with other Republican enforcement first leaders - was not invited to attend the summit. “The American people want this Administration to enforce existing immigration laws and secure our borders. A recent Washington Post-ABC News poll revealed that 74 percent of Americans believe the government is not doing enough to keep illegal immigrants from entering the country. “The balance of the views inside the room at today’s White House immigration summit does not reflect the views of the American public. Despite overwhelming opposition to amnesty within the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Lamar Smith of Texas will be the lone House Republican invited who opposes comprehensive amnesty. The White House stacked the deck and packed today’s summit with amnesty advocates. President Obama wants an amnesty bill, and while cynically creating a false perception of inclusiveness and bipartisanship, brought in a group that, almost without exception, supports his vision of rewarding law breakers. “In our current economic crisis, Americans cannot afford to lose more jobs to illegal workers. There are currently 14.5 million unemployed Americans and another six million Americans looking for a job. This is the time for the Obama administration to accelerate enforcement of immigration law to make room for unemployed Americans. For every illegal working in America, there are two Americans who need a job. American workers are depending on President Obama to protect their jobs from those illegally in America, and the majority of the American public does not support amnesty. “By not engaging with those who disagree with his pro-amnesty views, President Obama is holding an immigration summit that gives a cold shoulder to millions of Americans. As for me, I would much rather be on the outside of the White House speaking up for the Rule of Law than on the inside going through the motions.” Note: A Washington Post-ABC News poll showed 74 percent of Americans believe “that the government is not doing enough to keep illegal immigrants from entering the country.” (http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/04/30/AR2009043001640.html?popup=false)
06.24.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today reacted to the Supreme Court’s ruling on the Voting Rights Act (Northwest Austin Municipal Utility District No. One v. Holder). The Court ruled that a Texas utility district could get out from under current regulation when making election-related changes, but the Court did not decide on the constitutionality of the Voting Rights Act. “When Congress initially passed the Voting Rights Act, it never intended to place strict limitations on the bail out provisions of Section 5. Rather than provide jurisdictions that have no history of discrimination with the ability to bail out, the Department of Justice has only allowed 17 out of over 12,000 jurisdictions to bail out of coverage. “As the justices unanimously noted, Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act raises serious constitutional concerns. It is clear that Section 5 injects unconstitutional principles like race-based districts into our electoral process.”
06.23.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today reacted to news that ACORN International will change its name Community Organizers International. “I have been calling for both Congressional and FBI investigations of ACORN for months. ACORN has to be nuts to believe it can avoid criminal investigation by simply changing its name. What is next, grow a beard and wear a pair of sunglasses? “ACORN has so stained its reputation that it feels it must re-name and re-brand itself. Changing its name to Community Organizers International is an attempt to capitalize on the positive image of ‘community organizers.’ Most community organizers do not cover up embezzlements, shake down lenders, corrupt the electoral process and engage in voter registration fraud. “ACORN can change its name, but it remains a complex organizational and financial spiderweb with all the appearance of a criminal enterprise. Changing its name will not change the fact that the nut does not fall far from the tree.”
06.22.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King (R-IA) and Congressman Connie Mack (R-FL) have introduced the Davis-Bacon Repeal Act (H.R. 2900), which would repeal the wage rate requirements mandated by the Davis-Bacon Act. The legislation was referred to the Committee on Education and Labor. The Davis-Bacon Act, a Depression-era wage subsidy law, requires that each public works contract over $2,000 contain a clause that mandates “prevailing” wages be paid. Contractors and subcontractors are forced to pay a “prevailing wage” set by the federal government. These wages, however, rarely resemble local market conditions. Instead, they tend to reflect the inflated pay scale of union workers in the area. Davis-Bacon disproportionately impacts small companies and rural businesses. "It is wrong for the federal government to impose a union wage scale on small communities and small contractors. A recent government study showed that 'prevailing wages,’ as determined by the federal government, were in error 100% of the time," Congressman King said. “Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements are wrong for our country,” Congressman Mack said. “This antiquated provision hinders our economic recovery by making fewer projects and fewer jobs available to fewer people. Instead of pandering to Big Labor, Congress should be fostering a competitive environment for businesses to be able to hire more people for more jobs. And we can start by passing our legislation to repeal Davis-Bacon once and for all.” The Davis-Bacon law discourages small businesses from bidding on public projects because of the difficulty of meeting the complex and archaic reporting rules it requires. And, because it requires the payment of inflated union-scale wages, most small businesses are often priced out of competition – leaving large, unionized firms to divvy up the work to be done under taxpayer funded federal construction contracts. Davis-Bacon’s requirement that workers be paid inflated wages increases the cost of completing federal construction projects. Davis-Bacon wage rates are an average of 22% higher than the standard wage rate in an area. The fact that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act required the payment of Davis-Bacon wages for all of the construction projects it funded will inflate the cost to taxpayers of completing these projects by $17 billion. “The Davis-Bacon Act is nothing more than an out-dated, racially charged, Depression-era wage subsidy law that has no place in the 21st Century market,” Brian Johnson, Executive Director of the Alliance for Worker Freedom, said. “It is not the job of the ever-expanding federal government to dictate how much private sector businesses should pay their employees. Davis-Bacon wage rates increase the cost of every federally funded construction project by almost $9 billion and shift that burden onto the taxpaying American family. I applaud Representatives King and Mack for introducing this legislation.”
06.18.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today reacted to efforts by Democrat House leadership to block amendments he introduced to H.R. 2847, the Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill. King introduced an amendment to keep the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN) out of the 2010 Census, effectively barring taxpayer dollars in the bill provided to the Census Bureau from being disbursed to ACORN. King also introduced an amendment that would bar any taxpayer dollars in the bill from being provided to ACORN. In June 2006, then minority leader Nancy Pelosi unveiled a plan entitled “A New Direction for America.” Language in the plan explicitly stated that “Every person in America has a right to have his or her voice heard. No Member of Congress should be silenced on the Floor.” Another direct quote from her plan: “Bills should generally come to the Floor under a procedure that allows open, full, and fair debate consisting of a full amendment process that grants the Minority the right to offer its alternatives.” Last night, Speaker Pelosi and Democrat leaders passed a gag rule to ensure King’s amendments never made it to the House floor. King’s statement follows: “Three years after Speaker Pelosi’s grandiose promises, the hypocrisy of her 2006 pledges is glaring. This Pelosi Congress is violating its commitments to the American people so it can protect its political cronies like ACORN. “ACORN is facing charges of voter fraud and tax violations and has received over $53 million in taxpayer funds, yet Democrats refuse to allow a debate, let alone cut off ACORN’s access to the taxpayers’ wallet. ACORN could soon be running the 2010 census if President Obama, a former ACORN employee, follows through on plans to have ACORN ‘partner’ with the Census Bureau. “Justice demands that Congress cut off ACORN’s access to taxpayer dollars and put an immediate end to ACORN’s involvement in the 2010 census.”
06.16.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King introduced an amendment to H.R. 2847, the Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill, to keep the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN) out of the 2010 Census. King’s amendment would bar taxpayer dollars in the bill provided to the Census Bureau from being disbursed to ACORN. King also introduced another amendment that would bar any taxpayer dollars in the bill from being provided to ACORN. The House will begin debating the legislation and amendments this evening. King’s statement follows: “It is time for every member of this Congress to go on record in support of or opposition to ACORN. ACORN and its estimated 270 corporate affiliates comprise a complex organizational and financial spiderweb with all the appearance of a criminal enterprise. ACORN is facing charges of voter fraud and tax violations, yet it has received over $53 million in taxpayer funds. “Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank and his liberal friends have opened the taxpayers’ wallet to as much as an additional $8.5 billion that could be accessed by ACORN. “ACORN could soon be running the 2010 census if President Obama, a former ACORN employee, follows through on plans to have ACORN ‘partner’ with the Census Bureau. It is time to cut off ACORN’s access to taxpayer dollars and put an end to ACORN’s involvement in the 2010 census.” The text of King’s amendments follow: Amendment to H.R. 2847, Offered by Mr. King of Iowa At the end of the bill, before the short title, insert the following: Section. ____. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be made available to the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, Acorn Beneficial Assoc., Inc., Arkansas Broadcast Foundation, Inc., Acorn Children’s Beneficial Assoc., Arkansas Community Housing Corp., Acorn Community Land Assoc., Inc., Acorn Community Land Assoc. of Illinois, Acorn Community Land Association of Louisiana, Acorn Community Land Assoc. of Pennsylvania, ACORN COMMUNITY LABOR ORGANIZING CENTER, ACORN Beverly LLC, ACORN Canada, ACORN Center for Housing, ACORN Housing Affordable Loans LLC, Acorn Housing 1 Associates, LP, Acorn Housing 2 Associates, LP, ACORN Housing 3 Associates LP, ACORN Housing 4 Associates, L.P., ACORN International, ACORN VOTES, Acorn 2004 Housing Development Fund Corporation, ACRMW, ACSI, Acorn Cultural Trust, Inc., American Environmental Justice Project, Inc., ACORN Fund, Inc., Acorn Fair Housing Organization, Inc., Acorn Foster Parents, Inc., Agape Broadcast Foundation Inc., Acorn Housing Corporation, Arkansas Acorn Housing Corporation, Acorn Housing Corp. of Arizona, Acorn Housing Corp. of Illinois, Acorn Housing Corp. of Missouri, New Jersey ACORN Housing Corporation, Inc., AHCNY, Acorn Housing Corp. of Pennsylvania, Texas ACORN Housing Corporation, Inc., American Institute for Social Justice, Acorn law for Education, Rep. & Training, Acorn Law Reform Pac, Affiliated Media Foundation Movement, Albuquerque Minimum Wage Committee, Acorn National Broadcasting Network, Arkansas New Party, Arkansas Acorn Political Action Committee, Association for Rights of Citizens, Acorn Services, Inc., Acorn Television in Action for Communities, Acorn Tenants’ Union, Inc., Acorn Tenant Union Training & Org. Project, AWA, Baltimore Organizing Support Center, Inc., Bronx Parent Leadership, Baton Rouge ACORN Education Project, Inc., Baton Rouge Assoc. of School Employees, Broad Street Corporation, California Acorn Political Action Committee, Citizens Action Research Project, Council Beneficial Association, Citizens Campaign for Fair Work, Living Wage Etc., Citizens Consulting, Inc., California Community Network, Citizens for April Troope, Clean Government Pac, Chicago Organizing and Support Center, Inc., Council Health Plan, Citizens Services Society, Campaign For Justice at Avondale, CLOC, Community and Labor for Baltimore, Chief Organizer Fund, Colorado Organizing and Support Center, Community Real Estate Processing, Inc., Campaign to Reward Work, Citizens Services Incorporated, Elysian Fields Corporation, Environmental Justice Training Project, Inc., Franklin Acorn Housing Corporation, Flagstaff Broadcast Foundation, Floridians for All PAC, Fifteenth Street Corporation, Friends of Wendy Foy, Greenwell Springs Corporations, Genevieve Stewart Campaign Fund, Hammurabi Fund, Houston Organizing Support Center, Hospitality Hotel and Restaurant Org. Council, Iowa ACORN Broadcasting Corp., Illinois Home Day Care Workers Association, Inc., Illinois Acorn Political Action Committee, Illinois New Party, Illinois New Party Political Committee, Institute for Worker Education, Inc., Jefferson Association of Parish Employees, Jefferson Association of School Employees, Johnnie Pugh Campaign Fund, Louisiana ACORN Political Action Committee, Louisiana Acorn Fair Housing, Inc., Labor Neighbor Research & Training Center, Inc., Service Employee Int UNION L100, Local 100 Health and Warfare Fund, Local 100 Political Action Committee, Local 100 Retirement Plan, Service Employees International Union L880, Local 880 SEIU Political Action Committee, Local 880 SEIU Power Political Action Committee, Massachusetts ACORN Political Action Committee, Maryland ACORN Political Action Committee, Mott Haven ACORN Housing Development Fund, Mutual Housing Association of New York, Inc., MHANY A/A/F Neighborhood Restore HDFC, MHANY 2003 HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FUND CORPORATION, Missouri Home Day Care Workers Association, Inc., McClellan Multi Family Corporation, Minnesota ACORN Political Action Committee, Neighbors for Athelia Ray, Neighbors for Maria Torres, Neighbors for Ted Thomas, New Mexico ACORN Fair Housing, Inc., New Mexico ACORN Political Action Committee, New Mexico Organizing Support Center, New Orleans Campaign for a, New York Agency for Community Affairs, Inc., New York Acorn Political Action Committee, New York Organizing and Support Center, Oregon ACORN Political Action Committee, Pennsylvania ACORN Political Action Committee, Pugh Election Committee, People’s Equipment Resource Corporation, Progressive Houston, Pennsylvania Institute for Community Affairs, Inc., Phoenix Organizing and Support Center, Inc., Progressive St. Louis, Referendum Committee for an Accountable Future, Rhode Island APAC, Sixth Avenue Corporation, San Jacinto Street Corp, St. Louis Organizing and Support Center, Inc., St. Louis Tax Reform Group, Inc., Service Workers Action Team, Texas United City-County Employees, Texas United School Employees, Inc., United Security Workers for America, Local, Volunteers for America, Inc., Voting for America, Inc., Washington ACORN Political Action Committee, WARN, Working Families Association, Inc., Wal-Mart Workers Association, 385 Palmetto or 650 Political Action Committee. Amendment to H.R. 2847, Offered by Mr. King of Iowa At the end of the bill, before the short title, insert the following: Sec. ____. None of the funds made available by this Act under “Bureau of the Census” shall be made available to the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, Acorn Beneficial Assoc., Inc., Arkansas Broadcast Foundation, Inc., Acorn Children’s Beneficial Assoc., Arkansas Community Housing Corp., Acorn Community Land Assoc., Inc., Acorn Community Land Assoc. of Illinois, Acorn Community Land Association of Louisiana, Acorn Community Land Assoc. of Pennsylvania, ACORN COMMUNITY LABOR ORGANIZING CENTER, ACORN Beverly LLC, ACORN Canada, ACORN Center for Housing, ACORN Housing Affordable Loans LLC, Acorn Housing 1 Associates, LP, Acorn Housing 2 Associates, LP, ACORN Housing 3 Associates LP, ACORN Housing 4 Associates, L.P., ACORN International, ACORN VOTES, Acorn 2004 Housing Development Fund Corporation, ACRMW, ACSI, Acorn Cultural Trust, Inc., American Environmental Justice Project, Inc., ACORN Fund, Inc., Acorn Fair Housing Organization, Inc., Acorn Foster Parents, Inc., Agape Broadcast Foundation Inc., Acorn Housing Corporation, Arkansas Acorn Housing Corporation, Acorn Housing Corp. of Arizona, Acorn Housing Corp. of Illinois, Acorn Housing Corp. of Missouri, New Jersey ACORN Housing Corporation, Inc., AHCNY, Acorn Housing Corp. of Pennsylvania, Texas ACORN Housing Corporation, Inc., American Institute for Social Justice, Acorn law for Education, Rep. & Training, Acorn Law Reform Pac, Affiliated Media Foundation Movement, Albuquerque Minimum Wage Committee, Acorn National Broadcasting Network, Arkansas New Party, Arkansas Acorn Political Action Committee, Association for Rights of Citizens, Acorn Services, Inc., Acorn Television in Action for Communities, Acorn Tenants’ Union, Inc., Acorn Tenant Union Training & Org. Project, AWA, Baltimore Organizing Support Center, Inc., Bronx Parent Leadership, Baton Rouge ACORN Education Project, Inc., Baton Rouge Assoc. of School Employees, Broad Street Corporation, California Acorn Political Action Committee, Citizens Action Research Project, Council Beneficial Association, Citizens Campaign for Fair Work, Living Wage Etc., Citizens Consulting, Inc., California Community Network, Citizens for April Troope, Clean Government Pac, Chicago Organizing and Support Center, Inc., Council Health Plan, Citizens Services Society, Campaign For Justice at Avondale, CLOC, Community and Labor for Baltimore, Chief Organizer Fund, Colorado Organizing and Support Center, Community Real Estate Processing, Inc., Campaign to Reward Work, Citizens Services Incorporated, Elysian Fields Corporation, Environmental Justice Training Project, Inc., Franklin Acorn Housing Corporation, Flagstaff Broadcast Foundation, Floridians for All PAC, Fifteenth Street Corporation, Friends of Wendy Foy, Greenwell Springs Corporations, Genevieve Stewart Campaign Fund, Hammurabi Fund, Houston Organizing Support Center, Hospitality Hotel and Restaurant Org. Council, Iowa ACORN Broadcasting Corp., Illinois Home Day Care Workers Association, Inc., Illinois Acorn Political Action Committee, Illinois New Party, Illinois New Party Political Committee, Institute for Worker Education, Inc., Jefferson Association of Parish Employees, Jefferson Association of School Employees, Johnnie Pugh Campaign Fund, Louisiana ACORN Political Action Committee, Louisiana Acorn Fair Housing, Inc., Labor Neighbor Research & Training Center, Inc., Service Employee Int UNION L100, Local 100 Health and Warfare Fund, Local 100 Political Action Committee, Local 100 Retirement Plan, Service Employees International Union L880, Local 880 SEIU Political Action Committee, Local 880 SEIU Power Political Action Committee, Massachusetts ACORN Political Action Committee, Maryland ACORN Political Action Committee, Mott Haven ACORN Housing Development Fund, Mutual Housing Association of New York, Inc., MHANY A/A/F Neighborhood Restore HDFC, MHANY 2003 HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FUND CORPORATION, Missouri Home Day Care Workers Association, Inc., McClellan Multi Family Corporation, Minnesota ACORN Political Action Committee, Neighbors for Athelia Ray, Neighbors for Maria Torres, Neighbors for Ted Thomas, New Mexico ACORN Fair Housing, Inc., New Mexico ACORN Political Action Committee, New Mexico Organizing Support Center, New Orleans Campaign for a, New York Agency for Community Affairs, Inc., New York Acorn Political Action Committee, New York Organizing and Support Center, Oregon ACORN Political Action Committee, Pennsylvania ACORN Political Action Committee, Pugh Election Committee, People’s Equipment Resource Corporation, Progressive Houston, Pennsylvania Institute for Community Affairs, Inc., Phoenix Organizing and Support Center, Inc., Progressive St. Louis, Referendum Committee for an Accountable Future, Rhode Island APAC, Sixth Avenue Corporation, San Jacinto Street Corp, St. Louis Organizing and Support Center, Inc., St. Louis Tax Reform Group, Inc., Service Workers Action Team, Texas United City-County Employees, Texas United School Employees, Inc., United Security Workers for America, Local, Volunteers for America, Inc., Voting for America, Inc., Washington ACORN Political Action Committee, WARN, Working Families Association, Inc., Wal-Mart Workers Association, 385 Palmetto or 650 Political Action Committee.
06.12.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today reacted to efforts by Rep. Edward Markey (D-MA) to intimidate an energy company CEO who testified before a House Subcommittee this week. David Sokol, chairman of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., testified before the Energy and Environment Subcommittee about the negative impact of “cap and trade” legislation on Tuesday. Sokol’s testimony was devastating to the effort to pass the liberal Waxman/Markey “cap and tax” bill. According to The Hill newspaper, Rep. Markey wrote a letter “to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Chairman Jon Wellinghoff asking FERC to investigate the actions of a major energy company on the same day that the company’s CEO was set to testify before the energy panel on the dangers of a carbon cap and trade system.” “This is the clearest form of witness intimidation I have seen during my time in Congress,” King said. “Liberals are now resorting to witness intimidation tactics to pass their job-killing, ‘cap and tax’ plan. American families should be outraged with methods liberals are willing to use to pass their massive new energy tax. This is unacceptable, deplorable and the latest in a series of bullying tactics employed by the White House and liberals in this Pelosi Congress.” Background: GOP charges Markey with climate witness intimidation By Jared Allen Posted: 06/11/09 08:17 PM [ET] Energy panel Republicans are levying accusations of witness intimidation against Democratic Rep. Ed Markey (D-Mass.), one of the key authors of the contentious House climate change bill. Republicans have seized on a letter – a copy of which was obtained by The Hill – that Markey penned to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Chairman Jon Wellinghoff asking FERC to investigate the actions of a major energy company on the same day that the company’s CEO was set to testify before the energy panel on the dangers of a carbon cap and trade system According to the June 9 letter, Markey requested that Wellinghoff probe how thoroughly MidAmerican Energy Holdings – a $41 billion company in which Warren Buffet is a major investor – followed up on promises to invest as much as $15 billion in electric transmission expansion in the wake of the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act in 2005. In fact, Markey singled out MidAmerican Energy to also ask FERC to look into his concerns “that the repeal of PUHCA has also freed large multi-state public utility companies to diversify into other potentially risky business, to the potential detriment of utility investors and consumers.” “For example, MidAmerican Holdings has acquired the second largest real estate brokerage company in the country,” Markey wrote in his six-page letter. “What protections have been put in place to prevent utility shareholders, such as those of MidAmerican Holdings’ regulated utilities, to prevent them from rate increases, higher costs for borrowing, or other risks with might be associated with unsuccessful or failed diversifications?” http://thehill.com/leading-the-news/gop-charges-markey-with-climate-witness-intimidation-2009-06-11.html
06.10.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) and U.S. Representative Steve King (R-Iowa) introduced the Truth In Employment Act of 2009. The legislation would protect employees and employers from harassment and disruptive actions by union “salts” who threaten jobs and business success. “Small businesses should never be forced to hire undercover union organizers who seek to bully workers and harm companies,” said Senator DeMint. “We must pass the Truth in Employment Act or successful small businesses will remain vulnerable to union salting tactics that threaten jobs. These underhanded union tactics not only cost jobs, they also cost taxpayers, who foot the bill for frivolous investigations. It’s critical during these tough economic times that new jobs go to the millions of Americans desperate for work, not to undercover union organizers whose sole purpose is to harass and disrupt productivity. All workers have the right to join a union, but no union boss should have the right to intimidate workers who have chosen to work for successful non-union businesses.” “Employers need to know that their current or prospective employees are honestly seeking to work for the benefit of the company and not for the benefit of a labor union,” said Representative King. “The Truth in Employment Act protects the integrity of the American workplace by ending the harmful labor practice known as ‘salting.’ Eliminating this practice would protect American employers and employees. I look forward to working with Senator DeMint to pass this important bi-cameral legislation.” “Salting” occurs when union organizers seek employment with non-union businesses with the intent to unionize the company’s workforce. The union organizers’ objective is to apply intimidation tactics and economic pressure to force employees to form a union. Often, these actions include employee harassment, filing frivolous unfair labor practice claims, and disrupting daily operations. The disruptions caused by union “salts” jeopardize a company’s success and can lead to the business closing down and the loss of jobs. The Truth in Employment Act would amend the National Labor Relations Act (NRLA) to protect the employer from being required to hire any person who is seeking a job in order to promote interests unrelated to those of the employer. • Protects the right of employers to fire any employee who engages in a “salting campaign” instead of doing his or her job. • Continues to preserve the employee protections under the NLRA. • Protects and saves taxpayers and businesses from wasting time, money and resources on frivolous claims filed by union salts.
06.10.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The Heritage Foundation’s Center for Data Analysis released an economic study on Tuesday regarding the impact a cap-and-trade system would have on the agriculture community. The study maintains that cap-and-trade is “an energy tax in disguise” that will cause farm income to drop dramatically because of higher operating costs. It further argues that people living on fixed incomes and struggling in tough economic times can expect higher food prices as the result of this policy. Highlights of the study include: - Farm income (after paying all expenses) is expected to drop $8 billion in 2012, $25 billion in 2024, and over $50 billion in 2035. These are decreases of 28%, 60%, and 94%, respectively. - The average net income lost over the 2010-2035 timeline is $23 billion, which is a 57% decrease from the baseline. - Construction costs of farm buildings will go up from the baseline by 5.5% in 2025 and 10% by 2034. - By 2035, gasoline and diesel costs are expected to be 58% higher and electric rates 90% higher. Note: The study can be accessed at http://blog.heritage.org/2009/06/09/for-farmers-cap-and-trade-is-a-permanent-drought-season/ The House Agriculture Committee will hold a public hearing on the legislation Thursday afternoon. Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, made the following statement: “As all Americans tighten their belts and cut back on spending, it is irresponsible to slap a massive new energy tax on every American family, small business owner and farmer. Yet this is exactly what this ‘cap and tax’ bill will do. A recent study looked at a similar proposal and estimated that the impact of this plan would result in $3,128 in higher energy costs for every American household each year. “This bill is an attempted power grab by liberals from California and Massachusetts. In Iowa, we use coal to produce electricity and this legislation will punish coal producers and users. “American companies and farmers would be put at a disadvantage in the international market by this misguided proposal. American companies would be forced to comply with costly new regulations, while companies in countries without these rules, like India and China, would not. “On behalf of Iowa’s families, farmers and small businesses, I will oppose any ‘cap and trade’ bill introduced in this Congress.”
06.08.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, today made the following statement regarding a “cap and trade” proposal by liberals in Congress. The House Agriculture Committee will hold a public hearing on the legislation Thursday afternoon. “As all Americans tighten their belts and cut back on spending, it is irresponsible to slap a massive new energy tax on every American family, small business owner and farmer. Yet this is exactly what this ‘cap and tax’ bill will do. A recent study looked at a similar proposal and estimated that the impact of this plan would result in $3,128 in higher energy costs for every American household each year. “This bill is an attempted power grab by liberals from California and Massachusetts. In Iowa, we use coal to produce electricity and this legislation will punish coal producers and users. “American companies and farmers would be put at a disadvantage in the international market by this misguided proposal. American companies would be forced to comply with costly new regulations, while companies in countries without these rules, like India and China, would not. “On behalf of Iowa’s families, farmers and small businesses, I will oppose any ‘cap and trade’ bill introduced in this Congress.”
06.05.2009	As she continues to refuse to provide evidence supporting her claim that the CIA lied to her, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi travels to Iowa this weekend. Iowa Congressman Steve King has previously read into the Congressional record a privileged resolution calling for the suspension of Speaker Pelosi’s security clearance. If Pelosi continues to refuse to explain her accusations, King intends to introduce the resolution. King made the following comments today: “The relationship between Members of Congress and the intelligence community cannot be jeopardized because of the Speaker of the House leveling allegations of lying to Congress against our intelligence officials. “Speaker Pelosi has accused the CIA of committing a federal crime - lying to Congress. The CIA and other American defense and intelligence agencies cannot trust Nancy Pelosi with our national secrets, let alone our national security, until this matter is resolved. If true, there has been a serious violation of federal law. If false, American national security requires a new Speaker of the House. The severity of Speaker Pelosi’s accusations leaves no middle ground, and her security clearance should be suspended pending investigation. “If the Speaker is unable or unwilling to provide evidence to support her allegation, that she and Congress have been lied to by the CIA, the American people will be left with no choice but to conclude that she made this allegation for political purposes. Until her allegations are proven, she should not receive sensitive or classified information pertaining to the national security interests of the United States.”
06.01.2009	Congressman Steve King has been named a recipient of an ACU Ratings of Congress award for 2008 by the national organization, the American Conservative Union (ACU). The award is based on votes held during the second session of the 110th Congress. King scored a 96% on ACU’s scorecard. “I am grateful to receive this award from the American Conservative Union,” King said. “The principles this award is based upon are the foundations of our nation’s strength and prosperity.” The American Conservative Union is America’s oldest and largest grassroots conservative organization. For 38 years, its annual ratings have been widely regarded as the “gold standard,” the definitive conservative assessment of the federal legislative branch. “The American Conservative Union’s Ratings Award for 2008 was given for Congressman King’s support for conservative principles on a wide range of issues,” ACU Chairman David A. Keene said. “Congressman King’s lifetime rating of 97% over six years of service reflects someone who grassroots conservatives in Iowa and across the country look to for leadership.”
05.26.2009	Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today made the following statement on President Obama’s nomination of Sonia Sotomayor to the United States Supreme Court.“Supreme Court decisions have effectively amended our Constitution regularly and with impunity for decades. Nearly all of the social conflict in this country stems from the Court’s extra-constitutional interference with the voice of the people. The very last people in America who should be amending the Constitution are the Supreme Court justices. The Supreme Court is charged with interpreting the Constitution, but instead its recent activism has amended it.”“President Obama’s nomination of Sonia Sotomayor is another victory for the radical judicial activism movement. Judge Sotomayor will put her liberal policy preferences above neutral application of the law. This nomination is a setback for defenders of the Constitution and a victory for liberal special interest groups.”
05.21.2009	Tonight, during Special Order speeches, Congressman Steve King will read into the Congressional record a privileged resolution calling for the suspension of Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s security clearance. If Pelosi’s situation is not resolved by the time the House reconvenes after the Memorial Day district work period, King intends to introduce the resolution. King’s statement on the resolution follows:“The relationship between Members of Congress and the intelligence community cannot be jeopardized because of the Speaker of the House leveling allegations of lying to Congress against our intelligence officials.“Speaker Pelosi has accused the CIA of committing a federal crime - lying to Congress. The CIA and other American defense and intelligence agencies cannot trust Nancy Pelosi with our national secrets, let alone our national security, until this matter is resolved. If true, there has been a serious violation of federal law. If false, American national security requires a new Speaker of the House. The severity of Speaker Pelosi’s accusations leaves no middle ground, and her security clearance should be suspended pending investigation.“If the Speaker is unable or unwilling to provide evidence to support her allegation, that she and Congress have been lied to by the CIA, the American people will be left with no choice but to conclude that she made this allegation for political purposes. Until her allegations are proven, she should not receive sensitive or classified information pertaining to the national security interests of the United States.”
05.20.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — During a House Judiciary Committee hearing today, Congressman Steve King (R-IA) asked FBI Director Robert Mueller to investigate House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s accusation that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) lied to Congress. “The CIA and other American defense and intelligence agencies cannot trust Nancy Pelosi with our national secrets, let alone our national security, until this matter is resolved,” King said. “We need an investigation into the basis of Speaker Pelosi’s very severe accusations. If true, there has been a serious violation of federal law. If false, American national security requires a new Speaker of the House. The severity of Speaker Pelosi’s accusations leaves no middle ground.” More from Congressman King on this topic is available at http://abcnews.go.com/video/playerIndex?id=7635406
05.19.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following statement regarding House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s accusation that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) lied to her. “During the last session of Congress, Speaker Pelosi led Democrats in 44 different votes to unfund, underfund, undercut or undermine our troops in Iraq. Now she is accusing the CIA of lying. “Since taking the gavel, Speaker Pelosi has been actively undermining our national security. In the last Congress, Pelosi marshaled her caucus to undermine the work our troops are doing in Iraq. Our troops have since achieved a definable victory in spite of her actions. Now she has accused the CIA of committing a federal crime - lying to Congress. How can the CIA or any American defense or intelligence agency ever trust Nancy Pelosi with our national secrets, let alone our national security, again? “Pelosi’s claims warrant immediate action. The severity of Speaker Pelosi’s accusations leave no middle ground. The Speaker must immediately release to the American people the basis of her very severe accusations and call for the arrest and prosecution of the CIA officers, or our national security requires a new Speaker of the House.”
05.14.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following statement in response to comments made by Senator Tom Harkin in support of moving Guantanamo Bay prison detainees to American soil. Congressman King visited the Guantanamo Bay facility in March.“I disagree with Senator Harkin. There is no rational or legal reason to bring the terrorists at Guantanamo Bay to American soil. The bottom line really is that if these terrorists are released, innocent people will die and some of them likely will be Americans.” From the Des Moines Register’s website: "I don't know what the big deal is about housing these prisoners," Harkin said during a conference call with reporters. "I mean, if you keep them under lock and key, what's the big problem? I don't understand that." Harkin said detainees now in the military detention center on the U.S. Naval base in Cuba could be put in military prisons. Harkin noted that the military base at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, has a maximum-security prison. "If I'm not mistaken, we have military facilities in the United States that could house these prisoners," Harkin added. "We've got plenty of places here in this country for them." Read the full article at http://www.desmoinesregister.com/article/20090514/NEWS/90514031
05.12.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today announced that Ethan Carlson, a senior at Spirit Lake High School, is this year’s winner of the annual Fifth District Congressional Art contest. This contest is an annual, nationwide art contest for all high school students, and a winner is chosen from each Congressional district. Multiple young artists submitted outstanding pieces for consideration, and Carlson’s work was selected by Iowa art professionals as the top submission in the 2009 Fifth District competition. Carlson’s winning piece of artwork – entitled “Blue Eyed Metaphor” - will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year along with the other winning entries from Congressional districts across the country. Carlson will be flown to Washington, D.C. to attend a congressional reception on June 24, 2009, courtesy of Southwest Airlines. “We have an outstanding group of art teachers and art professionals in western Iowa,” King said. “We also are blessed with many outstanding young artists, including several who participated in this year’s competition. I want to thank all the contestants who participated this year, and congratulate Ethan for winning this year’s competition. All of western Iowa commends him for his artistic talents.” Carlson is the son of Tom Carlson of Humboldt and Lauri Carlson of Spirit Lake.
05.12.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement regarding President Obama’s nomination of Harold Koh to serve as Legal Advisor to the State Department: “Harold Koh believes that Americans should be subject to the views of foreign and international bureaucrats. He supports customary international law, a direct assault on the sovereignty of the United States. “Mr. Koh opposes America’s distinctive rights culture, and believes the First Amendment gives too much freedom to speech and religion. We do not want an anti-free speech radical advising our State Department. “The State Department’s legal advisor needs to place America and the U.S. Constitution above foreign courts and globalism. Mr. Koh will do the opposite.” More information: http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2009/03/31/obamas-appointment-koh-state-department-legal-adviser-stirs-controversy/
05.07.2009	Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, today introduced H.R. 2296, the “Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives Reform and Firearms Modernization Act of 2009.” King’s legislation would roll back unnecessary restrictions and correct errors in federal firearms laws and regulations. The bi-partisan bill is a vital step to modernize and improve Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives operations. The legislation completely rewrites the system of administrative penalties for licensed dealers, manufacturers and importers of firearms. Introduced as H.R. 4900 during the 110th Congress, the bill gathered 224 bi-partisan co-sponsors, enough votes to pass the House, yet House Speaker Nancy Pelosi refused to bring it up for a floor vote. King made the following statement on the legislation:“These reforms will allow the BATFE to perform focused and reasonable approaches to many of the civil enforcement issues it deals with, while encouraging responsible gun ownership,” King said. “Congress should protect the rights of law-abiding gun owners. I am a stalwart defender of our Second Amendment freedoms. They are guaranteed to us by the Constitution, and I oppose any attempt to water down the principles embodied in the Second Amendment.” Today, for most violations, BATFE can only give a federal firearms license (FFL) holder a warning, or totally revoke his license. This bill would allow fines or license suspensions for less serious violations, while still allowing license revocation for the kind of serious violations that would block an investigation or put guns in the hands of criminals. This prevents the all-too-common situations where BATFE has punished licensees for insignificant technical violation—such as improper use of abbreviations, or filing records in the wrong order. Among its other provisions, H.R. 2296: • Clarifies the standard for “willful” violations—allowing penalties for intentional, purposeful violations of the law, but not for simple paperwork mistakes. • Improves the process for imposing penalties • Allows a grace period for people taking over an existing firearms business to correct problems in the business’s records
05.04.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, has been tapped by House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) to serve on the “Rural America Solutions Group,” a new task force created to address issues facing rural America. President Obama previously promised he would hold a summit focused on rural issues during his first 100 days in office but has yet to do so. King and House Members have recently called for the White House to establish an Office of Rural Policy. The Rural America Solutions Group’s goal is to find new ways to create jobs and other opportunities for rural America. “Congress needs to focus on issues that will help our rural communities grow,” King said. “I meet regularly with farmers and small business owners who are concerned with the tax and regulatory burdens on their businesses, attracting and retaining quality employees, access to affordable and quality healthcare and improving our transportation infrastructure. I will work to address these issues to find the best ways to promote our rural communities and attract new residents.” Members of the GOP Rural Solutions Group include: · Rep. Frank Lucas (R-OK) – Co-Chair · Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA) – Co-Chair · Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO) – Co-Chair · Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) · Rep. Henry Brown (R-SC) · Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) · Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) · Rep. Tom Latham (R-IA) · Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) · Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) · Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA) · Rep. Adam Putnam (R-FL) · Rep. George Radonovich (R-CA) · Rep. Phil Roe (R-TN) · Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE)
05.01.2009	Congressman Steve King, the highest ranking Republican on the House Immigration Subcommittee, today made the following statement regarding May Day rallies planned in various parts of the United States.“Today, amnesty activists across the country will go to the streets to protest the Rule of Law. These activists will press President Obama and Congress to grant amnesty to 12-20 million illegal aliens, halt immigration raids, eliminate deportations, suspend border fence construction and stop enforcing American immigration laws. “Some protesters are holding a ‘know your rights’ rally. This should be the day Americans demand their rights of citizenship and demand the Administration enforces the law. Ninety percent of the illegal drugs abused in America comes across our southern border. At least one link in every drug smuggling chain in our country is an illegal alien. Americans are dying every day at the hands of illegals – all of which is preventable if we just enforce existing law. Border violence has long ago spilled over into the U.S. “Some Members of Congress are calling for the immediate closing of the border with Mexico to prevent the flu virus from spreading. Ironically, if we did that, the only traffic between Mexico and the United States would be illegal drugs and illegal people, about 11,000 a night – every night.“Enforcing our immigration laws would also solve about 70% of the unemployment problem in America. American workers need this Administration to protect their jobs from illegal workers, and the American people want a secure border, immigration enforcement and no amnesty for law breakers.”
04.30.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, the highest ranking Republican on the House Immigration Subcommittee, today made the following statement in response to President Obama’s comments about comprehensive immigration reform during last night’s news conference (transcript below) and new worksite enforcement guidelines released today by the Obama Administration. More information about the guidelines is available at http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20090430/ap_on_go_ca_st_pe/us_immigration_enforcement. “President Obama continues to send an erratic and inconsistent message to the American people about enforcing our immigration laws. Less than 24 hours after the President re-affirmed his support for comprehensive amnesty, today Secretary Janet Napolitano released new guidelines for worksite enforcement. However, there is no mention of deportation in these guidelines. If the Obama Administration refuses to place immigration law breakers back into the condition they were in before they broke the law, we can have no effective immigration law enforcement whatsoever. “Mr. President, are you or are you not committed to enforcing all immigration laws? “The President’s amnesty plan will sacrifice the Rule of Law, and in our current economic crisis, American workers are depending on this Administration to protect their jobs from those in America illegally. President Obama must do more than just talk about enforcing immigration laws.” Partial Transcript from President Obama’s 4/29/09 News Conference: QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, when you met with the Hispanic Caucus a few weeks ago, reports came out that the White House was planning to have a forum to talk about immigration and bring it to the forefront. Going forward, my question is, what is your strategy to try to have immigration reform? And are you still on the same timetable to have it accomplished in the first year of your presidency? And, also, I'd like to know if you're going to reach out to Senator John McCain , who is Republican and in the past has favored immigration reform? OBAMA: Well, we reach out to -- to Senator McCain on a whole host of issues. He has been a leader on immigration reform. I think he has had the right position on immigration reform. And I would love to partner with him and others on what is going to be a critical issue. We've also worked with Senator McCain on what I think is a terrific piece of legislation that he and Carl Levin have put together around procurement reform. We want that moved, and we're going to be working hard with them to get that accomplished. What I told the Congressional Hispanic Caucus is exactly what I said the very next day in a town hall meeting and what I will continue to say publicly, and that is we want to move this process. We can't continue with a broken immigration system. It's not good for anybody. It's not good for American workers. It's dangerous for Mexican would-be workers who are trying to cross a dangerous border. OBAMA: It is -- it is putting a strain on border communities, who oftentimes have to deal with a host of undocumented workers. And it keeps those undocumented workers in the shadows, which means they can be exploited at the same time as they're depressing U.S. wages. So, what I hope to happen is that we're able to convene a working group, working with key legislators like Luis Gutierrez and Nydia Velazquez and others to start looking at a framework of how this legislation might be shaped. In the meantime, what we're trying to do is take some core -- some key administrative steps to move the process along to lay the groundwork for legislation. Because the American people need some confidence that if we actually put a package together, we can execute. So Janet Napolitano , who has great knowledge of this because of having been a border governor, she's already in the process of reviewing and figuring out how can we strengthen our border security in a much more significant way than we're doing. If the American people don't feel like you can secure the borders, then it's hard to strike a deal that would get people out of the shadows and on a pathway to citizenship who are already here, because the attitude of the average American is going to be, well, you're just going to have hundreds of thousands of more coming in each year. On the other hand, showing that there is a more thoughtful approach than just raids of a handful of workers as opposed to, for example, taking seriously the violation of companies that sometimes are actively recruiting these workers to come in. That's again something we can start doing administratively. So what we want to do is to show that we are competent and getting results around immigration, even on the structures that we already have in place, the laws that we already have in place, so that we're building confidence among the American people that we can actually follow through on whatever legislative approach emerges. OK? QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) OBAMA: I see the process moving this first year. And I'm going to be moving it as quickly as I can. I've been accused of doing too much. We are moving full steam ahead on all fronts. Ultimately, I don't have control of the legislative calendar, and so we're going to work with legislative leaders to see what we can do.
04.28.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King made the following statement today about H.R. 1913, liberal “Hate Crimes” legislation. The legislation will be considered in the House on Wednesday. This evening, for one hour, Congressman King will host a Special Order on the House floor to speak against the legislation. “Liberals in Congress want to create new laws to protect classes of people that have never been defined or identified as a class before. This unconstitutional bill aims to protect new classes of people based on ‘gender identity’ and ‘sexual orientation.’ These are classifications of people that are based on their inner feelings – their thoughts. Punishing ‘thought crimes’ will infringe on freedom of speech and religious expression, rights endowed to all Americans in the Constitution. “Under this legislation, justice will no longer be equal. Instead, justice will depend on the race, sex, sexual orientation or protected status of the victim, setting up different penalties for the same crime. I support continuing the American tradition of equal justice under the law, and I oppose this unconstitutional ‘thought crimes’ bill.” Background: H.R. 1913 would make “gender,” “sexual orientation” and “gender identity” federally protected classes under the U.S. Criminal Code. It would segregate people based on sexual orientation, gender identity, and other vague terms. Such terms are not defined in the bill. However, they are very liberally defined by the medical and psychiatric community. “Hate crimes” legislation would afford preferential treatment to a special class of people. It would, in fact, require that only some people be treated equal under law. This legislation could restrict free speech and eventually lead to criminal prosecution of religious leaders or members of religious groups based on their speech or other protected activities. The bill could also lead to an incitement to violence towards religious leaders. A 2007 F.B.I. Hate Crime Statistics report documented 1,477 offenses motivated by religious bias. In addition, H.R. 1913 provides funding and grants to any state and local entity to investigate and litigate instances of hate crimes. This means that federal funding could be used to implement state hate crime laws, many of which are more restrictive than the federal hate crimes bill and limit First Amendment rights.
04.27.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King made the following statement today as Iowa county recorders begin processing same-sex marriage applications. “Iowa law says that marriage is between one man and one woman, yet activist judges molded Iowa’s Constitution to achieve their personal political ends. Ultimately, the people of Iowa should decide whether or not Iowa should allow same-sex marriage, not activist judges handing down extra-constitutional rulings. “I believe the majority of Iowans are committed to marriage between one man and one woman, one of the essential building blocks of civilization. I will continue to work with the Iowa legislature to pass a Marriage Amendment to the Iowa Constitution, clarifying that marriage is between one man and one woman. Along with a constitutional amendment, the legislature must also enact marriage license residency requirements so that Iowa does not become the same-sex marriage Mecca for America.”
04.17.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement about a House resolution he introduced, the Cut the Unnecessary Tab Act (CUT Act). The CUT Act, H.Res. 323, will allow any member of Congress to offer an amendment to cut wasteful federal spending through a recorded vote. Presently, when federal spending bills are signed into law, Congress has no formal mechanism to review the budget and trim wasteful spending. The CUT Act will allow every single unobligated spending item to be up for reconsideration four times a year. “In the real world, businesses and families eliminate unnecessary spending when they spend beyond their means. Both continually revisit their spending to ensure their expenses are responsible and necessary. On Capitol Hill, this is a foreign concept, and we must change this broken process. “The CUT Act will change the way the federal government spends taxpayer dollars. It will allow any Member of Congress to offer an amendment to cut wasteful federal spending and require a recorded vote so every Member is held accountable. “At the rate Congress is going right now, our grandchildren will never climb the mountain of debt America is accumulating. The CUT Act will ensure Congress finally starts balancing the budget and stops wasting taxpayer dollars.” Background: The CUT Act would amend House rules to require that a rescissions bill be brought to the House floor at the beginning of every fiscal quarter. The rescissions bill would be brought up under an open rule, allowing any Member the opportunity to cut and cancel unnecessary, wasteful and bloated government spending. Under the CUT Act’s spending reduction process, at the beginning of every federal fiscal quarter, every single unobligated spending item would be up for reconsideration. Because the CUT Act requires an open rule procedure allowing any Member of Congress to offer an amendment to cut wasteful federal spending through a recorded vote, the CUT Act brings real accountability into the federal spending process. In addition to requiring the consideration of quarterly rescissions bills, the CUT Act would also make the rescissions process open to the public. The Act stipulates that rescissions bills and their amendments must be posted in an easily searchable format on the Internet. This important tool will allow Americans to contact their Members of Congress and make their views known before votes.
04.17.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement regarding the Obama Administration’s announcement that it is delaying the implementation date for a rule requiring federal contractors to use E-Verify. E-Verify is an online system that employers can use to ensure their employees, after hire, are legally authorized to work. E-Verify is free and voluntary, and the E-Verify system is the best way to make certain new hires are legal and have valid Social Security numbers. Today’s announcement further delays implementation until June 30. Previously the rule was scheduled to take effect on February 20, but in January the rule was delayed until May 21. “In these tough economic times, no American jobs should go to illegal immigrants,” King said. “E-Verify is a quick and easy system that shuts off the illegal worker jobs magnet and provides employers with a way to verify that their employees are legal to work. Americans cannot afford to lose more jobs to illegal workers. The American people want this Administration to enforce existing immigration laws and protect American workers by using the E-Verify system.” A 2008 government study of E-Verify revealed that in 96.1 percent of cases, an employee's work authorization was confirmed immediately. (San Francisco Chronicle) Rep. King is the highest ranking Republican on the House Immigration Subcommittee.
04.15.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement on Tax Day, the date taxes are due to the Internal Revenue Service. King will speak at a national FairTax rally this evening in Columbia, South Carolina. King will be joined by former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee and radio host Neal Boortz. “April 15th is our annual day of reckoning with the Internal Revenue Service and the day the government stakes its claim on our hard-earned money. Our current tax system is simply broken. “The worst part of our tax system is the way the income tax penalizes our work. That’s backwards. Why would government want to tax us for the work we do – taxing us more when we work harder and smarter and earn more money? Instead, the tax should be on consumption, not productivity, just like the FairTax –a national sales tax that un-taxes productivity. “Our current income tax system is a relic of the past and we should toss it into dustbin of history. The FairTax will unleash the power of America’s worker and allow us to grow out of the current economic downturn. “By shifting taxation from productive behavior to consumption, the FairTax allows Americans to take home their entire paycheck and eliminates the income tax and IRS. This will have a stimulative effect on our economy. Not only will Americans have more money to spend, they will have more money to save and invest—which will give American businesses more access to capital. This, in turn, will allow greater investment in research and development and result in the creation of new jobs. “I hope you join me in firing the IRS, scrapping the income tax code and establishing the FairTax. Once we join together to get that done, we can let April 15th fade into history as just another day.” 0
04.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King today made the following statement about President Obama’s plan to push comprehensive immigration reform, including amnesty, in 2009. “The Obama Administration has shut down worksite enforcement, effectively suspending law enforcement on employers who are hiring illegals. They have shifted the focus from intercepting illegal drugs and people coming from Mexico to intercepting legal U.S. guns on their way to Mexico. Now the Obama Administration has come out in support of amnesty for law breakers. “Obama is taking the United States of America into an abrupt, headlong lurch away from the foundations that made us a great nation. “The American people want this Administration to enforce existing immigration laws. Regardless of the guise under which it will be presented to the public, President Obama’s amnesty plan is a dangerous path for our nation that will sacrifice the Rule of Law. “In our current economic crisis, Americans cannot afford to lose more jobs to illegal workers. With more than 12 million illegal aliens living in the United States and over 7.7 million of those illegal aliens working in the United States, America cannot afford to grant amnesty to those that have broken the Rule of Law. American workers are depending on President Obama to protect their jobs from those in America illegally.” From today’s New York Times: While acknowledging that the recession makes the political battle more difficult, President Barack Obama plans to begin addressing America's immigration system this year, including looking for a path for illegal immigrants to become legal, a senior administration official said Wednesday. Obama will frame the new effort — likely to rouse passions on all sides of the highly divisive issue — as "policy reform that controls immigration and makes it an orderly system," said the official, Cecilia Munoz, deputy assistant to the president and director of intergovernmental affairs in the White House.
04.08.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced he is hosting multiple town hall meetings on Monday, April 13, and Tuesday, April 14. The events are open to the public. Congressman King will deliver opening remarks and take questions. The full schedule is below.“I look forward to the opportunity to hear from concerned citizens and discuss current issues,” King said. “Town hall meetings better equip me to represent western Iowans in Congress and give our region a strong voice on Capitol Hill.”Ida County Town Hall Date: Monday, April 13, 2009 Event: King Hosting Town Hall Meeting Location: Ida Grove Recreation Center, 311 Barnes St, Ida Grove Time: 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.Sac County Town Hall Date: Monday, April 13, 2009 Event: King Hosting Town Hall Meeting Location: Iowa State Bank, 500 Audubon Street, Sac City Time: 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.Mills County Town Hall Date: Tuesday, April 14 Event: King Hosting Town Hall Meeting Location: Glenwood Library Annex, 107 N. Vine, Glenwood Time: 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.Pottawattamie County Town Hall Date: Tuesday, April 14 Event: King Hosting Town Hall Meeting Location: Children’s Square USA, 302 N 7th St, Council Bluffs Time: 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.Shelby County Town Hall Date: Tuesday, April 14 Event: King Hosting Town Hall Meeting Location: Harlan Community Library, 718 Court Street, Harlan Time: 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m.
04.07.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced he is hosting multiple town hall meetings on Wednesday, April 8, and Thursday, April 9. The events are open to the public. Congressman King will deliver opening remarks and take questions. The full schedule is below. “I look forward to the opportunity to hear from concerned citizens and discuss current issues,” King said. “Town hall meetings better equip me to represent western Iowans in Congress and give our region a strong voice on Capitol Hill.” Carroll County Town Hall Date: Wednesday, April 8, 2009 Event: King Hosting Town Hall Meeting Location: Carroll Chamber - Harold Bierl Room, 407 West 5th Street, Carroll Time: 8 a.m. – 9 a.m. Adair County Town Hall Date: Wednesday, April 8, 2009 Event: King Hosting Town Hall Meeting Location: Greenfield City Hall - Library Conference Room, 202 South 1st Street, Greenfield Time: 11 a.m. – noon Clark County Town Hall Date: Wednesday, April 8, 2009 Event: King Hosting Town Hall Meeting Location: Southern Hills Winery, 1400 West Clay Street, Osceola Time: 4 p.m. – 5 p.m. Woodbury County Town Hall Date: Thursday, April 9, 2009 Event: King Hosting Town Hall Meeting Location: Siouxland Center for Active Generations, 313 Cook Street, Sioux City Time: 10 a.m. – 11 a.m. O’Brien County Town Hall Date: Thursday, April 9, 2009 Event: King Hosting Town Hall Meeting Location: O’Brien County Courthouse, 155 South Hayes Avenue, Primghar Time: 12:45 p.m. – 1:45 p.m. Dickinson County Town Hall Date: Thursday, April 9, 2009 Event: King Hosting Town Hall Meeting Location: Spirit Lake Library, 702 16th Street, Spirit Lake Time: 4 p.m. – 5 p.m.
04.03.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King made the following statement regarding today’s decision by the Iowa Supreme Court. “This is an unconstitutional ruling and another example of activist judges molding the Constitution to achieve their personal political ends. Iowa law says that marriage is between one man and one woman. If judges believe the Iowa legislature should grant same sex marriage, they should resign from their positions and run for office, not legislate from the bench. “Now it is the Iowa legislature’s responsibility to pass the Marriage Amendment to the Iowa Constitution, clarifying that marriage is between one man and one woman, to give the power that the Supreme Court has arrogated to itself back to the people of Iowa. Along with a constitutional amendment, the legislature must also enact marriage license residency requirements so that Iowa does not become the gay marriage Mecca due to the Supreme Court’s latest experiment in social engineering.”
04.02.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following statement in opposition to the Democrats’ massive, big-spending budget plan. The House will vote on the plan Thursday evening.“We need a leaner federal government that taxes less, spends less and allows average, hard-working and smart-working Americans the opportunity to get ahead and prosper. The Democrat budget proposal does the exact opposite: it spends too much, taxes too much and borrows too much.“The Democrat budget increases government spending to a level not seen since World War II, and over five years, this budget will increase the federal debt to $17.1 trillion. Democrats’ spending plans would double the federal debt in five years and triple it in ten.“This spend-a-thon is just the latest in what has become an ongoing fiscal train wreck in Washington. Bigger government, more wasteful Washington spending, new bailouts and tax increases punish our economy’s engine.“In the real world, businesses and families eliminate unnecessary spending when they spend beyond their means. Both continually revisit their spending to ensure their expenses are responsible and necessary. On Capitol Hill, this remains a foreign concept, and our grandchildren may never climb the mountain of debt America is accumulating”Background: - Congressman King opposed last year’s $700 billion bailout for Wall Street, and in 2009, he opposed a $1.1 trillion “stimulus” plan and a $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill.
04.01.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King, the highest ranking Republican on the House Immigration Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano’s trip to the United States/Mexico border. “The Secretary appears to have decided she can transfer resources away from worksite enforcement and use the Department of Homeland Security’s resources to do what Mexico should be doing. The Mexican border patrol should be intercepting legal American guns that illegally enter Mexico and stopping illegal drug cash from entering Mexico, not the Department of Homeland Security. If the Mexican government wants help from the United States, it should demonstrate its commitment to prohibiting illegal drugs and illegal immigrants from entering America. The situation in Mexico is serious, and a porous and unprotected border is the primary reason the violence in Mexico is spilling onto American soil. “America needs an immigration policy that returns jobs back to American workers by shutting off the job magnet for illegal workers and building a barrier along the border to force all traffic through the legal ports of entry. If Secretary Napolitano is serious about reducing border violence, she will commit to completing the border fence and prosecuting both American employers and illegal immigrants who break U.S. law.”
04.01.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Steve King made the following statement encouraging Americans who value life to make their voices heard and call on President Obama to withdraw his nomination of Dawn Johnsen to head the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel. King and 62 of his House colleagues sent a bi-partisan letter to President Obama last week urging him to withdraw Johnsen’s nomination. The letter is pasted below. "When President Obama rescinded the Mexico City Policy, he stated, ‘No matter what our views, we are united in our determination to prevent unintended pregnancies, reduce the need for abortion and support women and families in the choices they make. To accomplish these goals, we must work to find common ground.’ “Nominating Dawn Johnsen to head the Office of Legal Counsel is an insult to pro-life Americans who are willing to work with President Obama to find common ground. Her personal pro-abortion agenda, previous disparaging comments about pro-life Americans and past criticism of Congress' ban on partial-birth abortion are evidence that she is not interested in finding common ground with those who oppose her narrow philosophy. Ms. Johnsen has condemned virtually every type of regulation of abortion conceived by a legislature. “She is so against an unborn child’s right-to-live that she has labeled mothers-to-be ‘fetal containers.’ “I encourage all Americans who value life to contact the White House and ask President Obama to nominate an OLC chief who will not detract from his stated goal of reducing abortions and finding common ground on life issues.” Letter to President Obama: March 24, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, After you rescinded the Mexico City Policy, you stated, “No matter what our views, we are united in our determination to prevent unintended pregnancies, reduce the need for abortion and support women and families in the choices they make. To accomplish these goals, we must work to find common ground.” In an effort to find common ground, we have serious concerns about your decision to nominate Dawn Johnsen to head the Office of Legal Counsel. We are concerned about her personal, pro-abortion agenda and how it will negatively impact America ’s future. In the past, you have promised to hold judicial nominees to a standard—a standard that respects the Constitution and resists the temptation to substitute personal ideology for legal reasoning. While the Office of Legal Counsel is not a judicial nomination, it will still provide you, the Executive Branch, and the U.S. Department of Justice with legal counsel, and it should be held to the same standard. Ms. Johnsen does not meet this standard. As you may know, Ms. Johnsen has been a strong advocate for abortion. In the Supreme Court amicus brief that she authored, Ms. Johnsen wrote, “While a woman might choose to bear children gladly and voluntarily, statutes that curtail her abortion choice are disturbingly suggestive of involuntary servitude, prohibited by the Thirteenth Amendment, in that forced pregnancy requires a woman to provide continuous physical service to the fetus in order to further the state’s asserted interest.” Ms. Johnsen also included, “the woman is constantly aware for nine months that her body is not wholly her own: the state has conscripted her body for its own ends. Thus, the abortion restrictions ‘reduce pregnant women to no more than fetal containers.’” In 2006, Ms. Johnsen stridently attacked the Supreme Court’s decision in Gonzales v. Carhart upholding Congress' ban on partial-birth abortion, a procedure the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan described as "too close to infanticide." She asserted that because of the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the partial-birth ban, “every first-year law student’s constitutional law casebook” now contains “gruesome descriptions designed to make abortion sound like infanticide.” Ms. Johnsen’s position has condemned virtually every type of regulation of abortion conceived by a legislature, no matter how mild the regulation or how shocking the practice regulated, as unacceptable. As we search for “common ground,” we believe it is important to recognize that Ms. Johnsen has no interest in reducing the number of abortions, stating, “Progressives must not portray all abortions as tragedies. . . Senator Hillary Clinton, in a 2005 speech commendable for setting forth a pro-choice, pro-prevention, pro-family agenda, took the aspiration a step in the wrong direction when she called for policy changes so that abortion ‘does not ever have to be exercised or only in very rare circumstances.’” It is evident that Ms. Johnsen does not meet the standard you embraced on the campaign trail nor does she promote the “common ground” that you promised the American people after rescinding the Mexico City Policy. Instead, this divisive nominee's intemperate positions and her indifference towards those who hold contrary views do not reflect the sober judgment required to lead the Office of Legal Counsel. We respectfully request that you withdraw your nomination of Ms. Dawn Johnsen. The Office of Legal Counsel needs a leader who will place the rule of law above political philosophy or personal agenda. Thank you for your time and consideration of our request. Sincerely,
03.26.2009	
03.25.2009	Congressman Steve King and 62 of his House colleagues today sent a bi-partisan letter to President Obama urging him to withdraw his nomination of Dawn Johnsen to head the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel. The letter is pasted below. King made the following statement about Johnsen’s nomination.“When President Obama rescinded the Mexico City Policy, he stated, ‘No matter what our views, we are united in our determination to prevent unintended pregnancies, reduce the need for abortion and support women and families in the choices they make. To accomplish these goals, we must work to find common ground.’“Nominating Dawn Johnsen to head the Office of Legal Counsel is a serious step away from finding common ground with pro-life Americans. Her personal pro-abortion agenda, previous disparaging comments about pro-life Americans and past criticism of Congress' ban on partial-birth abortion are evidence that she is not interested in finding common ground with those who oppose her narrow philosophy. Ms. Johnsen has condemned virtually every type of regulation of abortion conceived by a legislature.“She is so against an unborn child’s right-to-live that she has labeled mothers-to-be ‘fetal containers.’“The Office of Legal Counsel needs a leader who will place the rule of law above political philosophy or personal agenda. Ms. Johnsen is not that leader, and her nomination will detract from the President’s stated goal of reducing abortions and finding common ground on life issues.” Letter to President Obama: March 24, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, After you rescinded the Mexico City Policy, you stated, “No matter what our views, we are united in our determination to prevent unintended pregnancies, reduce the need for abortion and support women and families in the choices they make. To accomplish these goals, we must work to find common ground.” In an effort to find common ground, we have serious concerns about your decision to nominate Dawn Johnsen to head the Office of Legal Counsel. We are concerned about her personal, pro-abortion agenda and how it will negatively impact America’s future. In the past, you have promised to hold judicial nominees to a standard—a standard that respects the Constitution and resists the temptation to substitute personal ideology for legal reasoning. While the Office of Legal Counsel is not a judicial nomination, it will still provide you, the Executive Branch, and the U.S. Department of Justice with legal counsel, and it should be held to the same standard. Ms. Johnsen does not meet this standard. As you may know, Ms. Johnsen has been a strong advocate for abortion. In the Supreme Court amicus brief that she authored, Ms. Johnsen wrote, “While a woman might choose to bear children gladly and voluntarily, statutes that curtail her abortion choice are disturbingly suggestive of involuntary servitude, prohibited by the Thirteenth Amendment, in that forced pregnancy requires a woman to provide continuous physical service to the fetus in order to further the state’s asserted interest.” Ms. Johnsen also included, “the woman is constantly aware for nine months that her body is not wholly her own: the state has conscripted her body for its own ends. Thus, the abortion restrictions ‘reduce pregnant women to no more than fetal containers.’” In 2006, Ms. Johnsen stridently attacked the Supreme Court’s decision in Gonzales v. Carhart upholding Congress' ban on partial-birth abortion, a procedure the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan described as "too close to infanticide." She asserted that because of the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the partial-birth ban, “every first-year law student’s constitutional law casebook” now contains “gruesome descriptions designed to make abortion sound like infanticide.” Ms. Johnsen’s position has condemned virtually every type of regulation of abortion conceived by a legislature, no matter how mild the regulation or how shocking the practice regulated, as unacceptable. As we search for “common ground,” we believe it is important to recognize that Ms. Johnsen has no interest in reducing the number of abortions, stating, “Progressives must not portray all abortions as tragedies. . . Senator Hillary Clinton, in a 2005 speech commendable for setting forth a pro-choice, pro-prevention, pro-family agenda, took the aspiration a step in the wrong direction when she called for policy changes so that abortion ‘does not ever have to be exercised or only in very rare circumstances.’” It is evident that Ms. Johnsen does not meet the standard you embraced on the campaign trail nor does she promote the “common ground” that you promised the American people after rescinding the Mexico City Policy. Instead, this divisive nominee's intemperate positions and her indifference towards those who hold contrary views do not reflect the sober judgment required to lead the Office of Legal Counsel. We respectfully request that you withdraw your nomination of Ms. Dawn Johnsen. The Office of Legal Counsel needs a leader who will place the rule of law above political philosophy or personal agenda. Thank you for your time and consideration of our request. Sincerely,
03.20.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following statement today calling for President Barack Obama and Senator Chris Dodd to return campaign contributions received from AIG. Obama and Dodd rank #1 and #2 on the list of 2008 AIG campaign donation recipients, and Senator Dodd is the all-time leader in AIG contributions with $281,038.“Barber Conable said that ‘Hell hath no fury like a vested interest masquerading as a moral authority.’ This week on Capitol Hill we have seen what happens when you throw billions and trillions of dollars out there and let the government get involved in running private companies.“The American people are outraged that either President Obama or Senator Dodd removed a provision from the stimulus bill that would have kept AIG employees from receiving huge bonuses. It is still unclear whether the Dodd Amendment originated from the White House or Senator Dodd. “To make up for their mistakes, yesterday Senator Dodd, President Obama and liberals in Congress passed a political bailout for themselves – unconstitutional legislation will regulate and tax the pay of thousands of private citizens. Instead of political bailouts, President Obama and Senator Dodd should put their money where their rhetoric is. Obama and Dodd should immediately return all campaign contributions they have received from AIG.”NOTE: Obama received $104,332 from AIG during the 2008 election cycle, and Dodd received $103,900. Congressman King has previously voted against the bailout, stimulus and omnibus spending bills passed by Congress.
03.19.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following statement calling on President Obama to withdraw his nomination of Dawn Johnsen to head the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel. The Senate Judiciary Committee will vote on Johnsen’s nomination today.“When President Obama rescinded the Mexico City Policy, he stated, ‘No matter what our views, we are united in our determination to prevent unintended pregnancies, reduce the need for abortion and support women and families in the choices they make. To accomplish these goals, we must work to find common ground.’“Nominating Dawn Johnsen to head the Office of Legal Counsel is a serious step away from finding common ground with pro-life Americans. Her personal pro-abortion agenda, previous disparaging comments about pro-life Americans and past criticism of Congress' ban on partial-birth abortion are evidence that she is not interested in finding common ground with those who oppose her narrow philosophy. Ms. Johnsen has condemned virtually every type of regulation of abortion conceived by a legislature.“She is so against an unborn child’s right-to-live that she has labeled mothers-to-be ‘fetal containers.’“The Office of Legal Counsel needs a leader who will place the rule of law above political philosophy or personal agenda. Ms. Johnsen is not that leader, and her nomination will detract from the President’s stated goal of reducing abortions and finding common ground on life issues.”
03.19.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following statement regarding today’s vote to reclaim bonuses received by AIG employees. The bill imposes a retroactive 90% tax for bonuses received after December 31, 2008 by an employee of any company that has received more than $5 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Language protecting these bonuses in the so-called stimulus package was written entirely by liberal Congressional leadership and signed by President Barack Obama.“Today’s vote is another round in a seemingly endless series of bailouts - this time an unconstitutional political bailout for liberals in Congress and the White House. Weeks ago, behind closed doors, Senator Chris Dodd and the Obama Administration eliminated provisions that would have prevented AIG employees from receiving these bonuses. The American people are rightfully outraged, and now Senator Dodd, President Obama, Treasury Secretary Geithner and other liberals need a political bailout.“What did they expect was going to happen when they put taxpayers in this position? This kind of thing is bound to happen when you throw billions and trillions of dollars out there and let the government get involved in running private companies.“Because this bill is not limited to AIG bonuses, it will regulate the pay of thousands of private citizens, a dangerous and unconstitutional disruption of America’s free-market system.“This is nothing more than a cover-up for liberal mistakes.” Congressman King has previously voted against the bailout, stimulus and omnibus spending bills passed by Congress.
03.19.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following statement regarding today’s vote to reclaim bonuses received by AIG employees. The bill imposes a retroactive 90% tax for bonuses received after December 31, 2008 by an employee of any company that has received more than $5 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Language protecting these bonuses in the so-called stimulus package was written entirely by liberal Congressional leadership and signed by President Barack Obama.“Today’s vote is another round in a seemingly endless series of bailouts - this time an unconstitutional political bailout for liberals in Congress and the White House. Weeks ago, behind closed doors, Senator Chris Dodd and the Obama Administration eliminated provisions that would have prevented AIG employees from receiving these bonuses. The American people are rightfully outraged, and now Senator Dodd, President Obama, Treasury Secretary Geithner and other liberals need a political bailout.“What did they expect was going to happen when they put taxpayers in this position? This kind of thing is bound to happen when you throw billions and trillions of dollars out there and let the government get involved in running private companies.“Because this bill is not limited to AIG bonuses, it will regulate the pay of thousands of private citizens, a dangerous and unconstitutional disruption of America’s free-market system.“This is nothing more than a cover-up for liberal mistakes.” Congressman King has previously voted against the bailout, stimulus and omnibus spending bills passed by Congress.
03.18.2009	Congressman Steve King, the highest ranking Republican on the House Immigration Subcommittee, today made the following statement in response to comments House Speaker Nancy Pelosi recently made before a group of legal and illegal immigrants. Pelosi said that enforcement of current immigration law is "un-American." “It is no surprise that Speaker Pelosi believes our current immigration laws are ‘un-American,’” King said. “Her liberal San Francisco values do not reflect the views of the overwhelming majority of Americans who support enforcement of our immigration laws, border security and no amnesty for illegal immigrants. Enforcement actions against employers hiring illegal workers are a step in the right direction, especially in these trying economic times. The Pew Hispanic Center estimates 7 million jobs in this country are held by illegal immigrants. I would suggest it is un-American to allow illegal immigrants to hold jobs while so many American citizens are out of work.”From FOXNEWS.com: House Speaker Nancy Pelosi recently told a group of both legal and illegal immigrants and their families that enforcement of existing immigration laws, as currently practiced, is "un-American." The Speaker, condemning raids by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, referred to the immigrants she was addressing as "very, very patriotic." "Who in this country would not want to change a policy of kicking in doors in the middle of the night and sending a parent away from their families?" Pelosi told a mostly Hispanic gathering at St. Anthony's Church in San Francisco. "It must be stopped....What value system is that? I think it's un-American. I think it's un-American." http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2009/03/18/pelosi-tells-illegal-immigrants-work-site-raids-american/
03.17.2009	Congressman Steve King and other House members will host a FairTax Special Order tonight on the House floor. Special order speeches allow members to speak on any topic for a period of time reserved in advance. Special orders can be anywhere from 5 to 60 minutes in length. King and other House members will contrast President Obama’s tax-hiking budget proposal with the FairTax, a true economic stimulus. The FairTax offers American businesses and taxpayers a complete departure from the current tax system. Rather than taxing production, the FairTax taxes consumption.“Our current economic crisis will not be solved through tax increases or massive government spending,”“In these tough times, we need an innovative solution on Capitol Hill: the FairTax. The FairTax is the best and most effective way to encourage business growth and positive, long-term economic performance. Enacting the FairTax would usher in a new period of American economic growth, create new jobs across the country and give American citizens more control over their own paychecks.”
03.13.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced that a federal appropriation for the Highway 34 bridge in Mills County has been included in H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009. President Obama signed the legislation into law Wednesday. King secured $427,500 for the planning and construction of the U.S. 34 bridge.“The U.S. 34 bridge is critical to bringing economic growth and development to Mills County and the surrounding area,” said King. “I am pleased with the progress that is being made towards completion of this project. This funding demonstrates my continued commitment to seeing this bridge become a reality.” In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. When Congressman King initially requested the funding in early 2008, he did so with the understanding that his requests, and those of other members, would be addressed by the House through the normal appropriations process. Instead, all member requests were lumped into a single, 1,222 page, $410 billion spending bill that was written behind closed doors, with no legislative review or formal member input. The bill was made available for public scrutiny less than 48 hours before Members voted on it. As a result, Congressman King opposed H.R. 1105 during House consideration of the bill on February 25. The $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill significantly expands the federal deficit and funds the federal government for a mere seven months. That’s over $58.5 billion in taxpayer dollars per month.
03.13.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced a $27,000,000 federal appropriation for Lewis and Clark Regional Water System has been included in H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009. President Obama signed the legislation into law Wednesday. Congressman King and a bi-partisan delegation of House and Senate members from the tri-state area worked to secure the funding. When completed, the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System will be a wholesale supplier of treated water to 20 cities and rural water systems in northwest Iowa, southeast South Dakota and southwest Minnesota (an area the size of Connecticut). Over 300,000 people in the tri-state region will benefit from the project. The Lewis and Clark Regional Water System will have an immense impact on the quality of life and economic development of the tri-state region. The project is a unique cooperative agreement among the federal government, three states and 20 local governments. Iowa members include Hull, Rock Rapids, Sheldon, Sibley and Sioux Center. In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. When Congressman King initially requested the funding in early 2008, he did so with the understanding that his requests, and those of other members, would be addressed by the House through the normal appropriations process. Instead, all member requests were lumped into a single, 1,222 page, $410 billion spending bill that was written behind closed doors, with no legislative review or formal member input. The bill was made available for public scrutiny less than 48 hours before Members voted on it. As a result, Congressman King opposed H.R. 1105 during House consideration of the bill on February 25. The $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill significantly expands the federal deficit and funds the federal government for a mere seven months. That’s over $58.5 billion in taxpayer dollars per month.
03.13.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced a $1,146,000 federal appropriation for the Little Sioux River Watershed has been included in H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009. President Obama signed the legislation into law Wednesday. Funding will continue the implementation of the Little Sioux Flood Prevention Project. This project reduces flood damage, gully erosion damage, stream channel degradation, and improves water quality within the Little Sioux River Watershed of western Iowa. In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. When Congressman King initially requested the funding in early 2008, he did so with the understanding that his requests, and those of other members, would be addressed by the House through the normal appropriations process. Instead, all member requests were lumped into a single, 1,222 page, $410 billion spending bill that was written behind closed doors, with no legislative review or formal member input. The bill was made available for public scrutiny less than 48 hours before Members voted on it. As a result, Congressman King opposed H.R. 1105 during House consideration of the bill on February 25. The $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill significantly expands the federal deficit and funds the federal government for a mere seven months. That’s over $58.5 billion in taxpayer dollars per month.
03.13.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced that a federal appropriation for Highway 20 in western Iowa has been included in H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009. President Obama signed the legislation into law Wednesday. King secured $570,000 for continued construction of a four-lane U.S. 20 in northwest Iowa from the county line of Sac and Calhoun counties to Moville. This funding brings total federal funding secured for Highway 20 construction in western Iowa to more than $26,000,000 during Congressman King’s time in Congress. The four-lane project will increase traveler safety and economic development and stem population loss in one of Iowa’s most productive regions."For decades, many of us in northwest Iowa have been working together to four-lane Highway 20," said King. "We turned hope into a promise. A promise has now become a plan and soon it will be a reality. This funding continues the process of turning that hope into a reality." In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. When Congressman King initially requested the funding in early 2008, he did so with the understanding that his requests, and those of other members, would be addressed by the House through the normal appropriations process. Instead, all member requests were lumped into a single, 1,222 page, $410 billion spending bill that was written behind closed doors, with no legislative review or formal member input. The bill was made available for public scrutiny less than 48 hours before Members voted on it. As a result, Congressman King opposed H.R. 1105 during House consideration of the bill on February 25. The $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill significantly expands the federal deficit and funds the federal government for a mere seven months. That’s over $58.5 billion in taxpayer dollars per month.
03.12.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced that a $500,000 federal appropriation for the Sioux City Police Department’s National Meth Training Center and a $1,092,500 federal appropriation for I-29 utility relocation in Sioux City have been included in H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009. President Obama signed the legislation into law Wednesday. Funding for the Police Department’s National Methamphetamine Training Center will be used to continue the operations of the Center. The Training Center maintains a vision of providing the most current and relevant training in the area of narcotics law enforcement. The Center’s mission is to support the overall effort to control and reduce methamphetamine production, trafficking and distribution on the local, regional and national level.“The National Meth Training Center is providing leadership and developing much-needed training now and for the future to ensure our state and nation remain on the offensive in the effort to eradicate meth use,” King said. “The National Meth Training Center is in a unique position right now to help law enforcement professionals across the nation in our fight against drugs.” Funding for I-29 utility relocation will be used for design, construction and contract administration costs of utilities moves brought about by the reconstruction of Interstate 29 through Sioux City.“Better roads mean better access to the products Iowa has to offer,” King said. “This funding is a small part of the larger I-29 expansion project that will further solidify Sioux City’s position as the epicenter of business and transit in the tri-state area.” In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. When Congressman King initially requested the funding in early 2008, he did so with the understanding that his requests, and those of other members, would be addressed by the House through the normal appropriations process. Instead, all member requests were lumped into a single, 1,222 page, $410 billion spending bill that was written behind closed doors, with no legislative review or formal member input. The bill was made available for public scrutiny less than 48 hours before Members voted on it. As a result, Congressman King opposed H.R. 1105 during House consideration of the bill on February 25. The $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill significantly expands the federal deficit and funds the federal government for a mere seven months. That’s over $58.5 billion in taxpayer dollars per month.
03.12.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced a $150,000 federal appropriation for the City of Spencer has been included in H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009. President Obama signed the legislation into law Wednesday. Funding will continue design and construction of the combined sewer separation projects critical to eliminate the overflow of sewage into the basements of Spencer residents during major thunderstorms. Spencer continues to dedicate significant funding toward separating storm and sanitary sewers over 100 years old. These sewers serve one-third of Spencer residents. “Sewer overflows are a critical issue facing many Spencer residents and families,” King said. “I am pleased we were able to secure this funding, and I will continue to work on addressing this issue in the future.” In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. When Congressman King initially requested the funding in early 2008, he did so with the understanding that his requests, and those of other members, would be addressed by the House through the normal appropriations process. Instead, all member requests were lumped into a single, 1,222 page, $410 billion spending bill that was written behind closed doors, with no legislative review or formal member input. The bill was made available for public scrutiny less than 48 hours before Members voted on it. As a result, Congressman King opposed H.R. 1105 during House consideration of the bill on February 25. The $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill significantly expands the federal deficit and funds the federal government for a mere seven months. That’s over $58.5 billion in taxpayer dollars per month.
03.12.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced that several federal appropriations for Council Bluffs were included in H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009. President Obama signed the legislation into law Wednesday. Projects for Council Bluffs included:- $475,000 for the City of Council Bluffs for the development of the Playland Park neighborhood Funds will be used to implement a targeted program of single family rehabilitation and new construction, acquisition/rehabilitation of single family properties and blight removal/site development in the Playland Park neighborhood. “This is a significant project that will bring new life to a highly visible neighborhood that serves as a gateway into Council Bluffs,” King said. “I am pleased that we were able to secure this funding to allow this important project to move forward.” - $237,500 for the City of Council Bluffs for 24th Street Reconstruction Funds will be used to reconstruct 24th Street from I-80 to 23rd Avenue in order to accommodate traffic volume, improve safety and provide alternate routes for I-80 traffic. “24th Street allows the flow of more than 11 million visitors to many of Council Bluffs’ marquee attractions,” King said. “These funds will help provide for the much needed reconstruction of the 24th Street/23rd Avenue corridor to address congestion, improve safety and ensure that this vital artery continues to support growth and development in Council Bluffs.”- $476,000 for Iowa Western Community College’s Nursing Center of Excellence Funding for this project will allow Iowa Western Community College to build the new Iowa Western Nursing Center of Excellence. This center, with multiple laboratories and high-tech equipment, will train thousands of future nurses within the next decade. The new laboratories and equipment will strongly enhance substantial job creation within Iowa, improve access to health care for Iowans and expand the creation of a scientifically qualified workforce in the medical and health services arena. “Iowa Western Community College has an impressive track record of turning out high quality nurses that are ready and willing to address the lack of critical health care for many western Iowans. This funding will help give IWCC the tools it needs to grow its nursing program, which will have a positive, long-term effect on the current nursing shortage in western Iowa,” King said.- $600,000 for Heartland Family Services Residential Methamphetamine Treatment in Southwest Iowa Funding will go to a collaborative effort between Heartland Family Services, the Iowa Department of Human Services, the courts and other social service agencies. It is a clinically managed low-intensity residential service for substance abuse patients, using Heartland Family Service’s established residential treatment and counseling facilities. The program offers women an interim residential treatment service, and at the same time allows them to continue parenting their children. Treatment is directed toward applying recovery skills, preventing relapse, promoting personal responsibility and reintegrating the patient into work, education and family life. Services include individual, group and family therapy. “This funding will help promote a unique program that allows mothers recover from addictions while at the same time providing them the opportunity to become better parents,” King said. “I am happy to support the work that Heartland Family Services is doing, and I am confident they will have great success.” In requesting funding for these projects, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. When Congressman King initially requested the funding in early 2008, he did so with the understanding that his requests, and those of other members, would be addressed by the House through the normal appropriations process. Instead, all member requests were lumped into a single, 1,222 page, $410 billion spending bill that was written behind closed doors, with no legislative review or formal member input. The bill was made available for public scrutiny less than 48 hours before Members voted on it. As a result, Congressman King opposed H.R. 1105 during House consideration of the bill on February 25. The $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill significantly expands the federal deficit and funds the federal government for a mere seven months. That’s over $58.5 billion in taxpayer dollars per month.
03.12.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced a $428,000 federal appropriation for Northwestern College has been included in H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009. President Obama signed the legislation into law Wednesday. Funding will provide equipment for the nursing arts laboratory being built as part of the College’s Health and Healing Nursing Project. The project is designed to meet the needs of Northwestern’s growing Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) program, the staff educational needs of the Orange City Area Health System (OCAHS) and continued collaboration between OCAHS and Northwestern College. “Our nation lacks nurses in rural areas, and Northwestern’s Health and Healing Nursing Project is making great strides to address this shortage in western Iowa and beyond,” King said. “This program provides Northwestern College with the opportunity to educate new nurses at an advanced level and train the medical professionals of tomorrow.” In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. When Congressman King initially requested the funding in early 2008, he did so with the understanding that his requests, and those of other members, would be addressed by the House through the normal appropriations process. Instead, all member requests were lumped into a single, 1,222 page, $410 billion spending bill that was written behind closed doors, with no legislative review or formal member input. The bill was made available for public scrutiny less than 48 hours before Members voted on it. As a result, Congressman King opposed H.R. 1105 during House consideration of the bill on February 25. The $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill significantly expands the federal deficit and funds the federal government for a mere seven months. That’s over $58.5 billion in taxpayer dollars per month.
03.11.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following statement in favor of a long-term extension of E-Verify, an online system that employers can use to ensure their employees, after hire, are legally authorized to work. E-Verify is free and voluntary, and the E-Verify system is the best way to make certain new hires are legal and have valid Social Security numbers. An extension of the E-Verify program through September 30, 2009 was included in the massive $410 billion “omnibus” bill President Obama is expected to sign today. However, last night the Senate, by a 50-47 vote, tabled a motion to extend E-Verify for five years.“In these tough economic times, no American jobs should go to illegal immigrants,” King said. “E-Verify is a quick and easy system that shuts off the illegal worker jobs magnet and provides employers with a way to verify that their employees are legal to work. Congress needs a long-term extension of E-Verify to give employers the ability to plan for and use E-Verify in the years ahead.” A 2008 government study of E-Verify revealed that in 96.1 percent of cases, an employee's work authorization was confirmed immediately. Rep. King is the highest ranking Republican on the House Immigration Subcommittee.
03.11.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced a $282,000 federal appropriation for the Hungry Canyons Alliance in Western Iowa has been included in H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009. President Obama signed the legislation into law today. The Hungry Canyons Alliance works to research and implement solutions to the problems associated with stream channel erosion. Fine loess soils and their tendency to erode have caused many streams to down-cut significantly over the last 50 years, exposing utility lines and carrying away millions of tons of soil. Channel erosion has cost Iowa an estimated $1 billion in damage to infrastructure and farmland.“Iowa has been blessed with some of the most productive soil in the world, and we have a responsibility to protect its production capability while keeping our infrastructure and our farmland intact,” King said. “This funding, added with support from other levels, will go a long way in preventing a more expensive problem for our communities in the future.” In requesting funding for this project, Congressman King complied with all earmark transparency standards, including a Congressional record submission that includes the name of the request and a description of how the funds will be spent. When Congressman King initially requested the funding in early 2008, he did so with the understanding that his requests, and those of other members, would be addressed by the House through the normal appropriations process. Instead, all member requests were lumped into a single, 1,222 page, $410 billion spending bill that was written behind closed doors, with no legislative review or formal member input. The bill was made available for public scrutiny less than 48 hours before Members voted on it. As a result, Congressman King opposed H.R. 1105 during House consideration of the bill on February 25. The $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill significantly expands the federal deficit and funds the federal government for a mere seven months. That’s over $58.5 billion in taxpayer dollars per month.
03.09.2009	Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement on President Barack Obama’s executive order to federally fund scientific research that involves the destruction of human embryos.“I have held babies in my arms who had been frozen embryos for as long as nine years. They giggle, cuddle, laugh, play and love. They are as much a human being as any of us. At the Saddleback Church forum on August 16, 2008, Pastor Rick Warren asked Barack Obama when life begins. Obama answered by stating that the question is 'above my pay grade.' Now, President Obama has decided it is no longer above his pay grade, and that there will be no respect for conscientious objections from life-loving, tax-paying Americans. All taxpayers will have to pay to take the life of, and experiment with the tissue of, innocent human embryos. I object, Mr. President.”Transcript from Saddleback Civil Forum: WARREN: That was a freebie. That was a gimme. That was a gimme, OK? Now, let’s deal with abortion; 40 million abortions since Roe v. Wade. As a pastor, I have to deal with this all of the time, all of the pain and all of the conflicts. I know this is a very complex issue. Forty million abortions, at what point does a baby get human rights, in your view? OBAMA: Well, you know, I think that whether you’re looking at it from a theological perspective or a scientific perspective, answering that question with specificity, you know, is above my pay grade.
03.05.2009	Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement on H.R. 1106, Speaker Pelosi’s “cram-down” housing legislation. A cram-down is a court-ordered reduction of the balance due on a home mortgage loan.“Responsible Iowans who pay their bills and follow the rules should not be forced to pay for the mortgages of law-breakers, scam artists and those who acted irresponsibly,” King said. “I reject the idea that poor decisions, fraud and misrepresentation should be rewarded. In our free-market society, the degree of risk must be proportional to the potential for profit. This legislation upsets that equation and punishes law-abiding taxpayers and homeowners.”BACKGROUND: - This “cram-down” legislation allows bankruptcy judges to rewrite the mortgage terms on an individual’s primary residence. Courts will be able to alter contracts by reducing mortgage principal, adjusting interest rates, extending maturity dates, and limiting recovery of mortgage-related creditor fees.
03.04.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced Glenwood Volunteer Fire Association will receive a $7,332 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The grant is for operations and safety.“I am pleased to announce this grant which will greatly benefit the outstanding Glenwood Volunteer Fire Association and improve emergency response services in Mills County,” King said. “Our first responders and firefighters deserve our full support as they work to protect our families and communities.”BACKGROUND: - The Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program is an important component of a larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards. Since 2004, with the Fiscal Year 2008 awards, AFG has provided a total of almost $2.75 billion to first-responder organizations to purchase response equipment, personal protective equipment, and vehicles. - The purpose of the FY 2008 AFG is to award grants directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards. Using a competitive process overseen by fire service subject matter experts, AFG grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG program.
03.04.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced the Sioux City Fire Department will receive a $76,032 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The grant is for operations and safety.“I am pleased to announce this grant which will greatly benefit the outstanding Sioux City Fire Department and improve emergency response services in Sioux City,” King said. “Our first responders and firefighters deserve our full support as they work to protect our families and communities.”BACKGROUND: - The Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program is an important component of a larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards. Since 2004, with the Fiscal Year 2008 awards, AFG has provided a total of almost $2.75 billion to first-responder organizations to purchase response equipment, personal protective equipment, and vehicles. - The purpose of the FY 2008 AFG is to award grants directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards. Using a competitive process overseen by fire service subject matter experts, AFG grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG program.
03.04.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced Oakland Volunteer Fire & Rescue will receive a $38,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The grant is for operations and safety.“I am pleased to announce this grant which will greatly benefit the outstanding Oakland Volunteer Fire & Rescue and improve emergency response services in Pottawattamie County,” King said. “Our first responders and firefighters deserve our full support as they work to protect our families and communities.”BACKGROUND: - The Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program is an important component of a larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards. Since 2004, with the Fiscal Year 2008 awards, AFG has provided a total of almost $2.75 billion to first-responder organizations to purchase response equipment, personal protective equipment, and vehicles. - The purpose of the FY 2008 AFG is to award grants directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards. Using a competitive process overseen by fire service subject matter experts, AFG grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG program.
03.04.2009	Congressman Steve King today introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives declaring “a definable victory” in Iraq. The resolution outlines the path American military personnel have followed and calls upon President Obama to maintain this hard-won achievement as President. “Thanks to his adoption of the surge strategy, and on balance by every objective measure, President Bush left office having secured a definable victory in Iraq,” King said. “Congress defined eighteen benchmarks for success, seventeen of which have been substantially or completely met since the surge strategy was adopted.” King’s resolution is intended to celebrate the accomplishments of the men and women who have served in Iraq.“We express profound gratitude to our American service personnel who have sacrificed life and limb in their noble effort to give the Iraqis a chance at freedom. Success in Iraq is fragile but substantially achieved, even by the standards set by the Pelosi Congress. Iraq has been transformed from a country run by a dictatorial, terrorist regime that tortured its own people, invaded its neighbors and promoted terror abroad into a nation of free, self-governing people who soon will be able to defend themselves,” King said. The resolution is also a validation of the surge strategy pursued by President George W. Bush.“On January 10, 2007, rather than accept that victory in Iraq was no longer possible, President Bush courageously ordered the adoption of the surge strategy,” King said. “His decision will no doubt be recognized by history as the turning point in this conflict. Since the surge strategy was adopted, we have seen a dramatic decrease in civilian deaths, ethno-sectarian deaths, militia activity and terrorist activity, and we’ve seen Iraqis and the Iraqi government begin the process of national reconciliation.”“However, this victory may be squandered if President Obama withdraws American forces too hastily. History will judge both President Bush and President Obama by the decisions they make on Iraq. The responsibility to maintain a definable victory in Iraq is now President Obama’s.”
02.26.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following comments about a $950,000 earmark for the National Council of La Raza, a pro-amnesty organization, in the omnibus spending bill that passed the House Wednesday and is currently under consideration in the Senate.“Hard-working Americans ought to be outraged that the latest liberal spending spree includes a giveaway to a pro-amnesty group,” King said. “American taxpayers do not support La Raza’s agenda or its position in support of amnesty for illegal aliens. At a time of great economic unrest, the last thing Congress should be doing is handing out cash to apologists for immigration law breakers.” The $950,000 earmark for La Raza is in the Transportation/HUD portion of the omnibus bill. The funds are designated for “capitalization of a revolving loan fund to be used for nationwide community development activities.”
02.24.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following remarks regarding President Obama’s speech to the nation.“Throughout our nation’s history, the resolve and hard work of the American people pulled America through trying times, including challenges similar to those we currently face.“President Obama understands that America’s strength is its people, but his proposals show a lack of confidence in the free-market system that can keep America a strong and prosperous country. Bigger government, more wasteful Washington spending, new bailouts for bad decisions and tax increases will not create good-paying jobs or stimulate the economy. Now is the time for innovative solutions that stimulate long-term growth without forcing our grandchildren into more debt. “Eliminating the income tax, removing taxes on production and enacting the FairTax - a national sales tax - would grow the private sector and create new, good-paying jobs. Enacting the FairTax will put American taxpayers back in control and jumpstart our economy.”
02.18.2009	Congressman Steve King has introduced legislation to make it easier for American immigrants to fully realize the benefits of opportunities in the United States. The English Language Unity Act of 2009 would establish English as the official language of the United States. The bill would require the federal government to conduct business in English without putting restrictions on languages spoken or on the private sector. With 58 original co-sponsors, the bill has broad, bi-partisan support. There are over 6,000 languages spoken throughout the world, and in the United States there are at least 28 different dominant languages -- those spoken by at least 100,000 people. The English Language Unity Act helps immigrants by encouraging them to learn English to fully integrate into American society.“English is the language of opportunity in America,” Congressman King said. “Learning English opens doors to better jobs and opportunities, the foundation America was built upon. The only way to fully learn about American culture, and what makes America truly unique, is through our common bond of the English language.” Almost 12 million Americans are linguistically isolated, according to the U.S. Census. In addition, immigrants who are not proficient in English earn an average of 17% less than English- proficient immigrants with similar backgrounds, experience and education. The gap grows wider with the opportunities English-proficient immigrants realize while moving up the economic ladder. Regardless of race, gender or citizenship status, Americans have declared their support for an official language. A survey conducted by the nationally recognized Tarrance Group found that 84 percent of Americans favor making English the official language of the United States. Other polls taken on a state-by-state basis have indicated a similar threshold of support. Twenty-seven states have passed similar English language statutes. In the Iowa Senate, Congressman King led the effort to pass English language unity legislation, signed into law in 2002. Congressman King introduced similar legislation during the 110th Congress, and 153 House members co-sponsored the legislation. In 1996 the House of Representatives passed the Emerson English Language Empowerment Act, in a bipartisan vote, which would have made English the official language of the U.S. Government. The Senate failed to act on the bill.
02.18.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced the Sergeant Bluff Fire and Rescue Department will receive a $38,010 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The grant is for operations and safety.“I am pleased to announce this grant which will greatly benefit the outstanding Sergeant Bluff Fire and Rescue Department and improve emergency response services in Woodbury County,” King said. “Our first responders and firefighters deserve our full support as they work to protect our families and communities.”BACKGROUND: - The Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program is an important component of a larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards. Since 2004, with the Fiscal Year 2008 awards, AFG has provided a total of almost $2.75 billion to first-responder organizations to purchase response equipment, personal protective equipment, and vehicles. - The purpose of the FY 2008 AFG is to award grants directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards. Using a competitive process overseen by fire service subject matter experts, AFG grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG program.
02.13.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following statement after voting against a massive economic “stimulus” spending bill pushed through the House by Speaker Nancy Pelosi. The House voted on the 1,073 page, $789 billion bill Friday afternoon after the legislation was posted online for the first time at 10:45 p.m. Thursday night. Debate began on the legislation at 9:28 a.m. Friday morning.“Today liberals in Congress saddled our grandchildren with staggering debt and made America less able to grow out of a crisis. This massive grab-bag of taxpayer-funded subsidies, pet projects and added bureaucracy will prolong our economic turmoil and delay our recovery.“From blue- to white-collar employees, from farmers to small-business owners, everyone is affected by these tough times. Congress should take action, but it must be the right kind of action. Our economy will not recover because government spends more. It will recover because people produce more.“True market-based, economic recovery legislation would include capital gains tax elimination and more tax relief for small business owners and tax-paying families. Growing government as a means to stimulate the economy delays our recovery.” Background: - This bill combined with other recent government bailouts, commitments and spending to address our financial crisis would total around $9.7 trillion. Bloomberg.com reports this is enough money to pay off more than 90 percent of Americans' home mortgages. - Economists say the Pelosi stimulus plan won’t actually stimulate the economy: http://www.mcclatchydc.com/227/story/62082.html - The bill is also full of pork-barrel spending: http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/02/12/AR2009021203502.html?wprss=rss_politics
02.11.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following statement in response to comments by Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) on The Bill Press Show supporting the reinstatement of the so-called “Fairness Doctrine.” A partial transcript of Harkin’s comments follows King’s statement.“It is incredible that in today’s modern media age, where information is easily accessible in so many different forms, Tom Harkin wants to squelch your First Amendment rights in favor of Chinese-style censorship,” King said. “Does Rush Limbaugh intimidate Senator Harkin so much that he wants to ration free speech? Allowing the government, run by liberals, to control broadcast journalism and determine what on-air content is and is not ‘fair’ will stifle our free speech and hurt our free flow of information.”TRANSCRIPT OF SENATOR HARKIN ON BILL PRESS SHOW:SENATOR TOM HARKIN (D-IA): Well, anytime – just let me know Bill. I love being with you, and thanks again for all you do to get the truth and the facts out there. By the way, I read your Op-Ed in the Washington Post the other day. I ripped it out, I took it into my office and said ‘there you go, we gotta get the Fairness Doctrine back in law again.’BILL PRESS: Alright, well good for you. You know, we gotta work on that, because they are just shutting down progressive talk from one city after another. All we want is, you know, some balance on the airwaves, that’s all. You know, we’re not going to take any of the conservative voices off the airwaves, but just make sure that there are a few progressives and liberals out there, right?SENATOR TOM HARKIN (D-IA): Exactly, and that’s why we need the fair -- that’s why we need the Fairness Doctrine back.Background on the Fairness Doctrine: Originally introduced in 1949, the Fairness Doctrine required radio and television stations to give equal time to conservative and liberal opinions on political issues. If stations failed to comply, they could face a penalty or have their broadcast licenses revoked. The Fairness Doctrine was eliminated in 1987. Congressman King is a co-sponsor of the Broadcasters Freedom Act, which would keep the Federal Communications Commission from reinstituting the Fairness Doctrine.
02.09.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced the Oak Township Fire Department will receive a $20,178 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The grant is for operations and safety.“I am pleased to announce this grant which will greatly benefit the outstanding Oak Township Fire Department and improve emergency response services in Mills County,” King said. “Our first responders and firefighters deserve our full support as they work to protect our families and communities.”BACKGROUND: - The Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program is an important component of a larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards. Since 2004, with the Fiscal Year 2008 awards, AFG has provided a total of almost $2.75 billion to first-responder organizations to purchase response equipment, personal protective equipment, and vehicles. - The purpose of the FY 2008 AFG is to award grants directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards. Using a competitive process overseen by fire service subject matter experts, AFG grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG program.
02.04.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following statement after voting against an expansion of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), known as HAWK-i in Iowa. The expansion provides new benefits to illegal immigrants and wealthy families at the expense of low-income children. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi pushed the bill through Congress by skipping the normal committee process, allowing Americans virtually no opportunity to improve the legislation. The bill waters down citizenship verification requirements by allowing applicants to obtain benefits only by attesting to a Social Security number, making it easier for illegal aliens to get taxpayer-funded health benefits. The Congressional Budget Office estimates this change will cost taxpayers $8.9 billion over ten years. The bill will be funded by a 62-cent-per-pack increase on smokers.“This misguided bill is a victory for illegal immigrants and wealthy families, but a defeat for needy children,” King said. “Speaker Pelosi used budget gimmicks and debate suppression to ram a bill through the House that gives illegal immigrants and wealthy families taxpayer-funded handouts. Taxpayer dollars designated for children’s health care welfare should go to children in need, not illegal aliens or families with high income levels.” Background: - The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service (CRS) calls tobacco taxes “the most regressive of the federal taxes,” meaning that the vast majority of any increases will be on the backs of low-income American families, the very folks intended to benefit from SCHIP. According to the Heritage Foundation, “Around half of smokers are in families earning less than 200 percent of the federal poverty line (FPL), so increasing the tobacco tax would burden the families in the income class that SCHIP and Medicaid are trying to help.” Heritage Foundation research reveals the increase in tobacco taxes requires nine million new people to take up smoking in order for SCHIP to be fully funded: http://www.heritage.org/research/healthcare/wm1548.cfm. - According to the Wall Street Journal, “the bill is expected to lift a provision in place for more than a decade that bars legal immigrant children and pregnant women from federal health programs during their first five years in the U.S.” Overturning this law undoes one of the key aspects of the popular 1996 welfare reform legislation that contributed greatly to reducing dependency and saving taxpayer dollars.
02.03.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following statement today on former Senator Tom Daschle’s nomination to be Secretary of Health and Human Services. “Tom Daschle, speaking on the Senate floor in 1998, stated that ‘tax cheaters cheat us all, and the IRS should enforce our laws to the letter.’ Daschle now believes that failing to pay $140,167 in late tax and interest payments – likely with no penalty for failing to do so - is not significant enough to preclude him from serving in one of the top positions in our government. “Vice President Biden once remarked that paying taxes is a patriotic duty. Tom Daschle passed up his opportunity to do his patriotic duty.“Confirming Tom Daschle as Health Secretary would be an insult to the millions of Americans who work hard and pay their taxes on time. If President Obama continues to press for Daschle’s confirmation, it sends a message to the American people that paying taxes is irrelevant and unnecessary. This nomination represents the height of hypocrisy from an Administration that promised change and new levels of transparency in government.”
01.30.2009	Congressman Steve King today announced Class of 2013 nominations from Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District to three of the U.S. Service Academies.“Western Iowa produced many outstanding candidates this year, and I commend the applicants for their desire to serve our country,” King said. “Attending a service academy is an honor, and each of these candidates deserves strong consideration. I congratulate the nominees and wish them the best throughout the selection process.”Applicant's Name Hometown Academy Nominated To Parents Names Benjamin Michael Allen Granville US Military Academy Bryan and Aspen Allen Daniel James Allen Granville US Air Force Academy Bryan and Aspen Allen Bret Steven Baumbach Council Bluffs US Air Force Academy Leslie and Cynthia Baumbach Aaron Todd Brockshus Spencer US Military Academy Todd and Barbara Brockshus Jeffrey Adam Inloes Kellerton US Naval Academy David and Beverly Inloes Aaron Blane Kerkhoff Audubon US Air Force Academy Blane and Katherine Kerkhoff Thor Joseph Klinker Primghar US Naval Academy William and Dianne Klinker Gregory Paul Reis Pacific Junction US Air Force Academy Daniel and Patricia Reis Cody M. Smith Council Bluffs US Naval Academy Michael Smith and Jane Lassek Fletcher Russell Sunderman New Market US Air Force Academy Jay and Mary Ellen Sunderman **** In addition to the above candidates, Congressman King would like to congratulate Randi Michelle Imerman from Guthrie Center for being offered a Presidential Nomination to the United States Air Force Academy. Randi’s parents are Brick and Laura Imerman.About The Nomination Process To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must meet the eligibility requirements established by law and be nominated from an authorized person including a Member of the United States Senate or House of Representatives. Who Is Eligible? An applicant for a nomination must meet the following eligibility requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to a service academy: He or she must be at least 17 years old, but not have passed the 23rd birthday, must be a United States citizen, and must be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents.Service Academies There are five Service Academies: The United States Air Force (USAFA), Naval (USNA), Military (USMA), Merchant Marine (USMMA), and Coast Guard (USCGA) Academies. Nominations are required for all but the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, to which appointments are made on the basis of an annual nationwide competition.
01.28.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following statement after voting against a massive economic “stimulus” spending bill pushed through the House by Speaker Nancy Pelosi.“Our country tried massive government spending to solve economic problems in the 1930’s, and today we call the result the Great Depression. Growing government as a means to stimulate the economy has always delayed the recovery. “The spending waste and compounding interest in this bill adds up to over one trillion dollars, most of which will go to non-stimulating, pet projects of Nancy Pelosi and liberals in Congress. Our grandchildren will inherit a country further in debt and less able to grow out of a crisis.“A true market-based stimulus would include capital gains tax elimination and more tax relief for small business owners. Instead, Pelosi and liberals in the House want a far bigger New Deal than the old New Deal, the instrument most responsible for the delay of our recovery from the Great Depression.”Background: - The 647-page, $825 billion Pelosi economic “stimulus” plan passed the House Wednesday. - According to the Wall Street Journal, “the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said government borrowing prompted by enactment of the plan would add another $347 billion, pushing the estimated cost of the stimulus plan to more than $1 trillion, including interest.” (http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123307183916519783.html) - Included in the bill are hundreds of billions of dollars in spending that adds to the record federal deficit to fund federal subsidies, pet projects, and bureaucracy. A few highlights: - $335 million for sexually transmitted disease education and prevention programs - $80 billion for refundable tax-credits. Unlike across the board tax cuts, these temporary tax credits send refund payments directly to individuals, even if they pay no taxes. These refunds do little to spur growth, create more jobs, or stimulate the economy and are more similar to new spending through tax policy than actual tax cuts. - $30 billion—only 3.6% of the total spending—for highway construction. Despite calls by Democrats for increased infrastructure spending to create jobs, a relatively small share of the total $816 billion package is devoted to highway and transportation infrastructure. - $50 million for the National Endowment for the Arts to fund projects and activities which preserve jobs in the non-profit arts sector. - $800 million for Amtrak—the federal subsidized rail carrier which consistently losses money—for the purpose of reducing Amtrak’s $10 billion capital backlog. - $400 million for NASA climate change research. - $150 million for building repairs at the Smithsonian.
01.27.2009	Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement after he and other House Republicans met with President Obama in the Capitol building at 12 PM ET/11 AM CT.“I appreciate the tone that President Obama delivered, and the give and take and exchange of information that we had today. It became clear to me as I listened to his responses that we have some very, very deep philosophical disagreements, and we have a different understanding of history. His understanding of FDR’s initiatives during the Great Depression is that FDR did not do enough. My impression is that FDR’s initiatives delayed the recovery. That’s one conceptual difference that we have. “I think the private sector should bring economic solutions, not government. I think we should suspend capital gains taxes for at least two years. The President was reluctant to respond to the capital gains question. I want a free market stimulus plan, and it looks like the focus is on a new New Deal and growing a bigger New Deal than we had in the 1930’s.“We made it clear to the President that Speaker Pelosi and those with the gavels here in the House are not negotiating with Republicans and have locked the door to negotiations. The President wants the door to be open so we can have a dialogue, and I do too.”
01.23.2009	Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement on news that President Obama will issue an Executive Order rescinding the Mexico City Policy. Originally implemented by President Reagan, the Mexico City Policy prevents taxpayer dollars from going to groups that provide abortions. Without this protection in place, foreign NGOs that actively promote or provide abortion are now eligible for family planning funds paid for by American taxpayers. “President Obama’s decision is a dramatic step away from building a culture of life in America,” King said. “Despite his soaring campaign rhetoric of compromise and building bridges, the President tossed bi-partisan cooperation out the window to pay back the abortion lobby and those who embrace a culture of death. With our economy in recession, every single taxpayer dollar must be spent wisely, and this action sends your precious money to groups that promote abortion as a method of family planning. President Obama publicly committed himself to reducing abortions, but abortions will never be reduced through the promotion and funding of abortion. Today the President forced those of us who conscientiously object to abortion to pay for abortions overseas.”Background: - The Mexico City Policy was first implemented by President Reagan, rescinded by President Clinton, and then reinstated by President Bush. - The policy requires that foreign nongovernmental organizations agree as a condition of receipt of federal funds for family planning activities that the organization will neither perform nor actively promote abortion as a method of family planning. - Without this protection in place, foreign NGOs that actively promote or provide abortion are now eligible for U.S. taxpayer funded family planning activities. - The Mexico City Policy ensures that U.S. bilateral family planning programs are not conduits for exporting abortion internationally. Without the Mexico City policy, U.S. taxpayer dollars spent for family planning contracts will line the pockets of foreign organizations who promote and provide abortion. - Without this policy, foreign abortion advocacy groups will use U.S. taxpayer funds to establish operations and provide family planning services with one hand while promoting abortion with the other hand; thereby sending the message that all of their activities bear the U.S. stamp of approval. - The policy is not anti-family planning, it is anti-abortion. A policy against promoting abortion is only "anti-family planning" if one assumes that abortion itself is a method of "family planning." - The policy does not reduce family planning funding. The policy does not take one penny away from the $441 million the Committee has appropriated for global population assistance. On the contrary, the policy strengthens these programs by ensuring that they are not connected to abortion activities.
01.20.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following statement today after former Iowa Governor Tom Vilsack was confirmed as Secretary of Agriculture by the Senate. “It has been a long time since Iowa has had a Secretary of Agriculture,” Congressman King said. “Governor Vilsack understands the importance of agriculture to Iowa’s economy and to our communities. I congratulate him on his confirmation, and I look forward to working with him in Washington. Now, Secretary Vilsack will be our ally as we work to expand renewable fuels and stand up for Iowa livestock and grain producers.”
01.19.2009	Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement after President Bush commuted the sentences of former U.S. Border Patrol agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean.“President Bush responded to the calls for compassion that came from across the country and made the right decision in granting these two men commutations,” King said. “Today we know the families of Agents Ramos and Compean will be rejoined, and I can only imagine the joy in their homes.”Background: - Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean were United States Border Patrol Agents who worked on the U.S. border with Mexico. On February 17, 2005, near Fabens, Texas, Agents Ramos and Compean, along with other Border Patrol Agents, were involved in the pursuit of Osvaldo Aldrete-Davila, a Mexican national they suspected of smuggling drugs. After a high speed vehicle chase, Aldrete-Davila abandoned the van he was driving – which was later discovered to contain 743 pounds of marijuana, worth approximately $1 million – on the U.S. side of the border and fled on foot towards the border with Mexico. Ramos and Compean exited their vehicles and continued the pursuit on foot, with Compean attempting to intercept Aldrete-Davila while Ramos chased Aldrete-Davila directly. During the course of the effort to apprehend Aldrete-Davila, both Ramos and Compean discharged their service weapons. Ramos testified later that he believed Aldrete-Davila had a gun in his hand, while Compean testified that he saw something “shiny” in Aldrete-Davila’s hand. But no weapon was recovered presumably because Aldrete-Davila absconded to Mexico. According to forensic evidence, Aldrete-Davila was struck by a bullet from the gun of Agent Ramos. However, both Agents later testified that they did not realize at the time that he had been hit, and Aldrete-Davila fled across the border into Mexico. When the Department of Homeland Security learned of the incident – via a Border Patrol Agent who was a childhood friend of Aldrete-Davila’s – an investigation was launched in conjunction with the office of the U.S. Attorney for West Texas. Ramos and Compean were arrested and charged with multiple crimes. Months after the original charges were obtained, the Government drastically increased the charges by securing a superseding indictment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 924 (c), “discharge of a firearm in commission of a crime of violence,” which carries a mandatory 10-year minimum sentence.
01.16.2009	Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement calling on President Bush to pardon former U.S. Border Patrol agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean before the President exits the Oval Office on Tuesday. A photo of the Congressman speaking at a press conference this week asking the President to pardon the former agents is attached.“President Bush presented himself to the American public as a compassionate conservative, and as he leaves office, he has an opportunity to prove his compassion,” King said. “Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean faithfully served our country as Border Patrol agents, and both are serving excessive sentences for the crimes they were accused of. The President has already pardoned an arsonist, an armed bank robber and multiple drug dealers, and Ramos and Compean deserve to be released immediately. These men are not rogue or corrupt officers who used guns in an inappropriate manner, and every day Ramos and Compean sit in prison, their families suffer. Mr. President, free Ramos and Compean and correct this gross miscarriage of justice.”Background: - Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean were United States Border Patrol Agents who worked on the U.S. border with Mexico. On February 17, 2005, near Fabens, Texas, Agents Ramos and Compean, along with other Border Patrol Agents, were involved in the pursuit of Osvaldo Aldrete-Davila, a Mexican national they suspected of smuggling drugs. After a high speed vehicle chase, Aldrete-Davila abandoned the van he was driving – which was later discovered to contain 743 pounds of marijuana, worth approximately $1 million – on the U.S. side of the border and fled on foot towards the border with Mexico. Ramos and Compean exited their vehicles and continued the pursuit on foot, with Compean attempting to intercept Aldrete-Davila while Ramos chased Aldrete-Davila directly. During the course of the effort to apprehend Aldrete-Davila, both Ramos and Compean discharged their service weapons. Ramos testified later that he believed Aldrete-Davila had a gun in his hand, while Compean testified that he saw something “shiny” in Aldrete-Davila’s hand. But no weapon was recovered presumably because Aldrete-Davila absconded to Mexico. According to forensic evidence, Aldrete-Davila was struck by a bullet from the gun of Agent Ramos. However, both Agents later testified that they did not realize at the time that he had been hit, and Aldrete-Davila fled across the border into Mexico. When the Department of Homeland Security learned of the incident – via a Border Patrol Agent who was a childhood friend of Aldrete-Davila’s – an investigation was launched in conjunction with the office of the U.S. Attorney for West Texas. Ramos and Compean were arrested and charged with multiple crimes. Months after the original charges were obtained, the Government drastically increased the charges by securing a superseding indictment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 924 (c), “discharge of a firearm in commission of a crime of violence,” which carries a mandatory 10-year minimum sentence. - According to the Washington Times, Ignacio "Nacho" Ramos and Jose Alonso Compean were sentenced to 11 and 12 years in prison, respectively, in October 2006 in the nonfatal shooting of a now-convicted Mexican drug smuggler. Ramos and Compean have been in federal prison since January 2007. - President Bush was asked about a pardon for Ramos and Compean during his final press conference, but he declined to discuss any issues relating to pardons.
01.14.2009	
01.12.2009	Congressman Steve King today made the following statement about President-elect Barack Obama’s address on the state of the American economy.“President-elect Obama said today he believes only massive government spending can spur the American economy. That is what FDR thought in the 1930’s before he embarked upon an historic, unprecedented expansion of government and the national debt. It is obvious that Barack Obama and I each took away a very different lesson from history.“Roosevelt’s New Deal delayed recovery from the Great Depression and contributed to its depths. Obama’s ‘New’ New Deal is far bigger than anything FDR tried to do and threatens our free enterprise system. Government jobs, government expansion, more national debt and the government competing with the private sector for employees and eventually capital is exactly the wrong direction. This could be the start of a long day’s journey into night.“The American economy needs a shot in the arm, but the answer is not increased government spending or a legion of new government workers. This Congress needs to take a step back and gain perspective on how unprecedented the level of government spending being discussed really is.”
01.12.2009	Congressman Steve King and his Republican colleagues today penned a letter to President-elect Barack Obama and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi outlining concerns with liberal proposals to expand the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), known as HAWK-i in Iowa, to illegal immigrants and to an Iowa family of four earning as much as $106,000 a year. Pelosi is planning to bring SCHIP legislation to the House floor next week. Americans will have little opportunity to improve the bill because Pelosi will not allow the bill to go through the normal committee process. “By refusing an open debate on this legislation, Speaker Pelosi is trying to use SCHIP to push her San Francisco values on the rest of the country,” Congressman King said. “Budget gimmicks and debate suppression are the latest Pelosi theatrics so that illegal aliens and adults can receive taxpayer-funded handouts. Hard-earned taxpayer dollars designated for the children’s health care welfare program should go to poor children, not illegal aliens, high-income families or adults. Any bill that forces American taxpayers to pay for welfare to illegal aliens or high-income families has to be stopped.” The full letter sent by Congressman King and his Republican colleagues follows: January 9, 2009 Dear President-elect Obama and Speaker Pelosi: Thank you for expressing your desire to work with us to address the needs of the American people. We recognize that reauthorizing the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) is an early legislative priority, and we hope that you will consider this legislation to be one of the first opportunities for bipartisan cooperation. During the last Congress, significant efforts were made in an attempt to address concerns raised by House Republicans about how the underlying bills would impact uninsured children. Despite the progress that was made, there are still a few outstanding issues that we hope you agree should be addressed when we work to reauthorize the program this year:Serving Eligible Low-income Children First SCHIP is intended to serve those that are neediest first. As low-income families continue to face more economic insecurity, providing access to affordable health care coverage, regardless of any job change or displacement, should be our first priority. The legislation should demand success from the states in enrolling poor and low-income children below 200 percent of the federal poverty level, especially those who are currently eligible for Medicaid and/or SCHIP, but are not yet enrolled. Demanding success from the states could be as simple as requiring that states meet a threshold of enrollment before further expansions. Nearly all the states have demonstrated over the past year to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services that meeting this standard is indeed possible. Furthermore, in the current economic environment, several states have indicated that they will be experiencing shortfalls that could impact their ability to provide Medicaid benefits and services. Asking states to expand their SCHIP program before they are able to finance their existing Medicaid program would be a mistake. Expanding SCHIP to higher income families will only exacerbate the real access to care problem in the Medicaid program.Citizenship Status We believe that only U.S. citizens and certain legal residents should be permitted to benefit from a program like SCHIP. We also think it is fair to say that both parties believe that our immigration system is broken. That is why it is so important that the legislation include stronger provisions to prevent fraud by including citizenship verification standards to ensure that only eligible U.S. citizens and certain legal residents are enrolled in the program.Protecting Private Insurance Options We agree that those with private coverage should not be forced into a government-run plan. SCHIP legislation should focus expansion efforts on children who are currently uninsured instead of moving children who have private health insurance options into government-run health insurance. Moving a child from private health insurance to government-run health insurance should not be part of your stated goal of providing SCHIP for 10 million children, a number we assume to be targeted towards low-income uninsured children.Stable Funding Source In order to guarantee access to the program and long term stability, SCHIP should be funded through a stable funding source, not budget gimmicks. Further, the legislation should not include extraneous provisions unrelated to SCHIP that limit patient choice or prohibit access to quality medical care. Our nation’s Governors need a stable SCHIP program so they may properly budget. Every American faces the crushing burden of a declining economy. This should not be a time Congress raises taxes, especially on the poorest Americans, to finance program expansions as part of the SCHIP reauthorization bill. We believe these to be critical elements to improve this vital program that if fully incorporated would dramatically increase bipartisan support for the legislation. Thank you for the consideration of this request. We look forward hearing from you and working with you towards a bipartisan agreement. Sincerely,
01.06.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following statement today about an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposal that would impose new taxes on livestock. The proposal, included in the EPA’s Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPR), would allow the EPA to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, such as burping or emitting gas, from “stationary” sources like cattle and hogs.“With unemployment on the rise, the national debt growing and Americans struggling through current economic conditions, the last thing our federal government needs to address is gas produced by farm animals. Imposing a livestock ‘gas tax’ will increase operating costs for farm producers and drive up prices for consumers. This tax is a cow pie in the face of the livestock industry delivered by environmental extremists and the anti-meat lobby.”BACKGROUND: - The EPA’s Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPR) is available at http://www.epa.gov/air/caaac/pdfs/2008_09_GHGshort.pdf - The ANPR contains suggestions on how to regulate greenhouse gases, including those from “stationary” sources.
01.05.2009	Congressman Steve King made the following statement today about President-elect Barack Obama’s “stimulus package” and his plans to create 600,000 new government jobs."The federal government is bloated, inefficient and spends too much of your hard-earned money. Not coincidentally, the federal government is also the largest employer in America. Now President-elect Obama and Speaker Nancy Pelosi want more of your hard-earned taxpayer dollars to pay for more unneeded government workers.“The ‘stimulus’ plan proposed by President-elect Obama would increase government employees by 33%. 600,000 new government jobs will only add to the waste, fraud and abuse coming out of Washington, D.C. and fail to provide a true economic stimulus. Obama pledges to create new private sector jobs, but how many will be taxpayer funded?“Not long ago, Japan faced the same problems currently ailing the American economy, including a struggling stock market, bank failures, credit problems and a ballooning national debt. Japanese policymakers believed they could rescue their economy by creating new government jobs. Years and years of increased government spending, high taxes, slashed interest rates and bailouts only intensified Japan’s economic recession.“Rather than follow this failed blueprint, the President-elect should look to cut taxes and reduce government spending to encourage business growth and long-term performance. A national sales tax, like the FairTax, would grow the private sector and create new, good-paying jobs which would stimulate the American manufacturing industry. The American economy needs a shot in the arm, but the answer is not a legion of new government workers.”
12.31.2008	Congressman Steve King made the following statement today on the current situation in Gaza."We all want peace in the Middle East, but a true agreement that balances Israel’s security concerns with the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people can only be obtained if senseless violence in this region ends.“When Hamas chose to abandon a six-month peace agreement in favor of rocket attacks against Israel on December 19, Israel rightfully responded to defend its people. An estimated 500,000 Israeli citizens are now within range of Hamas’ rocket arsenal, and each unprovoked attack from Hamas puts thousands of lives at risk.“Hamas should immediate suspend its attacks and pledge to work with Israel on an agreement bringing peace to this troubled region.”
12.19.2008	Congressman Steve King made the following statement today about the announcement that a full-time federal prosecutor will be assigned to Council Bluffs in 2009."The Council Bluffs area will benefit greatly from today’s announcement. A new federal prosecutor will provide a boost to local law officials and enhance the already outstanding law enforcement presence in Council Bluffs. Adding a prosecutor has long been a goal of ours. Through community-wide teamwork, today this goal is achieved. Chief Keith Mehlin, U.S. Attorney Matthew Whitaker, Mayor Tom Hanafan, Pottawattamie County Attorney Matt Wilber, the Council Bluffs Chamber of Commerce and local officials did not give up and worked hard to make today’s announcement possible.”
12.17.2008	Congressman Steve King made the following statement today on former Iowa Governor Tom Vilsack’s appointment to Agriculture Secretary."I am pleased we will have another Agriculture Secretary from Iowa. Tom Vilsack and I served together in the Iowa Senate and later, as Governor, Tom Vilsack worked with me and our Iowa Congressional delegation. “We have a long history of serving together. Iowa will benefit from this decision."
12.17.2008	Congressman Steve King made the following statement in response to comments by Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA), a member of the Telecommunications and Internet Subcommittee on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, concerning the Fairness Doctrine. Rep. Eshoo said during a recent interview that she would be pushing for reinstatement of the Fairness Doctrine during the 111th Congress. “Allowing the government to regulate broadcast journalism and determine what on-air content is and is not ‘fair’ will take away our free speech and hurt our free flow of information. It is incredible that in today’s modern media age, where information is easily accessible in so many different forms, liberal Democrats want to squelch your First Amendment rights in favor of Chinese-style censorship. I will fight the re-implementation of the oxymoronically named Fairness Doctrine throughout the 111th Congress to ensure free and open political speech continues on America’s airwaves.”Background: Originally introduced in 1949, the Fairness Doctrine required radio and television stations to give equal time to conservative and liberal opinions on political issues. If stations failed to comply, they could face a penalty or have their broadcast licenses revoked. The Fairness Doctrine was eliminated in 1987. Congressman King is a co-sponsor of the Broadcasters Freedom Act, which would keep the Federal Communications Commission from reinstituting the Fairness Doctrine.
12.16.2008	Congressman Steve King has been named a “Guardian of Worker Freedom” by the Alliance for Worker Freedom (AWF). This year marks the fifth year AWF is presenting the award to members of Congress who vote in favor of worker’s rights and free and open labor markets on over 80% of the national policy issues tracked by AWF.“I am grateful to receive this award from the Alliance for Worker Freedom,” said Rep. King. “As a member of Congress, I will do all I can to protect the rights of the workers in my district. In the coming Congress, there will be attempts by labor union bosses and other special interest groups to take away worker freedoms, and my constituents can count on my continued support of worker freedom.”“Rep. King clearly knows the difference between being pro-worker freedom or a union-puppet,” said AWF Executive Director Brian M. Johnson. “When it comes to keeping American workers and our economy competitive, Rep. King is a tremendous advocate for a twenty-first century workforce.” 56 members of the U.S. House of Representatives and 12 U.S. Senators were presented with the “Guardian of Worker Freedom” award for their courageous votes on behalf of American workers.“By voting in favor of workers rights and freedoms, and against the corrupt agenda of Big Labor union bosses and an ever-expanding regulatory regime, these Congressmen deserve to be honored for siding with the rank-and-file American worker,” continued Johnson. “Rep. King is without a doubt a true guardian of worker freedom.” AWF is a non-partisan organization founded in 2003 to combat anti-worker legislation and promote free and open labor markets.
12.09.2008	Congressman Steve King made the following statement today about legislation that would provide a taxpayer-funded bailout package for the “Big Three” domestic auto manufacturers. The House may vote on the proposed legislation on Wednesday.“Over the past few weeks, the Big Three and the UAW have blitzed Capitol Hill and spent millions of dollars to lobby Congress for a taxpayer-funded bailout, yet refused to commit to any meaningful reforms. Giving Detroit and labor unions billions in taxpayer dollars without serious changes in their business practices is like giving an irresponsible teenager a credit card. American taxpayers should not have to pick up the tab for managerial mistakes, and Washington cannot afford to rescue every struggling sector of the American economy. “Creating a national car czar and giving the federal government a stake in American companies will damage free enterprise and harm taxpayers. Over 110,000 hard-working Americans are employed by automakers outside the Big Three, and these companies earn solid profits. Subsidizing the mistakes of poorly-managed automakers will penalize Americans working on successful production lines and send a message that our government supports market socialism over economic freedom. “If the Big Three and the UAW are not willing to make real concessions, such as self-providing some funding from excesses in pension funds, why should taxpayers help them? It is time for the UAW to put some skin in the game and make real concessions.”BACKGROUND: According to today’s Wall Street Journal, “under terms of the draft legislation, which continued to evolve Monday evening, the government would receive warrants for stock equivalent to at least 20% of the loans any company receives. The company also would have to agree to limits on executive compensation and dividend payments, much like those contained in the government's $700 billion rescue of the financial industry.” Additionally, the Journal states, “The program would be overseen by an official, tapped by President George W. Bush, whom congressional aides and lawmakers describe as an ‘auto czar.’ This person would act as a kind of trustee with authority to bring together labor, management, creditors and parts suppliers to negotiate a restructuring plan. He or she also would be able to review any transaction or contract valued at more than $25 million.” The article goes on to state that, “in a sign of how messy the reorganization could become, the United Auto Workers union is seeking to attach strings to any concessions it makes for the Big Three. Marc McQuillen, president of UAW Local 2404 in Charlotte, N.C., said the union is looking for an equity stake in GM and likely a seat on the company's board.”
11.21.2008	U.S. Congressman Steve King Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District http://www.house.gov/steveking/ _____________________________________________________________________________ FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: S. Brenna Findley November 21, 2008 Cell: 202.577.6452 KING: PROPOSED DHS HEAD SENDS WRONG MESSAGE WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Steve King released the following statement in response to the possible nomination of Governor Janet Napolitano of Arizona by President-elect Obama to head the Department of Homeland Security. King is the top Republican on the House Immigration Subcommittee. “If President-elect Obama chooses Governor Napolitano to be his top immigration enforcement official, it sends a message of lax law enforcement to those who would violate our immigration laws. Napolitano presides over the Arizona-Mexico border, which is by far the most porous southern border of the 50 States. More illegal aliens and drug traffickers cross through Arizona than any other State. As Governor, she opposed a border fence. When she had a chance to defend E-Verify from a ballot provision striking its requirement, she instead chose not to take a position. At a time where 9.5 million Americans are looking for work, this is the wrong time to encourage employers to hire illegal workers. Lax borders and hands-off worksite enforcement will take jobs away from American workers. Napolitano endorsed the Senate amnesty bill, and vetoed a bill that would prohibit taxpayers from being forced to pay for in-state tuition for illegal aliens. Governor Napolitano even vetoed a 2005 bill that declared English to be the official language of Arizona. I call upon the President-elect to nominate someone to head our top immigration enforcement agency who will enforce the law, secure the border, stop welfare to illegal aliens, support English as our official language and crack down on employers who ignore our immigration laws.” -30-
11.19.2008	U.S. Congressman Steve King Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District http://www.house.gov/steveking/ _____________________________________________________________________________ FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: S. Brenna Findley November 19, 2008 Cell: 202.577.6452 KING ANNOUNCES PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURATION TICKET REQUEST GUIDELINES WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman King today released the following guidelines for constituents seeking inauguration tickets: The presidential inauguration will be held on January 20, 2009. The number of tickets available is limited. All requests must be submitted to Congressman King’s Washington office by Friday, November 28. Recipients will be notified as soon as possible in December. All tickets must be picked up from Congressman King’s Washington, D.C. office in person with valid photo identification. Group representatives will not be allowed to pick up multiple tickets. Ticket requests may be made by calling Congressman Steve King’s Washington office at (202)225-4426. The name, address, cell phone number and email address of each person is required to place a request. Most of the tickets available are for standing room on the Capitol Grounds. If a seated ticket is needed, please provide the reason. Very few seated tickets are available. A few helpful hints: Security procedures require children capable of walking to have a ticket; strollers will not be permitted. Gates on the Capitol grounds officially open at 9:00 a.m. on Inauguration Day. As in the past, the area of the National Mall west of 4th Street will not require a ticket. However, due to the interest in the presidential inauguration, this area is expected to reach capacity quickly. -30-
11.19.2008	U.S. Congressman Steve King Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District http://www.house.gov/steveking/ _____________________________________________________________________________ FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: S. Brenna Findley November 19, 2008 Cell: 202.577.6452 KING OPPOSES DETROIT BAILOUT WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman King today released the following statement regarding Congress’ proposed bailout package for Detroit’s “big three” domestic auto manufacturers: “We need to stop spending billions upon billions in taxpayer money to bail out those who’ve made poor business decisions. As if the $700 billion bailout for the financial industry wasn’t bad enough, now Speaker Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Reid are going to completely disregard what few restrictions were placed upon the use of that money, bow to the demands of the auto unions, and send a big fat check to Detroit. We have several other automakers that have set up production lines here in the US. Automakers outside the Big Three make money at their US plants because they will not agree under threat of strike to gold plated benefits packages that would be destined to break their company. In the end, this bailout will only lead us down the path of having to entertain an endless number of requests from major players in every other sector of the American economy for similar aid.” The proposal to send $25 billion in aid to General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler is to be debated and voted upon this week in the Senate. If it passes it will be voted on in the House this week. The money for the auto bailout would be taken from the $700 billion bailout that Congress approved earlier in the fall to purchase “troubled” mortgage backed assets from banks and other financial institutions. -30-
11.03.2008	U.S. Congressman Steve King Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District http://www.house.gov/steveking/ _____________________________________________________________________________ FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: S. Brenna Findley November 3, 2008 Cell: 202.577.6452 KING ANNOUNCES END TO THREATENED POST OFFICE MOVE KIRON, IA— Congressman Steve King today announced that the United States Postal Service has abandoned its plans to move Sioux City’s Mail Processing Center to Sioux Falls, SD. King, Iowa’s Senators, and Siouxland’s business and community leaders had fought the USPS’s proposal to move the center since the plan was first announced in late 2005. King released the following statement regarding today’s announcement: “Mission Accomplished!! It did not take long for our bipartisan coalition of elected officials and community and business leaders to see that the USPS in Washington, D.C. hadn’t done its homework before proposing the move of Sioux City’s mail processing work to Sioux Falls. For three years we have been fighting to force the Postal Service to defend its claim that the move would somehow result in better service to Siouxland area residents and businesses and operational gains to the Postal Service, and today’s announcement proves that we were right to challenge the Postal Service’s flimsy assertions of cost savings and efficiency gains. “I am pleased that the Postal Service has relented in its attempt to strip Sioux City of its mail processing responsibilities, and I am proud of the work that this community has done to get us to this point. If nothing else, the past three years has proven once again that when Siouxlanders come together to achieve a goal, anything’s possible.” -30-
10.20.2008	U.S. Congressman Steve King Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District http://www.house.gov/steveking/ _____________________________________________________________________________ FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: S. Brenna Findley October 20, 2008 Cell: 202.577.6452 KING EARNS “TRUE BLUE” AWARD FRC Action’s “True Blue” Award for Consistent Support of Family SPENCER, IA— Congressman Steve King has been recognized as a “True Blue” Member of Congress by FRC Action and Focus on the Family Action for his commitment to the family. According to FRC Action, the award honors Members of Congress who have exhibited extraordinary leadership and commitment to the defense of family, faith, and freedom. The FRC Action scorecard covers votes in the 110th Congress. Recipients of the award voted consistently for pro-life and pro-family issues. These votes included: ü Defending Restrictions on Funding International Abortion Groupsü Human Cloning Prohibitionü Embryonic Stem Cell Research Enhancement Actü Thought Crimes Actü Protect Abstinence Program for HIV/AIDs Preventionü Funding D.C. Needle Exchange Programü Funding D.C. Gay Marriage Amendmentü Restrict Funding Planned Parenthood Amendmentü Prohibit Implementing the “Fairness Doctrine”ü Exploit Indian Gaming Regulatory Act “The Members of the 110th Congress who received this award have been consistent, stalwart allies of American families,” said FRC Action President Tony Perkins. “These Members are to be commended for supporting public policy that values human life, protects our religious liberties, and upholds the institutions of marriage and the family.” “I appreciate this award. I believe we must uphold the family because families instill values in our children. Our children and families are the basis for the future of our society,” said King.
10.14.2008	U.S. Congressman Steve King Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District http://www.house.gov/steveking/ _____________________________________________________________________________ FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: S. Brenna Findley October 14, 2008 Cell: 202.577.6452 KING: WE’RE FOURLANING HWY 20! DES MOINES, IA-- Congressman Steve King today announced that the Iowa DOT Commissioners have included an additional 12 miles of new four-lane U.S. Highway 20 in their amended Statewide Transportation Improvement Plan, commonly referred to as the Five Year Plan. The amended Five Year Plan now includes 46 new miles of four-lane U.S. 20 and was made official during the DOT Commission meeting in Muscatine earlier today. “For decades, many of us in Northwest Iowa have been working together to four-lane Highway 20,” said King. “We turned hope into a promise. A promise has now become a plan and soon it will be a reality.” The Five Year Plan now includes $48 million in funding for four-lane U.S. Highway 20 from U.S. 71 east to County Road N-14 (four-lane grading in 2011 and four-lane paving in 2013). This addition will complete the Moorland to Early section of four-lane U.S. 20 on new right of way. All other work on this section was included within the previous Five Year Plan. “We will see a completed four-lane highway from Moorland to Early by the end of 2013. Less than half the distance to the west four-lane connection, the Moville goal, will remain by the end of 2013,” said King. Preliminary activities are underway to set-up later construction on the Early to Moville segment. “The Iowa DOT has worked well with the communities along the corridor and has made a big commitment to the total project,” said King.
10.10.2008	Congressman Steve King made the following statement today after voting against a taxpayer-funded bailout package for the “Big Three” domestic auto manufacturers. “Today the House was given the opportunity to push for major reform of poorly-managed automakers and the UAW, but, instead, the House chose to kick the can down the road. Under Speaker Pelosi’s leadership, the House voted to pick up the tab for overpriced labor and managerial mistakes without meaningful concessions from either. The very business practices and labor agreements that led to this situation remain in place.“This bailout tells the Big Three and auto unions that taxpayers are willing to pay for Detroit’s poor decisions for several more months. What is going to change over the next few months? Other than more government intervention in the private sector, nothing will be different, and this same crew will be back on Capitol Hill asking Congress for more of your taxpayer money.“Without any concessions from automakers or the UAW, this bailout package sends a dangerous message that taxpayers will bail out any industry deemed too big to be allowed to fail. This looks like the beginning of an historic level of market socialism in America. I am extremely disappointed that liberals like Pelosi and Reid failed to press the Big Three and the UAW to put some skin in the game and make real concessions.”
09.29.2008	For Immediate Release
09.17.2008	U.S. Congressman Steve King _____________________________________________________________________________ FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: S. Brenna Findley September 2, 2008 Cell: 202.577.6452 **MEDIA ADVISORY** U.S. Congressman Steve King is returning from Iraq, Afghanistan and Georgia. He is available for interviews on September 3 and 4. Please call or email Brenna Findley to schedule an interview with Congressman King.
09.12.2008	U.S. Congressman Steve King _____________________________________________________________________________ FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: S. Brenna Findley September 12, 2008 Cell: 202.577.6452 WASHINGTON D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King is testifying today before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management to press for passage of legislation he authored to extend disaster assistance grants to small business owners affected by the recent floods. In late July, King introduced H.R. 6641, the Small Business Owner Disaster Relief Act of 2008. King brought the bill forward with the support of all of Iowa’s Congressmen. The bill would allow small business owners, defined as having a business with 25 employees or less, to receive emergency disaster grants from FEMA similar to the grants that are made available to individuals affected by a disaster. Like the grants to individuals, the small business grants would be capped at $28,800 and will be subject to a 25% state cost share. “The only link in the economic chain that does not qualify for grant relief is the business link. Every other sector qualifies for relief, yet we have turned our backs on flooded small businesses except to provide loans which add to their debt load,” said King. King introduced the legislation after visiting affected small business owners in eastern Iowa on a survey of the flood damage. King understands the problems of small business owners. He owned a small business that was devastated by flood waters in1993. “I believe that business recovery is essential to the success of the overall flood recovery effort. When small businesses recover, they are able to provide jobs and services once again to revitalize flooded communities,” said King.
08.14.2008	For Immediate Release Des Moines, IA—Today, U.S. Congressman Steve King called upon Americans to engage in the battle for energy solutions with him and Republican Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. On August 1st, Congress adjourned for five weeks, without passing legislation to allow domestic exploration for oil to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and lower gas and all energy prices. “We all know the old axiom--those who don’t vote have no right to complain about the actions of elected officials,” King said. “In this case, if Americans don’t make their voices heard by calling or visiting the Capitol to join in the Republican protest over San Francisco Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s refusal to allow a vote on expanding domestic oil production, the same applies. Don’t be surprised by $5 or $6 per gallon gas.”
08.12.2008	For Immediate Release
08.12.2008	For Immediate Release
08.11.2008	For Immediate Release KING RETURNS TO CAPITOL AS ENERGY PROTEST CONTINUES
08.06.2008	For Immediate Release
08.04.2008	For Immediate Release
08.01.2008	For Immediate Release King's New IDEA Bill Targets Employers of Illegals Washington, D.C.—U.S.Congressman Steve King introduced New IDEA, the Illegal Deduction Elimination Act today. The bipartisan bill he authored has 56 original cosponsors. New IDEA makes wages and benefits paid to illegal immigrants nondeductible for federal tax purposes. As written, New IDEA signals how serious the federal government is about cracking down on illegal labor and leveling the playing field for law-abiding employers. New IDEA gives employers “safe harbor” if they use the E-Verify program to confirm employment eligibility of their workers. E-Verify is an online system employers can use to check their employees, after hire, to make sure they are legally authorized to work. E-Verify is free, voluntary, and the best way to be sure new hires are legal and have valid Social Security numbers.
07.31.2008	For Immediate Release
07.29.2008	For Immediate Release
07.28.2008	For Immediate Release
07.24.2008	For Immediate Release Rep. Steve King, Ranking Member of the Immigration Subcommittee issued the following statement: “When an illegal immigrant gets a job in this country using the identification documents and or Social Security Number of another person, it is a crime. And the other person is the victim of that crime. For far too many years employers have gotten the message that they can hire illegal immigrant workers with few or no consequences. ICE worksite enforcement actions like the one in Postville put those employers, and the illegal workers themselves, on notice that if they choose to violate the law, they are subject to prosecution.”
06.26.2008	For Immediate Release
05.22.2008	For Immediate Release
05.14.2008	For Immediate Release
05.06.2008	For Immediate Release
04.15.2008	For Immediate Release
04.03.2008	For Immediate Release
03.07.2008	For Immediate Release
03.05.2008	For Immediate Release King: Liberal Budgets = Giant Tax Increases
02.27.2008	For Immediate Release February 27, 2008 King Mourns Death of William F. Buckley, An American Conservative Leader "William F. Buckley was a giant in conservative thought and a fountain that poured forth the foundations of our beliefs-the same beliefs that have sustained our country since its establishment." "Buckley had the keenest of intellects among critical thinkers. He challenged everyone persistently, relentlessly and tirelessly." "I've read Buckley's National Review magazine cover-to-cover for more than 30 years. It has surprised me to learn how many of my colleagues in the United States Congress have done the same." "William F. Buckley was a profound influence on every one of our lives." Iowa Congressman Steve King is a leading member of the House Judiciary Committee and is Chairman of the famed Conservative Opportunity Society for Congressional conservatives.
02.14.2008	For Immediate Release
02.08.2008	For Immediate Release February 8, 2008 King meets with Iowa Agriculture Secretary Northey and Deputy Secretary Claghorn in Washington D.C. During today’s meeting, the trio discussed the Farm Bill, environmental and water regulations, payment limitations, bio-fuel production, as well as other issues important to Iowa agriculture. "Iowa is an international leader in agriculture. To be sure the concerns of Iowa farmers are addressed, we have to work together so that Washington-types tap into the knowledge of local issues only farmers themselves have," said Congressman King. "I work with Secretary Northey and Deputy Secretary Claghorn to do exactly that. I can’t think of any better representatives for Iowa’s farmers than Northey and Claghorn. Working together with them, we will get a better deal for Iowa’s farmers."
02.07.2008	For Immediate Release February 7, 2008 King Calls on Senate to Pass a Bill That Stops Illegals from Getting Economic Stimulus "Before any stimulus package is signed into law, we must protect the American taxpayer’s hard earned money from being given away to illegal aliens. There are simple changes the Senate can make to the language of this economic stimulus package to stop such fraud. The Senate needs to specify that only one rebate check be allowed per social security number." "Today, Senators have an opportunity to amend their economic stimulus package that we did NOT have in the House of Representatives. The Pelosi Congress blocked all attempts to amend the bill." "There are companies who employ multiple employees using the same social security number. Illegals commonly use the same (stolen) social security number dozens even hundreds of times. There are, at least, 11,000 employees using work social security numbers who are working for the government!" "It is questionable economics to send checks to people and ask them to spend the money to stimulate the economy. It is folly, and an insult to American workers, for the government to send multiple checks to those whom we know are working here illegally." King is the top Republican for Immigration on the House Judiciary Committee.
02.05.2008	For Immediate Release The True Blue award honors Members of Congress who have exhibited extraordinary leadership and commitment in the defense of life, family, faith, and freedom. These votes included: "The Members of the 110th Congress who received this award have been consistent, stalwart allies of American families," said FRC Action President Tony Perkins. "I applaud congressman King for defending pro-family and pro-life policies that have been under attack this past year. Values voters should be encouraged by Congressman King and his colleagues who have shown a commitment to protecting and strengthening the family." King said, "As Iowans, we know family values are the very foundation of our culture. I work in Washington to fight for our families and will continue to do whatever I can to stop those who want to shatter the moral foundations of our society."
01.29.2008	For Immediate Release January 29, 2008 While King supported passage of the bill, he warned that Congress had missed an opportunity to inject real growth into the American economy. King said, "Although I believe the business tax cuts contained in this bill will do much to encourage business expansion and job and economic growth, the rebates-based ‘stimulus’ will do little more than provide our economy with a ‘sugar high’." "We have been down this road before. In 2001, we enacted a similar rebates-based stimulus package, and yet we failed to see sustained growth in our economy until we passed additional tax cuts in 2003—cuts in taxes like capital gains and dividends that were rightly aimed at encouraging investment. Until we make these tax cuts permanent, we will continue to see volatility." "The antics of the Pelosi Congress have assured American business owners that their bottom line is at risk of the ever increasing tax bill that will follow the expansive increases in the size and scope of government that the liberals under Pelosi are working toward." "We voted to spend upwards of $145 billion today to stimulate the economy, but once this sugar high wears off, we will have to come back and make the Bush tax cuts permanent to grow our economy in the long term, not just give it a quick shot in the arm."
01.28.2008	For Immediate Release King Statement on President Bush’s Last State of the Union Address "During the president’s speech tonight, it struck me that we cannot view his last year in the Presidency without recognizing that his term is defined by America’s war against Islamic Jihad. He continues to lead the entire nation to rise to the challenges we continue to face." "The president addressed our security and reported good news out of Iraq and the acceptable news from Afghanistan. No one would have dreamed in 2001 that this nation would not be attacked again by Al-Qaeda. But as of this night, that remains to be true." "The Bush tax cuts of 2001 and especially the pro-growth tax cuts of 2003 set this nation on an unprecedented run of growth. Now, as the president said tonight, if we do not make the 2003 tax cuts permanent, millions upon millions of Americans will soon see their taxes rise." "President Bush showed our whole nation the best of his character in his last State of the Union Address. We got to hear his honor, dignity and resolute determination to protect our nation."
01.25.2008	For Immediate Release
01.23.2008	For Immediate Release
12.19.2007	For Immediate Release December 19, 2007 King Pushes for Congressional Line-Item Veto Expected Passage of Near Trillion Dollar Spending Bill Brings Attention to Broken Budget Process The CUT (Cut the Unnecessary Tab) Resolution or H.Res. 776, would update the House Rules to require a quarterly rescission bill, open for any amendment, to cut unspent funds for the ongoing fiscal year. The resolution appears in sharp relief to the Pelosi Omnibus bill expected to pass today. The omnibus appropriations bill will cost the American taxpayer more than $900 billion, including 11,000 earmarks totaling $20 billion. King stated, "The Congressional budget process is set-up for blind, big-government accounting. We introduced the CUT Resolution to force all Representatives to take responsibility for every taxpayer dollar spent. There will be no more hiding from their responsibility to America. Either vote Yea or Nay." "The CUT Resolution is a line-item veto for every Member of the House, and it will open the budget to the public, leaving nothing behind closed doors. Any blogger, or any citizen, will be able to search the budget for fat and petition their Representative to cut it. CUT will put fiscal responsibility back into the federal budget," added King. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) is a Member of the RSC Executive Board, Chairman of the Conservative Opportunity Society and a Member of the Small Business Subcommittee on Finance and Tax.
12.19.2007	For Immediate Release December 19, 2007 King Effort to Extend Children’s Health Insurance Passes Congress "Today is a victory for responsible government. By extending the current SCHIP program through March of 2009, we can ensure the clamor of presidential politics doesn’t adversely affect the long term decisions we make for children’s health insurance," said King. Since July of 2007, when the debate over rewriting the federal children’s health insurance law started, King has advocated for an 18-month extension of the law. Congressman King helped write the Iowa state law that created the HAWK-i. "Speaker Pelosi tried to use SCHIP to push her San Francisco values on the rest of the country. Pelosi tried to make it easier for illegal aliens to get SCHIP and Medicaid benefits, increase the cigarette tax to more than $1 a pack, push more than 2.1 million children off of private health insurance onto government rolls, and force taxpayers to pay for the health insurance of well-off families. And of course, Pelosi was determined to use SCHIP to lay the cornerstone of socialized medicine. The SCHIP extension that I’ve supported and that passed Congress yesterday will ensure taxpayers get a better deal and will ensure current SCHIP beneficiaries continue to receive benefits. I am happy that I finally had the opportunity to support a reasonable SCHIP extension," King concluded.
12.12.2007	For Immediate Release December 12, 2007 King Reacts to Nine "NO" Votes on Christmas Resolution Appearing this morning on the Fox News Channel’s Fox and Friends, King said, "The [nine] naysayers didn’t make it to the floor to debate. I would like to know how they could vote Yes on Islam, Yes on the Indian Religions and No on Christianity when the foundation of this nation and our American culture is Christianity…I think there’s an assault on Christianity in America." -For Video, follow this link or type this address into your web browser -http://www.youtube.com/RepSteveKing The nine Members voting NO were Rep. Gary Ackerman (D-NY), Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Rep. Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA), Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA), Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA), Rep. Pete Stark (D-CA), and Rep. Lynn Woolsey (D-CA). None of the nine voted against resolutions honoring the Islamic holiday of Ramadan and the Hindu holiday of Diwali.
11.30.2007	For Immediate Release November 30, 2007 King Statement on Death of Pro-Life Leader, Congressman Henry Hyde "Henry Hyde was a living inspiration for all, regardless of our political affiliation. Congressman Hyde was the consummate statesman who stood elegantly on the principles of American values." "He was an enduring friend and inspiration to me. As chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Henry Hyde’s example is the single most significant reason that I serve on the House Judiciary Committee today." "Henry Hyde has set the standard for those of us who follow in his footsteps. His legacy will remain for the duration of the republic." Born in 1924, Rep. Henry Hyde (R-IL) served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1975 through 2006, serving on the House Judiciary Committee throughout his entire time in Congress. He chaired the Judiciary Committee from 1995 to 2001 and also served as Chairman of the House International Relations Committee from 2001 until his retirement last year. Hyde is often best known for leading the passage of the "Hyde Amendment", which prohibits federal funding of abortion. On November 5, President Bush awarded Hyde the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the very highest honor the President can bestow on an American citizen.
11.17.2007	For Immediate Release November 17, 2007 King Celebrates National Adoption Day, Congratulates "Angel in Adoption" from Holstein November is National Adoption Month and November 17th is the eighth annual National Adoption Day. These are opportunities to raise awareness of the 114,000 children across America in foster care who are awaiting permanent, loving homes. "Every child needs a loving home. All those who help during the process of adoption and foster care are vital to the cause of providing love for these children. It would be hard to offer too much thanks for their efforts," said King. To honor tireless adoption and foster care advocates, the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute stages an awards ceremony and gala dinner for "Angels in Adoption". This year, along with more than 180 Angels, Dave and Judy Ehler of Holstein were honored at the Angels in Adoption gala event in Washington, DC on October 4th. Many Angels in Adoption honorees are known nationally. At the gala this year were Patti LaBelle, Grammy Award winning artist, Alonzo Mourning, Professional Basketball Player – Founder of Alonzo Mourning Charities, Inc., and Marcus Samuelsson, Critically Acclaimed Chef and Author. Other former "Angels" include First Lady Laura Bush, Jane Seymour, Muhammad Ali, Steven Curtis Chapman and Bruce Willis. Dave and Judy Ehler have been adoptive parents for 19 years and foster parents for 13 years. Since 1994, in addition to their adopted children, the Ehlers have provided their love and support for 25 foster children in their Holstein home. The Ehlers are also invested in respite care. Allowing other foster parents to travel, Dave and Judy look after their children. "Dave and Judy are selfless with their time and love to their adoptive and foster children. Nowadays, all of us are looking for heroes and role models. The Ehlers are exactly that. I hope people will follow their genuine and worthy example. On behalf of Iowans, thank you Dave and Judy," added King. Congressman King is a member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, which uses its voice to improve the lives of the most vulnerable children and to recognize individuals who have done the same. Every year, King nominates one person or family from Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District an "Angel in Adoption". The husband of this year’s "Angel" couple, Dave Ehler, serves as Congressman King’s District Director. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is a 501(c)3 nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of orphans and foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes through adoption. CCAI’s goal is the elimination of the barriers that hinder these children from realizing their basic right of a family. CCAI does not receive any government funding but relies on the generous support of foundations, corporations, and individuals to accomplish their mission. For more information visit http://www.ccainstitute.org/.
11.14.2007	For Immediate Release King Calls for Immediate Action as Illegal Alien Employed by CIA Pleads Guilty to National Security Breach “President Bush should order a complete re-verification of every single federal employee’s citizenship. Months ago, I wrote the President and Speaker Pelosi suggesting exactly this,” stated King. The former CIA employee, Nada Prouty, who emigrated from Lebanon in 1989, is suspected of having ties to Hezbollah, the Iranian-backed terror group based in Lebanon. “Amnesty advocates cavalierly ignore the weaknesses of our national security. They promote weakening our immigration laws that are already Swiss cheese. Building the border fence and enforcing the Rule-of-Law are the only steps we should consider in Congress. With government intelligence agencies already being duped into employing illegals, any amnesty proposal would guarantee the end of national security as we know it,” King added. Earlier this year, King, the top Republican on the House Immigration Subcommittee, highlighted a little-noticed government report showing that 11,000 local, state and federal employees did not have legal immigration status. Previous studies by the Social Security Administration’s Inspector General also showed that more than 5,000 Department of Defense employees were illegally in the country.
11.09.2007	For Immediate Release November 9, 2007 King Opposes $82.5 Billion Tax Increase "This bill would pay for a tax cut with a tax increase- $82.5 billion in tax increases including a marriage penalty. That is inconsistent with American values. We should REPEAL the Alternative Minimum Tax and move forward towards a tax policy that rewards people who work. Coming from San Francisco, Speaker Nancy Pelosi is leading an elitist tax policy based on class envy. That’s wrong and it’s not in the tradition of our American Constitutional republic. This nation should be brought together by our tax policy, not torn apart" said King. The AMT was tacked onto the federal tax code by Congress in 1969 to target 155 rich Americans who otherwise, because of a twist in the tax code, would not have had to pay federal taxes. Now, almost 40 years later, the "tax-the-rich" AMT will hit 25 million middle-class families. Unless prompt and bi-partisan action is taken, these middle-class families will be hit with a massive penalty by the April 15, 2008 tax filing deadline.
11.09.2007	For Immediate Release November 9, 2007 King Votes to Uphold Religious Freedom over Liberal Agenda Written by Congressman Barney Frank, the bill would grant a cause of action against any employer who discriminates for sexual orientation and gender identity reasons. King stated, "The problem is, an employer cannot know a job applicant’s sexuality or their sexual orientation. It can only be self alleged, sometimes after the hiring decision is made. It is an affront to the Constitution and the Rule of Law to hand this carrot to the trial lawyers. No one should be held responsible and sued for thought crimes. ENDA will result in thousands of lawsuits to punish employers for what disgruntled employees think they thought about their sex life. That’s a part of life that should be private and remain private. When that happens, it is impossible to discriminate." "The flood of lawsuits that would be caused by ENDA would cripple small businesses who could not afford to defend themselves from the junk lawsuits of overly aggressive trial lawyers," added King. "Liberal Speaker Pelosi is working to impose her liberal worldview on the rest of America. She’s a culture warrior from San Francisco and seems to think the radical 60’s never ended. Any bill, like ENDA, that turns its nose up at religious freedom and puts personal behavior on par with race, color, religion, sex and national origin, should never be allowed to become law."
11.08.2007	For Immediate Release November 8, 2007 King Votes to Open South American Markets to Iowa Farmers "Iowa farmers are the best in the world and deserve every opportunity to sell their products globally. This free trade agreement, like others, will make any product we export to Peru duty-free. No trade barriers, just straight competition," said King. U.S. Trade Ambassador Susan Schwab led negotiations for free trade agreements (FTAs) with Peru, Columbia, Panama and South Korea. The Peru FTA is the first to receive a vote in U.S. House of Representatives. "If it weren’t for Trade Ambassador Susan Schwab, the FTA would still be on the shelf and tariffs would still keep Iowa’s goods and services out of Peru," King added. "I’ve worked with Ambassador Schwab for some time and encourage her to promote the other agreements she’s already negotiated. When these trade barriers are brought down, Iowans benefit." According to Department of Commerce statistics, Iowa's export shipments last year totaled $8.4 billion to 186 foreign countries and territories. From 2002 to 2006, Iowa's export shipments grew 77 percent. Small and medium-sized businesses in Iowa accounted for 81% of Iowa’s export shipments. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) serves on the House Agriculture and Small Business Committees, and he is the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee’s Immigration panel.
11.01.2007	For Immediate Release November 1, 2007 King Seeks Applicants for Internships While most Capitol Hill internships never go beyond clerical duties, King is interested in developing interns’ skills and experiences both in and out of the office. Interns may become involved in public relations, learn about the day to day operations of the legislative branch, and become actively involved in personal policy interests. Because Congressman King is a very active member of three committees, Judiciary, Agriculture, Small Business, there are many opportunities for interns to gain substantive, real-world experience working in a fast-paced and challenging environment. King’s interns are often asked to attend briefings, hearings, and press conferences and will also interact with the Congressman and his staff on a daily basis. Interested applicants are asked to send a resume and a cover letter to the attention of Bentley Graves at This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it "> ' ); document.write( addy25460 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> Bentley.graves@mail.house.gov ' ); //--> This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it ' ); //--> or by fax to 202-225-3193. The deadline for submission is November 19, 2007. To find out more about the spring internships, visit www.house.gov/steveking/ or call Congressman King at (202) 225-4426.
11.01.2007	For Immediate Release
10.31.2007	For Immediate Release October 31, 2007 King Applauds Choice of Nominee for Agriculture Secretary "I am very pleased that Governor Schafer is the President’s nominee to lead the administration’s agriculture policy. As Congress continues work on an updated Farm Bill, our coordination with the U.S. Department of Agriculture remains vital. The future of farming, including our bio-fuels industry, in Iowa and the entire country is being formed right now. Considering the high stakes, I hope the Senate moves quickly to confirm Governor Schafer," said King.
10.26.2007	For Immediate Release
10.24.2007	For Immediate Release October 24, 2007 King Opposes Newest Senate Amnesty Attempt Scheduled for Vote TODAY "The DREAM Act is amnesty, it’s a bad bill with a nice sounding title. To grant amnesty is to pardon immigration lawbreakers and reward them with the objective of their crime. This particular amnesty act is like someone without a ticket jumping the fence at an Iowa State football game, who instead of being escorted out of the stadium by security, that person is escorted to a seat on the 50 yard line and handed lifetime season tickets," Three times already this year attempts to grant comprehensive amnesty to illegal aliens failed in the U.S. Senate after Americans mobilized by the millions in opposition. The DREAM Act would grant amnesty to illegal aliens and also give them in-state tuition discounts. Law-abiding foreign students and American citizens from other states would still have to pay full tuition. Children of Iraq war veterans would also not receive the preferential treatment of illegals covered under the DREAM Act. "I am hopeful that our Iowa Senators will vote against this bill. They have demonstrated, on occasion, their opposition to amnesty. After comprehensive amnesty failed earlier this summer, the Senate must be "dreaming" to consider giving amnesty and discounted tuition to illegals. The DREAM Act is amnesty and should be voted down," Congressman Steve King (R-IA) is the top Republican on the Immigration Subcommittee of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee.
10.22.2007	For Immediate Release October 22, 2007 King Challenges Officials Who Attempt To Remove God from U.S. Capitol "The words "In God We Trust" are written above the Speaker in the U.S. House of Representatives. Some believe the religious foundations of our republic should be scrubbed and eliminated from history. They are even trying reference to God out of Congress. We must not allow our nation’s heritage and values to be undermined," Americans may buy a flag flown over the Capitol with a personal message to be printed on an accompanying certificate. In one recent case, however, an Eagle Scout bought a flag and requested a personal message be printed on the certificate to read, "This flag was flown in honor of Marcel Larochelle, my grandfather, for his dedication and love of God, Country and family." But the Acting Architect of the Capitol, Stephen T. Ayers, censored the word "God" from the request. After loud protest and a proposed law to protect the religious freedoms of the young Eagle Scout, on October 11, 2007, the Architect of the Capitol reversed his policy banning God from flag certificates. King concluded, "Religious freedom is the right of every American, guaranteed to us by the Constitution. Neither the Architect of the Capitol nor anyone should ever be allowed to trample those freedoms. This country exists under God. That is a principle worth fighting for."
10.18.2007	For Immediate Release October 18, 2007 King Eager to Pass Responsible Children’s Health Insurance Law, Pelosi-Culver Bill Fails "SCHIP and Iowa’s "hawk-i" should put poor kids first. Unless Governor Culver and Speaker Pelosi want to lay the cornerstone for socialized healthcare, why would they avoid the truth about this bill while trying to inflate SCHIP to include kids who already have insurance and to even include illegal alien adults?" King added, "If this inflated SCHIP proposal were not stopped today, it would have: SCHIP was created by the Republican Congress as part of welfare reform. As welfare dependents were moved from welfare to work, SCHIP was designed to cover the children of the working poor who were earning too much to qualify for Medicaid. "After all the posturing and theatrics, I predict we will get a better deal for poor kids and taxpayers. My goals for SCHIP are - first, require enrollment of 90% of eligible kids before benefits can be expanded above 200% of poverty; second, protect current laws for citizenship verification. If a final bill gives benefits to those under 300% of poverty, and if we reestablish citizenship requirements, the savings to taxpayers will be measured in the billions. After all, every dollar added to this current program ends up as a national debt that the same kids we are trying to help will eventually have to pay,"
10.15.2007	For Immediate Release
10.12.2007	For Immediate Release
10.11.2007	For Immediate Release
10.01.2007	For Immediate Release
09.27.2007	For Immediate Release
09.25.2007	For Immediate Release
09.24.2007	For Immediate Release September 24, 2007 King Welcomes Bill Anderson to Sioux City Office Most recently, Mr. Anderson worked for Senator Chuck Grassley as a Regional Director. Already intimately involved in the Sioux City community, Anderson has deep Siouxland roots where he is a member of the American Legion Post No. 64, and the Siouxland Right to Life. He also served in the Iowa National Guard for nearly 10 years and currently serves on the board of the Iowa Christian Alliance. King noted, "Bill has served Siouxland for years and is an excellent addition to our team. His experience and commitment to our fundamental American values is invaluable. Bill already rolled-up his sleeves and got to work last week. I’m glad to have him on board." Siouxlanders are encouraged to call Congressman King at (712) 224-4692 to convey their views on legislation or for assistance with the federal government. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) represents Western Iowa in the United States Congress and sits on the Agriculture, Judiciary and Small Business Committees.
09.21.2007	For Immediate Release
09.20.2007	For Immediate Release
09.13.2007	For Immediate Release
09.06.2007	For Immediate Release
09.04.2007	For Immediate Release King Sees Nussle as Best Man for White House Budget Chief King commented, "For years now, I have worked with Jim Nussle in public and in private. I know no one in America more qualified to be the White House budget chief. For that matter, I know no one in America more effective to manage the federal budget." "I am pleased that Jim has been confirmed by the Senate so we can get down to the business of protecting the pocketbooks of the American taxpayer and fighting for smaller government and a balanced budget," concluded King. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) represents Western Iowa in the United States Congress and sits on the Agriculture, Judiciary and Small Business Committees.
08.30.2007	For Immediate Release
08.27.2007	For Immediate Release King Agrees FairTax Reform Must Start with the Grassroots Washington, D.C.— Congressman Steve King today noted a column by Doug Patton answering critics of the Fair Tax. The People Must Demand the Fair Tax
07.27.2007	For Immediate Release
07.27.2007	For Immediate Release
07.23.2007	For Immediate Release
07.20.2007	For Immediate Release
07.18.2007	For Immediate Release
07.12.2007	For Immediate Release
07.12.2007	For Immediate Release
07.12.2007	For Immediate Release
06.28.2007	For Immediate Release
06.26.2007	For Immediate Release
06.25.2007	For Immediate Release
06.21.2007	For Immediate Release
06.19.2007	For Immediate Release
06.19.2007	For Immediate Release
06.14.2007	For Immediate Release
06.12.2007	For Immediate Release
06.12.2007	For Immediate Release
06.12.2007	For Immediate Release
06.08.2007	For Immediate Release
06.06.2007	For Immediate Release
06.05.2007	For Immediate Release
05.29.2007	For Immediate Release
05.22.2007	For Immediate Release King: If You Want To Euthanize the Rule of Law, Support the Senate Amnesty Bill "Americans understand this bill’s amnesty would undermine our values and principles. With each new detail we read in this proposal, it becomes more outrageous. The security measures are all premised on the idea that even though we are not enforcing the law today, somehow by passing amnesty to enough people there will be no one left to enforce the laws against," said King. He concluded, "On day one, this bill would legalize nearly every single illegal alien. Criminal aliens would be legalized if a rushed, 24-hour background check didn’t turn-up a conviction. Gang members would be welcome if they only renounced their gang membership. The current law of the land, a Congressional mandate to build 854 miles of fence, would be cut to only 370 of the 2000 mile border." Congressman Steve King (Iowa-5) is the top Republican on the Immigration Subcommittee of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee. He is also Chairman of the innovative Conservative Opportunity Society, founded by Newt Gingrich.
05.16.2007	For Immediate Release King Denounces Senate Amnesty “Bargain” That “Many Senators claim that their deal renews respect for the Rule of Law. Let me respond to that absurd statement by stating clearly, you cannot simultaneously tear down and rebuild one of our Constitutional principles. I took an oath to uphold the Constitution and the Rule of Law. The price for amnesty is the sacrifice of the Rule of Law,” stated King. King concluded, “Each one of these Senators should wear a scarlet letter “A” for amnesty.” Congressman Steve King (Iowa-5) is Ranking Republican on the Immigration Subcommittee of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee.
05.10.2007	For Immediate Release King to Democrats: The Definition of Amnesty Remains The Same Washington D.C. –As Ranking Republican of the Immigration Subcommittee, Congressman Steve King initiated a rarely used process that resulted in yesterday’s minority-led hearing. Titled “The U.S. Economy, U.S. Workers and Immigration Reform, the hearing was comprised of one panel of witnesses named by Republicans. “The Democrats and the Administration want to redefine the meaning of amnesty for illegal aliens. If that isn’t dubious enough, the Democrats on the Judiciary Committee have rejected minority witnesses so that nothing but a pro-Amnesty view can be heard,” said King. Republicans initiated this minority-led hearing because they were denied a witness by Democrats at a hearing last Thursday, May 3, 2007. The rules of the House of Representatives allow the minority party to request an entire hearing for their own witnesses according to House Rule XI clause (2)(J)(1). King explained, “When the Democrats and the Administration try to dominate every aspect of the legislative process, you start to hear some odd things. When Democrats packed the hearing with their witnesses last week, their opinions were unchallenged by facts. One of their witnesses claimed that flooding the workforce with cheap labor helps raise wages. He might as well have said that lifting more weight makes you lighter!” “Every amnesty apologist, Democrats or Administration officials, should know that we will counter their attempts to obscure the truth. The American people will not accept amnesty. And the definition of amnesty remains the same: to pardon immigration lawbreakers and reward them with the objective of their crime,” concluded King.
05.09.2007	For Immediate Release King Votes to Shield Western Iowans from Massive Tax Increase “I believe in an ever-broadening American middle-class. If we want to continue the success of the great American experiment, we must reject big budgets. I wish Democrats would be honest enough to recognize that their budget is like a McDonald’s meal, and they are saying – Super size me!” said King. The Democrat budget resolution allows automatic tax increases when Republican tax cuts expire in coming years. These Democrat tax increases include the death tax, the marriage penalty, slashed child tax credits and income taxes. By ignoring automatic tax increases, Pelosi-led Democrats claim to balance the budget by 2012 without actually voting to raise taxes. The Pelosi Budget also significantly raises both discretionary and mandatory spending at a much higher rate than inflation. The Democrat federal budget passed the House of Representatives yesterday by a vote of 212-207. ““Tax and Spend Democrats” are back. Super-sizing taxes and punishing hard-working taxpayers will not build a strong America,” stated King.
05.03.2007	For Immediate Release King Supports Equal Rights, Opposes Thought Crimes Bill Washington D.C. - Congressman Steve King today voted to uphold the rights of all Americans by voting “No” to a bill also known as the “Thought Crimes Act”. The bill, officially known as the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 237-180. King offered multiple amendments to change the bill. All were prevented from receiving a vote by the Democrat majority. One King amendment would have changed the title of the bill to The Local Law Enforcement Thought Crimes Act. The bill would require law enforcement to ascertain the thoughts and motivations of an accused criminal at the time the crime was committed. “The devil is always in the details. If this bill were to become law, Christians and adherents of many other faiths could be hauled into court simply for their traditional views on morality. The bill federalizes every state and local crime, so long as the crime was possibly motivated by hate, but only if it is committed against special groups of people. We have arrived at an unconstitutional and perilous future of policing the thoughts of citizens. Even Thomas Jefferson warned of this Constitutional breach,” said, King. King cited President Thomas Jefferson’s letter to the Danbury Baptist Association in 1802, often used by liberals to support banning religion from the public square. The same liberals do not, however, recognize another part of the letter where Jefferson wrote, “…the legitimate powers of government reach actions only and not opinions,…” “Democrats not only want to raise the severity of criminal punishment, but they also want to decide what people should be allowed to think. Anyone who has read George Orwell’s 1984, will recognize this exact approach to governing as what he called “crimethink”, or any thought not in line with the regime. I will never support any bill that allows the prosecution of thought crimes. This challenges everything good that America represents,” stated King.
05.03.2007	For Immediate Release King Defends Taxpayers and Head Start Providers Washington D.C. - Congressman Steve King voted last night to keep English as our national language, and to protect local community and faith-based groups from being forced to ignore their own faithful values and mission. King has voted every year for Head Start since being elected to Congress. But this year he voted “NO” on a Head Start bill written by Democrats with new harmful language. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 365-48. Head Start is a program for pre-Kindergarten youth that is carried out by contract with local community providers throughout the United States. The bill debated in the House does not protect the hiring-rights of faith-based service providers, and would also use taxpayer funds for bi-lingual education. “Thousands of kids are helped by Head Start to develop at a young age. Unfortunately, in recent years, many administrators have begun to discriminate against faith-based service providers and would prefer to ignore their contributions to the community. When the government wants to support superior services to citizens, young and old, faith-based groups must be welcome at the table. They are the fabric of this nation,” said King. The bill would also direct Head Start to use taxpayer funding for bilingual education. American taxpayers would be forced to pay for bilingual classes for students who do not speak English well. King supports teaching in English to all students. King offered two amendments making English the only language for instruction. Both amendments were rejected by the Democrat majority. “Punishing faith-based groups with discrimination and mandating bilingual education are not appropriate ways to spend taxpayer dollars. This bill also calls for an unaffordable expansion of Head Start to serve infants and parents. It is especially vital that we reject any cynical attempt to mold otherwise important legislation into an ideological weapon. Head Start is a worthy program, but I cannot support it if it rejects English language instruction and First Amendment rights, stated King.”
05.02.2007	For Immediate Release King Supports Troops Battling Jihadi Terrorists, Rejects Democrat Surrender Washington D.C. - Congressman Steve King voted “NO” on a Democrat effort to override the President’s veto of a bill that would set a date certain for defeat in Iraq. The Speaker Pelosi-led effort to override the President’s veto failed to achieve the required two-thirds majority by a vote of 222-203. The Democrat-controlled House must now rewrite the war funding bill so it will pass the House, send it to the Senate and then back to the President in order to avoid further weakening of our military. “As Nancy Pelosi attempts to force surrender upon our troops, the war against radical Jihadists rages on. Pelosi marched her troops to the floor of Congress to attempt a hopelessly failed mission. There was zero chance that Congress would override the President’s veto, yet she insisted on a frontal assault on the authority of the Commander-in-Chief. General Petraeus, the top commander in Iraq, is far more likely to succeed in Iraq than General Pelosi was in her attempt to override a veto. Veteran groups such as the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars understand the ongoing war and support the President’s veto. But Pelosi and Democrats can’t agree on whether a war exists at all, and they continue to let our armed forces go unfunded,” said King. King further clarified the actions of House Democrats, “If Pelosi and her Democrats were truly serious about funding our troops, why did they wait three weeks to finalize their surrender bill and then, with their final product in hand, wait another six days to send it to the President? Of course, we now know that Pelosi was never serious about funding our troops. When I hear her and many Democrats say they support the troops and their commanders on the ground, I no longer believe them.” American troops are currently engaged in battle against al-Qaeda terrorists and insurgents in Iraq as well as Afghanistan. General Petraeus last week briefed Members of Congress about the ongoing war. Speaker Pelosi and many Democrats did not show-up. “General Petraeus clearly stated the perils of surrender to all the Members of Congress who would listen. He emphasized the horrible potential of Iran’s involvement in Iraq. A nuclear Iran which could control 42.6% of the globe’s exported oil would strangle the economies of the free world until we could no longer afford to defend ourselves. Supporting General Petraeus and funding our troops and their mission is our only option,” stated King.
04.26.2007	For Immediate Release Amnesty – “To pardon immigration lawbreakers and reward them with the objective of their crime”
04.20.2007	For Immediate Release King Secures Federal Investment for Future of Missouri River “Outdated and inaccurate data on the Missouri River floodplain chokes-off economic development projects and is responsible for unnecessary flood insurance premiums for many,” said King. “This investment will help get government out of the way and let businesses and families realize their plans for prosperity.” The Water Resources Development Act of 2007 is legislation that authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to complete river and harbor projects and provides funding for the development and conservation of water resources. The legislation has passed the House and awaits action in the Senate. Due to changes in land use and development along the Missouri River, new detailed flood plain information is needed for the 313-mile span of the Missouri River from Rulo, Nebraska to Yankton, South Dakota. The current floodplain management plan, the Lower Missouri River Flow Frequency Study, was created from information gathered 28 years ago and does not meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program. “In Western Iowa, we are blessed with the Missouri River. Many of our ancestors depended on the river for their prosperity. For the next generation of Iowans we must do our part to ensure that the Missouri continues to offer its opportunities as it did to us and previous generations,” stated King.
04.18.2007	For Immediate Release Partial-birth abortion is a procedure when an unborn baby at four to nine months is delivered partway outside the mother before being killed by puncturing her skull and removing the brain. “The grisly murder of infants through this heinous procedure has finally come to an end. This decision results from years of work by millions of Americans who compassionately stand up for the rights of the unborn and for the protection of mothers. As a newly minted Member of Congress in 2003, the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act was one of the first bills I helped move through Congress,” said King. Congressman King is a pro-life advocate in Congress where he is a member of the Pro-Life Caucus and co-sponsor of many bills promoting the protection of human life. Expressing hope, King stated, “The Supreme Court decision is confirmation that our work here in Congress for the American people makes a difference. However difficult, however time-consuming, however slow the pace, it makes a difference to millions of mothers, fathers and especially their babies.” “A genuine culture of life is my hope for this country. And with today’s decision to uphold a ban on partial-birth abortions, we are one step closer to joining together to make that dream a reality,” concluded King.
04.13.2007	For Immediate Release King Underlines Four-Lane Highway 20 As Kiron, IA - U.S. Congressman Steve King reemphasized a four-lane US 20 through northwestern Iowa as his top transportation priority. Today’s announcement coincides with “Time Four 20,” a summit hosted by the US 20 Corridor Association at the Sioux City Convention Center. “For me, no transportation project equals the urgency I place on Highway 20. I am determined to seek long-term funding of the project until the last mile is laid, and the ribbon is cut,” said King. Highway 20, known as the “Midwest Connector,” links Illinois through Iowa to Nebraska almost entirely with four-lane highway. Only 90 miles remain two-lane, running from Moville to Moorland through Woodbury, Ida, Sac, Calhoun and Webster counties. Since his swearing-in as a Member of the United States Congress in 2003, King has secured a total of $47 million in federal funding authorizations to complete Highway 20. An additional $8 million in federal dollars has been secured by King and designated directly to Highway 20. “For far too long, northwest Iowa has been left out of the development opportunities that come with four-lane highways. This project will bring people, jobs and wealth into our region,” stated King. Most know that, years ago, in the Iowa Senate I declared my mission to see this highway expanded to four-lanes, and I will continue to drive support from the federal level.” Summit host, US 20 Corridor Association President, Shirley Phillips, will welcome many leaders including, Congressman Tom Latham of Iowa’s 4th Congressional District. Recognizing the leadership of Phillips and all US 20 Corridor Association members, King said, “Thanks to the self-sacrificing work of Shirley, the Association, and many others and their coordination with my office, construction and planning activity are taking place on every mile of Highway 20.” 2006 marked the 50th anniversary of the national interstate system created by President Eisenhower. Having experienced the strategic importance of the German Autobahn while serving as general in Europe during World War II, President Eisenhower brought home his vision for American security and prosperity and built the modern interstate highway system. “Just as Eisenhower followed his vision for interstate roads, we must follow our vision to expand Highway 20 to four-lanes. We know, just as Ike did, the benefits that will result from linking Iowans to America’s commerce. If every Highway 20 supporter pulls together and we keep sight of our goal, we will all soon meet again at that last ribbon cutting. But until that moment, I will not stop pushing four-lane 20,” King pledged.
04.10.2007	For Immediate Release King Challenges President Bush’s Aggressive Amnesty Plan Kiron, IA - U.S. Congressman Steve King assailed the re-warmed amnesty plan announced yesterday by President Bush in Yuma, Arizona. The President’s plan claims to avoid amnesty while simultaneously offering rewards to the same illegal immigrants who have broken the law. “The President cannot redefine amnesty for the convenience of his own policy initiative. The President’s proposal pardons immigration law-breakers and rewards them with the objective of their crimes. That’s amnesty and amnesty ultimately destroys the Rule of Law,” King stated. The President’s announcement of a new White House immigration plan comes in the wake of a new report highlighting the costs of illegal immigration to American taxpayers. In a thorough new study, The Heritage Foundation’s Robert Rector found that a household headed by a high school dropout (which includes the vast majority of illegal immigrant households) costs American taxpayers more than $32,000 in federal, state and local benefits, while contributing only about $9,000 in taxes. Such a household represents a net tax burden of $22,449 each year. Shockingly, the net cost to the American taxpayer over the lifetime of the household is $1.1 million. “Would any of us buy shares in a company that we knew would produce a loss of a million dollars a share?” asked King. “Cheap labor is not cheap at the cost of over a million dollars per head of household.” “This proposal dramatically expands a government subsidized “servant-class” at the expense of the middle-class. Amnesty aside, the President has proposed that American taxpayers foot the bill for a giant expansion of social program spending at all levels of government,” explained King. In addition, the President’s plan does not address issues of enforcement such as a low 2% prosecution rate from 2001 to 2005 for immigration law-breakers who are caught, or the low rate of capture for illegal border crossers. Border Patrol Agent Union Chief, T.J. Bonner confirms the low rate of capture, “For every person we catch [crossing the border illegally], two or three get by us.” King concludes, “While I recognize that President Bush earnestly seeks to lead the country in the right direction, I challenge his immigration proposal entirely. I am for expanding an ever more prosperous middle-class. I’m for the working family, and the hardworking undereducated Americans who can no longer aspire to work their way into the middle-class because they have been priced out of the market by illegal labor. I am opposed to amnesty, and I am for the Rule of Law,” stated King.
04.04.2007	For Immediate Release April 4, 2007 King Recognizes Sioux City’s Competitive Edge In Attracting Northwest Airlines Call Center Kiron, IA - U.S. Congressman Steve King commends the City of Sioux City and its leadership for winning 300 new jobs in a new Northwest Airlines Call Center. Northwest Airlines has selected Sioux City from a list of competing communities throughout the nation. The airline stated that the call center will be located in the former downtown JC Penny’s department store and will open in late 2007. Sales agents and management personnel will fill 300 new job openings. “Northwest’s announcement demonstrates the competitive edge Sioux City holds over communities throughout the nation,” stated King. “Thanks to the leadership of Mayor Craig Berenstein and other Sioux City officials, the entire community has reaped the benefit of innovation and hard work.” “Sioux City tied for third, nationally, among similar sized metro areas in Site Selection Magazine recent rankings of most new and expanded business projects. This city is on a roll, and I eagerly anticipate Sioux City’s continued growth, added King.”
03.30.2007	For Immediate Release March 30, 2007 King Celebrates History Of Ellis Island Ellis Island, N.Y. - U.S. Congressman Steve King, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law, participated in a field hearing at Ellis Island. King heard testimony from seven witnesses concerning the future of immigration in America. “Ellis Island is a place of significant historical value, not only for America, but for my family in particular. My grandmother entered the United States through Ellis Island on March 26, 1894. I admire my ancestors, who respected the laws of the country they hoped to call home, and entered the United States legally,” stated King. According to the Department of Homeland Security 2005 Yearbook of Immigration Statistics, between 1820 and 2000, nearly 66 million immigrants came to the United States. Twelve million of those came through Ellis Island during its years of operation, 1892 to 1954. The same number of immigrants would enter this country in the next 20 years if Congress passes legislation similar to what the Senate passed last year. “Such a frenzied rush of immigration would be unmanageable, making assimilation and common use of the English language relics of the past,” observed King. We must have an immigration and naturalization policy that promotes assimilation, establishes English as the official language, and that rewards those who respect the rule of law. If we seek to enhance the economic, social, and cultural well-being of the United States of America for all citizens, present and future, amnesty is not an option.”
03.29.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—Today, by a narrow vote of 216-210, Pelosi Democrats approved a $400 billion tax increase for every American man, woman and child. Under this Pelosi Budget, middle-class Iowa families will be penalized with an average $2,777.00 increase on their annual tax bill. U.S. Congressman Steve King sided with middle-class Iowans and voted against the Pelosi budget on March 29, 2007. The Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2008, or H.Con.Res. 99, is the basic framework that Congress will use for every spending decision for the rest of the year. “I believe in an ever-broadening American middle-class that benefits from smaller government and lower taxes. The Pelosi budget, on the other hand, claims that more government and more taxes on your income are better for America. In fact, if the federal budget were a McDonald’s meal, the Pelosi Democrats would be saying – Super size me!” said King. Speaker Pelosi’s budget resolution allows automatic tax increases when Republican tax cuts expire in the coming years, including income taxes, marriage penalties, and reduced child tax credits. By ignoring automatic tax increases, Pelosi claims to balance the budget by 2012 without actually voting to raise taxes. The Pelosi Budget also significantly raises both discretionary and mandatory spending at a much higher rate than projected inflation. “Make no mistake, with Speaker Pelosi at the helm, “Tax and Spend Democrats” are back. Super-sizing federal programs and taxing the earnings of hard-working Americans will not solve the problems facing our nation today,” stated King.
03.20.2007	For Immediate Release KING TESTIFIES IN SUPPORT OF VICTORY IN IRAQ "The stakes in Iraq are too high to stand idly by and watch the majority party in Congress undermine the constitutional authority of the Commander in Chief for political reasons. Congressional leadership needs to work with the President as Commander in Chief on a new strategy for victory and success in the war in Iraq, instead of waging a political war here at home. After only a month, the President’s new strategy in Iraq is beginning to show signs of success," said King. "If America were to stop short of victory in Iraq, Iran would become the unchallenged power in the Middle East. Defeatists need to realize that giving Iran control of 42.6% of the world’s export oil and an unobstructed path to become a nuclear power puts every American within range of their missiles," added King. King was one of two Republicans to testify before the Committee today.
03.13.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today commented on the funding for the Little Sioux watershed project. The Continuing Appropriations Resolution for Fiscal Year 2007, H.J.Res. 20, brought to the floor by the Democrats, zeroed out watershed funding. No amendments were allowed to be offered to restore watershed funding. King voted against H.J.Res. 20 on January 31, 2007. The legislation became law on February 15, 2007. King has been working with the Iowa NRCS to address the funding shortfall. The NRCS is trying to shift more funding from the de-obligated funds within the NRCS account to fund the Little Sioux project. They are currently awaiting a decision by OMB to see whether the Little Sioux project will be able to use these de-obligated funds. King is working with them to help the Little Sioux project. "I have worked in, for and with the Little Sioux watershed for decades. Democrats eliminated funding for watershed programs to transfer dollars to their pet projects. I am working with NRCS to move money into the Little Sioux watershed project. We are doing our best to find a way to fund the Little Sioux watershed project," said King.
03.09.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) offered an amendment to H.R. 720 today with the Ranking Member of the Water Subcommittee, U.S. Congressman Richard Baker. The Baker-King amendment would stop federal Davis-Bacon language from being expanded to cover the Water Quality Financing Act of 2007, H.R. 720. Their amendment specifically struck the Davis-Bacon section from H.R. 720. Davis-Bacon disproportionately impacts small companies and rural businesses. It requires that all contractors pay a federally mandated wage for federal projects. One hundred forty Members of Congress went on record supporting the elimination of Davis-Bacon from the legislation. The amendment failed by a vote of 140-280. "It is wrong for the federal government to impose a union wage scale on small communities and small contractors. A recent government study showed that 'prevailing wages', as determined by the federal government, were in error 100% of the time," said King. The Davis-Bacon Act, a Depression-era wage subsidy law, requires that each public works contract over $2,000 contain a clause that mandates “prevailing” wages be paid. Contractors and subcontractors are forced to pay a “prevailing wage” set by the federal government. King stated, "Some communities decide to forgo federal dollars because a Davis-Bacon project would inflate the cost of their project by 8-35%-- often more than the federal dollars involved. Davis-Bacon means fewer projects will be built and fewer jobs created."
03.08.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—Today, U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) heard firsthand the effects that biodiesel and ethanol production are having on the livestock industry during a hearing of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy and Poultry. King is a member of this subcommittee. As the House Agriculture Committee writes the Farm Bill, livestock groups have the opportunity to air their concerns that bio-fuels, such as ethanol derived from corn and biodiesel from soybeans, will drive up the cost of the grain they feed to their livestock. "I’ve said for years that the solution to agriculture’s problems are all resolved by getting more dollars per acre and higher market prices for livestock," said King. "Today we are anticipating $4 corn and $7 beans, which translates into more money per acre. From a broad perspective, it is the best solution agriculture has ever seen, not a problem. That said, the livestock producers feel the pinch. We need to grow the livestock industry right alongside the renewable fuels industry. As we write the Farm Bill, I will continue to push for more acres in production so there is an adequate feed supply. I will also push for more meat exports so livestock producers will have a larger market."
03.08.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) testified yesterday at an oversight hearing before the House Judiciary Committee, bringing to light evidence that illegal aliens and non-citizens are fraudulently taking part in American elections. The hearing featured other witnesses including: Senator Barack Obama, Senator Ben Cardin, Rep. Rahm Emmanuel, Rep. Loretta Sanchez, Rep. Brian Bilbray, Donna Brazile, Ralph Neas, Eve Sandberg and John Fund. "Every illegal vote by a non-citizen voids the vote of a U.S. citizen. There are no effective safeguards to stop non-citizens from casting ballots in our federal elections," said King. "To address this problem, we need to make sure only American citizens are registered to vote and that voters present a secure ID at the polls to prevent identity theft."
03.07.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King today successfully offered an amendment to save $100 million hard earned taxpayer dollars. The amendment passed on the House floor. King amended H.R. 569, a bill which reauthorizes appropriations for an expired federal program that provides grants to states for municipal planning, design, and construction of treatment works to intercept, transport, control, or treat municipal combined sewer overflows and sanitary sewer overflows. The King amendment reduced the taxpayer dollars authorized to be spent by 5%. King cut the spending by 5% to keep it in line with sums that were spent in the past, with an allowance for inflation. "When Congress spends hard earned taxpayer dollars it must spend each dollar wisely," said King. "Congress must stop increasing spending and do more with less." The 2007 amount authorized by this legislation was $1.8 billion. By having a 5% decrease in this number, King saved taxpayers $100 million. H.R. 569 passed the House and now awaits action by the Senate. Any sums appropriated pursuant to this authorization, once it becomes law, must pass both the House and Senate, and be signed by the President.
03.07.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King today offered an amendment to stop secret voting in the House Rules Committee. Ironically, King had to ask the Rules Committee for permission to offer his amendment on the House floor because the ruling party decided that no amendment could be offered on the House floor unless it was approved in advance by the Rules Committee. "It is a travesty against Americans that in order to stop secret voting by the Rules Committee I have to ask that very same Rules Committee for permission to offer my amendment on the House floor," said King. "Going up against the Rules Committee to ask them to stop their secret voting is like having to ask the opposing coach if it is okay to run a play against their team." King offered his amendment to H.Res. 202, a bill which funds the committees in the House of Representatives. His amendment requires the Committee on Rules to make their recorded votes public so that every American can see how Representatives voted. When the House was under Republican control in the 109th Congress, the Rules Committee was required to make their recorded votes public in their committee reports. When the Democrats took control of the House they changed this little known rule to allow their Rules Committee to have secret votes. Their change means that the Rules Committee does not have to make recorded votes public information in their committee reports. Typically, House committee reports inform the public about which amendments were considered and how their elected representatives voted. "Nancy Pelosi and her comrades changed the House Rules to allow secret voting in the Rules Committee. When they took over they promised better government, but instead they made it harder for the American public to know what their elected representatives are up to," said King, "We need more sunshine, not secret backroom votes."
02.28.2007	For Immediate Release KING WORKS TO STRENGTHEN NATIONAL SECURITY Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) voted today to ensure foreign businesses will not threaten national security. With King’s support, today the U.S. House passed H.R. 556, the National Security Foreign Investment Reform and Strengthened Transparency Act of 2007. The bill passed the House by a vote of 423 to 0. H.R. 556 would ensure certain business mergers and takeovers by foreign businesses are evaluated to determine whether they pose a threat to national security. The bill specifically changes the manner the President and the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States evaluate potential mergers and takeovers of American companies by foreign businesses and investors. Last year, the Bush Administration approved an agreement that would have put the operations of six American seaports in control of Dubai Ports World, a company controlled by the United Arab Emerates (UAE). After American public outrage on the agreement, the company eventually withdrew its bid. King offered an amendment to the bill that requires the President to review the effect a foreign merger or takeover would have on the U.S. efforts to fight human and drug smuggling. The House passed King’s amendment. “As our men and women in uniform continue to fight overseas on the front lines in the global War on Terror, we must not undermine their efforts by allowing our enemies access to our ports,” said King. “Every day terrorists look for new ways to poke holes in the security of the United States. This legislation makes sure terrorists do not use our own ports as a staging ground to harm Americans.”
02.21.2007	For Immediate Release KING TOURS BORDER FENCE CONSTRUCTION WITH HOMELAND SECRETARY CHERTOFF YUMA - U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05), Ranking Member of the House Immigration Subcommittee, and Homeland Security Secretary Chertoff yesterday investigated the progress of border fence construction along the U.S. southern border. King is inspecting the southern border with Chertoff and a small Congressional delegation. The group examined the miles of fencing that has been constructed since the President signed King's fence bill last fall. Miles of 20-foot high double fencing, ground sensors, cameras and patrols now stand in areas with typically high illegal traffic. In the San Luis area, an area with a new border fence, the number of illegals apprehended are down from 138,000 two years ago to 15,000. “When America spoke, Congress listened and built the wall,” said King. “We have proof it is effective, as the wall is constructed, the number of illegal crossings has gone down.” Congress authorized 854 miles of double fence or wall, including sensors, cameras, and lighting. Congress also provided $1.187 billion for construction this year. The work that King and Chertoff inspected is the first several miles of the project. "We have made a good start and we have a long way to go to get operational control of the border," added King.
02.16.2007	For Immediate Release KING VOTES AGAINST FIRST STEP TO DEFUND TROOPS Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today voted against Democrats’ first attempts to cut funding from the troops on the front lines of the War on Terror. Today House Democrats passed a resolution to undermine the War on Terror. Although the resolution is non-binding, Democrats have made public statements that they intend to use the resolution to start the steps toward cutting funding from the troops. King voted against the resolution. “The front line of the War on Terror is not in Washington, D.C., and Members of Congress have no business micromanaging war strategy. It is beyond the Congressional Powers in the Constitution; Congress is not the Commander-in-Chief, the President is. Congress should leave war fighting to the generals who are on the front lines and who do it everyday,” said King. “The battle of Iraq needed a plan for change. Our Commander-in-Chief, along with new military leaders, laid out a bold new initiative for success in this battle and the overall War on Terror. Washington is notorious for political posturing over sound policy. This resolution is dangerous to our security in America. What the Democrats forced on Americans today begins their strategy to slowly bleed the military into surrender,” added King. “If we can’t win this battle, the War on Terror will not be won anywhere,” added King.
02.13.2007	For Immediate Release KING INTRODUCES IRAQ RESOLUTION TO SUPPORT TROOPS Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today addressed the U.S. House, calling upon his colleagues to put their support behind our troops and their mission in battle and vote against the Democrat-introduced resolution meant to take the first steps toward cutting funding for the troops. Following are excerpts of his speech: “We’re in a war. von Clausewitz wrote that the object of war is to destroy the enemy’s will and ability to conduct war. That means take away their munitions, take care of their armies, destroy them if you can. But end the end, whatever you might do, does it break their will? You have to destroy their will. There’s nothing going on [Democrat] side of the aisle that is diminishing the will of our enemy. I will tell you that they will interpret it as encouraging the will of the enemy.” “Here on the floor of this Congress, when we had Nouri al Malki, the Prime Minister of Iraq, speaking from the very podium behind me, July 26, 2006, a short half-year ago, he said, ‘the fate of our country and yours is tied, should Democracy be allowed to fail in Iraq, and terror permitted to triumph, then the War on Terror will never be won elsewhere.’” Last week King introduced his own resolution as an alternative to measures that would prematurely withdraw American troops from Iraq or take steps toward cutting funding from the troops. The resolution pledges Congressional support for the troops, victory in Iraq and the global War on Terror.
02.12.2007	For Immediate Release KING INTRODUCES BILL TO MAKE ENGLISH OFFICIAL LANGUAGE OF U.S. Washington, D.C.— Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today introduced legislation to make it easier for American immigrants to fully realize the benefits of American opportunities. H.R. 997, the English Language Unity Act of 2007 would establish English as the official language of the United States. The bill would require the federal government to conduct business in English, but would not put restrictions on languages spoken or on the private sector. The bill has broad support with 26 co-sponsors. There are over 6,000 languages spoken throughout the world, and in the United States there are at least 28 different dominant languages -- those spoken by at least 100,000 people. The English Language Unity Act helps immigrants by encouraging them to learn English to fully integrate into American society. “English is the language of opportunity in America,” said King. “Immigrants have come here from all over the world for centuries to inherit our culture and opportunities. The best way for our newcomers to work toward their own success is through our common bond of language.” According to the U.S. Census, almost twelve million Americans are linguistically isolated. The number of Americans who do not speak English has increased 176 percent over the last twenty years. In addition, immigrants who are not proficient in English earn significantly less than English- proficient immigrants with similar backgrounds, experience and education. A 2005 Zogby International poll found that 79 percent of Americans favor making English the official language of the United States. In addition, over half of the states have already established English as their official language. The bill is identical to legislation King introduced in the 109th Congress. The legislation was one of the most supported bills in the 109th Congress. During debate on the Senate immigration bill last May, the U.S. Senate passed an amendment by Senator Inhofe that would establish English as the national language.
02.12.2007	For Immediate Release KING CONDUCTS MEETING OF CONGRESSIONAL YOUTH ADVISORY BOARD Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) recently met with high school students on his Congressional Youth Advisory Board for the Fifth Congressional District. King assembled the Youth Advisory Board to give him a deep insight on the issues that directly affect Iowa’s youth. He plans to use the creative sessions with the Youth Advisory Board to form strategies to prevent what has been dubbed the “brain drain,” Iowa is losing young people to other states. The group discussed the factors at play when students decide to leave Iowa. King hopes the group will produce ideas that will help reverse the trend that has Iowa losing talent. Sixty-four teenagers from across the Fifth Congressional district make up the Youth Advisory Board. King held board meetings Saturday in Sioux City and Shenandoah. “These are the new generation of young leaders in Iowa,” said King. “It’s important to work with them now on the issues that will impact them. This exceptional group of students is dedicated to their schools, their communities and their state, and I believe we can expect to see them leading their communities in the future and taking a stand on issues.” Members were selected based on leadership skills, academic performance and public service. The Youth Advisory Board is open to high school freshmen, sophomores and juniors in public, private and home education. Students interested in applying to the Youth Advisory Board for next school year may contact King at 202-225-4426 or visit his website to find more information and submit applications www.house.gov/steveking .
02.08.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) authored and introduced a resolution today to show Congressional support for the troops, victory in Iraq and the global War on Terror. Thirteen of King’s colleagues cosponsored his resolution, which supports victory in Iraq and the commanders and troops on the ground who will carry out the new Iraq strategy. King offered his resolution as an alternative to measures to prematurely withdraw American troops from Iraq. Last month President Bush announced a new strategy for Iraq that calls for the addition of 21,500 combat troops to the American force in Iraq to help quell sectarian violence in and around Baghdad. Although the Constitution clearly delegates the responsibility of determining the strategy for war to the president as Commander in Chief, Congressional Democrats have called for the passage of non-binding and binding measures aimed at undercutting the President’s new plan and undermining his constitutional responsibilities as Commander in Chief. “Contrary to what the mainstream media will cover, many Members of the House support our troops, our Commander in Chief, and this battle in the overall War on Terror,” said King. “We encourage and support the President’s new strategy in Iraq. This resolution highlights the importance of success in this historic fight for the safety and security of the American people and the preservation of the American way of life.”
02.01.2007	For Immediate Release KING OPPOSES MASSIVE SPENDING BILL Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) voted Wednesday to save taxpayers billions of dollars. The U.S. House passed a spending bill to fund the federal government through the end of the year. Republicans set federal spending levels in December to save taxpayers $7 billion this year and keep the budget on track to reduce the federal deficit. However, on Wednesday House Democrats refused to use that opportunity to save taxpayers billions and instead will spend the taxpayer dollars on their countless hidden earmarks. King opposed the bill. “Democrats would just rather put the burden of an enormous deficit on our children and grandchildren as they craft these huge spending bills behind closed doors,” said King. “Taxpayers demand transparency and accountability when it comes to their hard-earned money.” King authored and recently introduced the Sunlight Act to simplify the lawmaking process for the public to see and give the public more time to contact their representatives before a bill is voted on. It requires any bill, resolution or conference report to be available on the internet to the public at least 48 hours before a vote. Currently, some bills and amendments are voted on without the chance for taxpayers to read them and provide their input.
01.29.2007	For Immediate Release KING NAMED TO INFLUENTIAL POLICY COMMITTEE; REMAINS COMMITTED TO AG, SMALL BUSINESS Washington, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) has been named to the influential Republican Policy Committee in the U.S. House. The Policy Committee is responsible for crafting legislative goals. In addition, King still serves on the House Agriculture, Small Business and Judiciary Committees. The Agriculture Committee is charged with writing the Farm Bill this year. King sought subcommittee assignments to best represent Iowa’s farmers and will serve on the Conservation, Credit, Energy and Research Subcommittee, the Livestock, Dairy and Poultry Subcommittee and the Department Operations, Oversight, Nutrition and Forestry Subcommittee. “Iowans should expect their representatives to work as hard as they can to make their voice heard,” said King. “I will continue to do everything I can to make sure people of the Fifth District are crafting ag and small business policy – two things that affect a majority of Iowans every day.” When King first came to Congress, he sought a special waiver to serve on the House Small Business Committee so he could work for Iowa’s small businesses, which comprise the majority of Iowa’s economy. Before he was elected to Congress, King owned and operated his own Iowa small business for 28 years. He started King Construction in 1975 and built the business up from one bulldozer. King serves on the Regulations, Health Care and Trade Subcommittee and the Finance and Tax Subcommittee. King has also been named Ranking Member of the Immigration Subcommittee of the House Committee on Judiciary and serves on the Constitution Subcommittee.
01.23.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) tonight issued the following reaction to the State of the Union address: “I hope the State of the Union helps Washington move beyond petty politics so we can create policy to better this country, win the War on Terror and rid the U.S. of the constant threat of terrorism, reduce our dependence on foreign oil and secure our borders to protect our future economic and national security. “I was glad the President addressed issues that are on the minds of Iowans, such as access to affordable health care and increasing the use of renewable energy. In Congress, I’ve been working on legislation to address the cost of healthcare and help small businesses get access to affordable healthcare. “Renewable energy is important to our rural economies in Western Iowa. As the nation turns to America’s farmers to produce food, fiber and now fuel to help reduce our nation’s dependence on Middle Eastern oil, we must make sure we can produce the corn to keep up with demand. We also have to be mindful of what a high mandate could do to the livestock industry and feed prices. “Finally, the President addressed the need to win the War on Terror. Making the tough decisions now will affect the country and world our kids and grandkids will live in. It is time to step up and win this battle, because if we accept losing in Iraq, ultimately we will be forced to accept defeat in the Global War on Terror.”
01.17.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) has been named Ranking Member of the Immigration Subcommittee of the House Committee on Judiciary by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee. The Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the nation’s immigration policy. “We must reform our immigration laws so we can secure America’s future,” said King. “I am committed to securing our borders, fighting amnesty and creating a common sense immigration policy that will prevent illegals from taking jobs away from hard-working Americans. We must find and deport those illegals who commit dangerous crimes against Americans. We have to ensure our immigration laws are not used against us by terrorists.”
01.13.2007	For Immediate Release KING VOTES TO PREVENT SENIORS FROM PAYING HIGHER PRICES FOR DRUGS Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) this week voted to prevent seniors from paying higher prices for their prescription medications and to ensure their access to the drugs they need. Although King opposed the bill, the House passed H.R. 4, which requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to determine the price of drugs for Medicare. This requirement would apply to Medicare Part D, the new Prescription Drug Benefit. Before casting his vote for H.R. 4, King met with Dr. Mark McClellan, the former administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and former commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, to fully weigh how seniors would be affected if the government was required to set prescription drug prices for Medicare. “When I vote on issues that affect Medicare, like this one, I look to see what is best for lowering the costs that seniors pay out-of-pocket. I also make sure that seniors and their doctors will be able to choose the medicine that is best for them,” said King. “Government involvement in fixing drug prices will lead to fewer choices for doctors and patients and more out-of-pocket prescription drug expenses for America’s seniors.” Under Medicare Part D, the new Prescription Drug Benefit, premiums seniors pay for the basic drug benefit have fallen to an average of $22 a month, which is more than 40% less than the average $37 a month that was expected. According to CMS, on average, beneficiaries are saving nearly $1,100 a year on their drug costs, with many seniors and their doctors having more drugs to choose from under Part D than they did before. In addition, Part D has saved billions of taxpayer dollars; actual costs came in nearly $13 billion under budget for 2006. “I understand there are many changes that need to be made to the Medicare program to ensure seniors receive the best possible care. I will continue to work toward meaningful reform, but I cannot support measures, like H.R. 4, that will reverse the progress we have made in improving this important program for seniors. There are still ways we can improve Medicare, and I am working to do that in the 110th Congress,” added King.
01.11.2007	For Immediate Release KING: EMBRYONIC STEM CELL RESEARCH PROVIDES FALSE HOPE FOR THE SICK Washington, D.C.–U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today urged his colleagues to utilize new ethical research options and not contribute federal taxpayer dollars to ethically controversial embryonic stem cell research. The U.S. House today voted to allow taxpayer funds to support research on human embryonic stem cells. Embryonic stem cell research requires the live human embryo to be killed. Although King opposed the bill, the bill passed. “Embryonic stem cell research provides false hope to millions of people that a cure for their disease is right around the corner, when in fact there are currently zero successful treatments in humans using this type of research,” said King. “However, taxpayers will now be forced to invest millions of dollars into unproven, morally controversial research, when these funds could be instead invested into non-controversial, scientifically proven stem cell research that is saving lives already.” Today, patients are being successfully treated with adult stem cells for diseases like severe heart disease, diabetes, Parkinson’s disease, wounds and burns, multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injuries, with a total of 72 successful treatments. Alternative sources for obtaining pluripotent stem cells include amniotic fluid, umbilical cord blood, and adult stem cells from bone marrow, nasal mucus, dental pulp or fat.
01.10.2007	For Immediate Release KING FILES LAWSUIT AGAINST CULVER AND MAURO FOR VIOLATING IOWA’S OFFICIAL ENGLISH LAW Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King, along with citizen advocacy group U.S. English, Iowa County Auditors, state elected officials and a naturalized immigrant, today filed a lawsuit in state district court against Iowa Governor-elect Chet Culver and Secretary of State Michael Mauro for violating Iowa’s official English law. Last year, as Secretary of State, Culver placed illegal voting forms, such as voter registration and absentee ballot application forms, on taxpayer-supported Secretary of State website in foreign languages. Iowa’s new Secretary of State, Michael Mauro, has continued to violate Iowa’s law by placing voting forms on his website in Spanish, Bosnian, Vietnamese and Laotian. However, Iowa law mandates that all official government communications must be in English. According to Chapter 1.18 of the Iowa Code, “the English language is hereby declared to be the official language of the state of Iowa. All official… publications…shall be in the English language.” Iowa’s official English law was authored and pushed through by King when he was a state Senator and signed into law by Governor Vilsack in 2002. King wrote a letter to Culver last fall to call attention to the violation. However, Culver refused to remove the foreign language materials from his website, thereby refusing to comply with Iowa law. King then announced he was prepared to move forward to enforce Iowa law. “Unfortunately we can see a pattern for those who hold the title as Iowa’s chief elections officer,” said King. “Culver was in violation of the law, yet he refused to abide by the law. Mauro continues to be in clear violation of the law. However, neither of these officials is above the law.” “Naturalized citizens are required to demonstrate proficiency in English as a condition of citizenship. English is the language of opportunity. They are proud of their accomplishments and should not be discouraged from full assimilation into Iowa life,” added King. “No one in Iowa is entitled to register to vote in a foreign language.” In 2000, King challenged Vilsack on the definition of Iowa law and was ultimately successful. In the U.S. Congress, King is the recognized leader of the effort to establish English as the official language of the United States. In the 108th and 109th Congresses, King introduced the English Language Unity Act, which would establish English as the official language of the United States. The bill was among the most supported in the House. He plans to reintroduce the bill in the 110th Congress. In addition, he led the charge to allow the dated requirement to expire in the Voting Rights Act which forces certain localities, not in Iowa, to provide and fund foreign language ballots. Background on Iowa’s English Language Reaffirmation Act: ? Requires official communications, such as voter registration forms, to be in English. Private sector businesses are not affected. ? The law includes a narrow exception that allows translation by state officials if it is necessary to secure a constitutional right. However, this does not allow foreign language ballots and voting materials. Voting is a right, but the U.S. Constitution does not provide a right for citizens to vote in any language they choose. Further, there is no jurisdiction in Iowa that is subject to the foreign language voting requirements of the Voting Rights Act. ? Only U.S. citizens have the right to vote in federal elections. In order to become a citizen, individuals must prove proficiency in written and spoken English. Therefore, there is no reason to allow people to register in foreign languages. ? Under federal law, Iowans have the right to bring someone into the voting booth with them if they need help understanding the ballot.
01.10.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today released the following statement regarding the President’s nationally televised address on his new strategy for Iraq: “I know the President meets with the wounded and with the families of the casualties, as do I. His speech keeps faith with their sacrifice. George Bush is the Commander-in-Chief of all of our military and by the Constitution, he sets our foreign policy. “This is no time to discuss surrendering our will to the will of terrorists who will follow us home if they have the means to do so. “A year ago, there was violence across most of Iraq. Today, eighty percent of the violence is confined to the Baghdad areas. We have Baghdad surrounded, and today our military goes anywhere they want to go, anywhere in Iraq. “Illegal militia leaders need to be taken out of business, and Iran must cease their proxy war against the U.S. that they are conducting by funding, training and arming terrorists. Iraq needs to pass legislation that will distribute a portion of the oil revenue to each Iraqi. Every Iraqi will then have a vested interest in their national oil production and they will know that peace and prosperity directly affects their monthly check. “If this battle in the global War on Terror cannot be won in Iraq, it cannot be won anywhere. Whose civilization do you think is doomed?”
01.05.2007	For Immediate Release FIRST ORDER OF BUSINESS: DEMOCRATS SHUT THE PEOPLE OUT OF LAWMAKING King Introduces His Own Bill to Open the Process to Americans Washington, D.C.—During one of the first orders of business under Democrat control today, Democrats pushed through a secret ethics bill that shuts the American people out of the lawmaking process. H.Res.6 changes House Rules to remove requirements that kept the public informed as legislation was created and amended. Democrats pushed the bill through to a vote without allowing Republicans to offer input or amend the bill, contrary to campaign promises of bi-partisanship. U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) is calling on his colleagues to put their votes where their campaign promises were and support the bill he introduced yesterday to open law-making, expose financial interests and make it easier for the public to observe the process and be involved. "Making laws is a public process that requires input from the people impacted,” said King. “Americans should expect their representatives to conduct their business in an open and honest manner. Instead, what passed the House today shuts the people out of lawmaking. I say, let’s shine sunlight onto the process so Americans can participate.” King authored and introduced the Sunlight Act, which would simplify the lawmaking process for the public to see and give the public more time to contact their representatives before a bill is voted on. It requires any bill, resolution or conference report to be available on the internet to the public at least 48 hours before a vote. Amendments must be available on the internet before they are voted on. Currently, some bills and amendments are voted on without any public availability. It also calls for posting the subject of debate and vote on the House Chamber wall, to make it easier for the public to follow what is happing in the Chamber. The Sunlight Act would require privately-funded Congressional travel to be pre-approved by the Committee on Standards and require the travel to be reported within five days to the public through the internet. The Sunlight Act would also require financial disclosures filed by Members of Congress and staff to specifically detail their financial interests. Currently, financial disclosure forms only require public officials to disclose their financial assets in broad dollar amount ranges. For example, the current form allows officials to disclose their assets in a category as broad as: $100,001 - $250,000, $250,001 - $500,000, $500,001 - $1,000,000, $5,000,001 - $25,000,000, $25,000,001 - $50,000,000 or “Over $50,000,000.” The King bill requires an exact amount. This legislation is the same as legislation King introduced in the last Congress.
01.04.2007	For Immediate Release KING AUTHORS BILL TO SAVE SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS FOR OLDER AMERICANS FROM BEING PAID TO ILLEGAL ALIENS Washington, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today introduced a bill to protect Social Security payments for older Americans from being paid to illegal aliens. The bill would block an agreement between the United States and Mexico that would allow Social Security benefits to be paid to illegal aliens. The 2004 agreement, not yet in effect, allows Social Security benefits to be paid to non-citizens who are also eligible to receive social security benefits in their own country. The agreement would permit illegal aliens to receive U.S. Social Security benefits for the work they do in the United States. “The American taxpayer should not be forced to take on the financial burden of people who have entered the country illegally,” said King. “This is only one example of the way this country works against itself by offering incentives for breaking our laws.” The federal government does not track the amount of Social Security benefits paid to illegal aliens. However, the Social Security Administration has estimated that such an agreement with Mexico would cost the U.S. Social Security system $525 million over the next five years and would cost $650 million per year by 2050. “Social Security is a sacred trust with our seniors that must not be weakened, and that obligation should not be jeopardized by allowing illegal aliens to receive the benefits rightly bestowed on legal residents of the United States,” added King.
01.04.2007	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) today took the oath of office for his third term in Congress representing Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District. King will work in the 110th Congress to restore integrity to the legislative process, secure America’s future, fight for renewable fuels and give western Iowans a strong voice in the creation of the nation’s laws. “My oath to defend the Constitution is humbling and brings with it an overwhelming feeling of responsibility I have to the people of the Iowa and the nation,” said King. “I will continue to work my hardest to protect life, liberty and the pursuit of opportunity.” King will also continue to lead a prominent conservative Republican forum on Capitol Hill during the 110th Congress. King will serve as chairman of the Conservative Opportunity Society, a position held by former speaker of the House Newt Gingrich. The Conservative Opportunity Society is a 22-year-old organization that provided the common ground on which conservative Republican House members planned the revolution that ultimately captured majority control of the House in 1994.
12.29.2006	For Immediate Release KING COMMENTS ON SADDAM HUSSEIN EXECUTION Kiron - U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) tonight released the following statement regarding the execution of Saddam Hussein: “The name Saddam Hussein will live in infamy. He was the brutal, barbaric butcher of Baghdad who tortured and killed his enemies through some of history’s most horrible means. Saddam forced people feet first through shredding machines, some of the most gruesome torture imaginable. Saddam kept professional rapists on the payroll to torture women and terrorize their families. Rape rooms were real and active. He raised his sons Uday and Qusay to be as brutal as Saddam. They kept lions at palaces and fed their enemies to them. “Saddam Hussein gassed his own people, killing hundreds of thousands with weapons of mass destruction. He was responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands more, some at his own hand. Saddam Hussein was found guilty of “crimes against humanity,” for which there is only one sentence available under Iraqi law-death by hanging. “I have twice met with the judges who sat in judgment of Saddam. I strongly urged them to accept the risk to their lives and their families, reject all forces military, terrorist, and political against them and establish for posterity an independent judiciary. They have succeeded in the face of tremendous forces. Some of the judges saw family members murdered. “Most of the judges who sat in judgment of Saddam were appointed by Saddam himself. I expect the irony was not lost on Saddam as he contemplated his final hours and his destination in eternity, his demonic soul burning in the pits of perdition. “Today, I am grateful because the rule of law was upheld in Iraq. We are another big step closer to a final victory in Iraq and the Global War on Terror.”
12.27.2006	For Immediate Release KING COMMENTS ON PASSING OF PRESIDENT GERALD FORD Kiron – U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today released the following statement regarding the passing of President Gerald Ford: “Following the Watergate ordeal and his pardon of President Nixon, Gerald Ford declared, ‘Our long national nightmare is over.’ Our memory of his confidence and honor in the face of tremendous pressures will never end. The insight we have today into those turbulent times gives us greater appreciation for the composed, steady and principled leadership Gerald Ford provided. “President Ford confronted scandal, the Cold War, an energy crisis and a reeling economy with calmness and dignity. Three decades have passed since those turbulent times, allowing us to appreciate Gerald Ford for the steady hand he placed on the reins of America. “He was the right man at the right time to restore integrity to the presidency and to unify and heal a troubled nation. He trusted people over government and was, perhaps, the only president completely without guile. Gerald Ford did the right things for the right reasons, as was consistent with his character, and for this sterling quality, he ultimately lost the presidency to Jimmy Carter. “Gerald Ford was not an elected president, but he was a humble one. Ford said, ‘I’m a Ford, not a Lincoln.’ At his inauguration, Ford asked us to confirm him with our prayers. Americans did and he turned out to be a Cadillac. Our prayers today go out to his family with great gratitude for a life well lived.”
12.21.2006	For Immediate Release KING NAMES NELDA WOHLERT OF SUTHERLAND AN "ANGEL IN ADOPTION" Washington, D.C.— Iowa Congressman Steve King has named Nelda Wohlert of Sutherland an “Angel in Adoption.” Every year, King names one person or family an “Angel in Adoption” from the Fifth Congressional District for serving as a role model in his or her community by exemplifying truly selfless and inspiring behavior through foster and adoptive parenting. King presented Wohlert with the award this week at her home in Sutherland. Wohlert served as a foster mother for a two-year-old girl who was born with biliary atresia and esophageal verasis. Through the little girl’s liver transplant and numerous long hospital stays, Wohlert used her skills as a registered nurse and cared for her every minute. This year, Wohlert adopted the girl and is helping her every day through her on-going medical needs. “When I hear of an inspiring story like what Nelda did for this little girl, I am glad to be able to honor her with this award so that her example might spur others to consider foster care and adoption. Mothers like Nelda embody the good in humanity, and I am glad to be able to represent them,” said King. King is a member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, which uses its voice to improve the lives of vulnerable children and to recognize individuals who have done the same.
12.09.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) last night encouraged his colleagues to support a bill to modernize the outdated U.S. Postal Service (USPS). With King’s support, the House passed H.R. 6407, the Postal Accountability & Enhancement Act, to modernize USPS for the first time since 1970. The bill includes a provision that prohibits the USPS from closing or consolidating any processing facilities without providing information to affected communities, giving them the opportunity to provide input, and utilizing the input in the final decision. “With the Postal Service’s effort to move mail processing out of Sioux City, we realized that the Postal Service has much to learn about communicating with its customers,” said King. “The Postal Service wasn’t under any obligation to share information with us, and it has turned out to be a frustrating process for residents and businesses. Had these reforms been in place, we would have been assured our input was valued and that any possible decision to move the mail processing center out of Sioux City was based on positive data.” “As the Postal Service continues its deliberations about the possible consolidation of mail processing operations from Sioux City to Sioux Falls, I will hold the Postal Service to these new requirements to ensure that the citizens and businesses of Northwest Iowa receive full disclosure and are allowed unhindered input at every turn,” added King. Included in the overhaul are provisions to ensure the oversight of performance, including delivery times. In addition, the bill prohibits USPS from raising postage prices above inflation.
12.08.2006	For Immediate Release IN FINAL DAYS, HOUSE SPENDS TAXPAYER DOLLARS BY THE BILLIONS Washington, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today voted to keep America on track to balance the budget. The U.S. House today passed a Continuing Resolution to continue funding the federal government at current levels until February 15th, 2007. Because the bill carries current levels of funding into February, rather than to the end of the fiscal year, it would cost taxpayers an extra $7 billion, according to the Congressional Budget Office. This is because the budget recommendation for Fiscal Year 2007, which will likely be enacted once the Continuing Resolution has ended in February, is higher than current levels, which were passed to hold down federal spending and institute fiscal discipline. King voted against the bill. “The only remaining opportunity this year to instill fiscal discipline and save taxpayer dollars was to pass a continuing resolution for the balance of the fiscal year. The continuing resolution was necessary, but the only thing cutting it short will accomplish is give Congress another opportunity to increase spending,” said King. “This hodge-podge approach to spending is essentially burning American workers’ hard earned dollars.”
12.06.2006	For Immediate Release "The Iraq Study Group was authorized by Congress without direction, simply by an appropriation to the United States Institute of Peace. If a legitimate analysis was sought, why would we go to the United States Institute of Peace for advice on how to win a war? If you want to win a war, you go to the people who know how to win wars. "Last year, most of Iraq was consumed in intermittent violence. Today, the bloodshed is largely confined to Baghdad. We now have Baghdad surrounded with stability. Recently in Iraq, I sat down with General Abizaid, Commander of U.S. Central Command, General Casey, Commanding General of the Multi-National Force - Iraq, Lt. Gen. Chiarelli, Commander of military operations in Iraq, Dr. Zalmay Khalilzad, the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, the Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq and with many officers and enlisted men and women. They all believe in their mission. They know they are winning every day, because every day more Iraqi troops are stepping up to serve their country. "The Commanders in the field know that the most treacherous terrain in their battle is American public opinion. Every day the mainstream media seeks to shift American public opinion against this war, and since the leaks of their apparent sympathizers within the ISG were published last week, they have seized upon the findings of this unelected, unaccountable and autonomous committee to usher in a full-scale retreat from Iraq and from the front lines of the War on Terror. "In the words of General McAuliffe at the Battle of the Bulge, ‘Nuts’ to surrender. We are nuts to let the news media stampede our national confidence into a position of pacifism. If we allow the mainstream media and the surrender lobby to surrender slowly to an arbitrary timetable, Al Qaeda will declare victory. They will rebuild by the thousands and be renewed in their confidence. They will be victorious across the Middle East and will follow us back to America." King recently returned from the Middle East, where he met with U.S. troops, military commanders, and foreign officials in Germany, Kuwait, Iraq, Qatar and Afghanistan. He convened the survey of the region to give Iowans access to the most realistic information on the ground in Iraq.
12.06.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today addressed his colleagues on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, urging them to support H.R. 6099, the Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act, a bill that would require mothers to be informed of the pain felt by their babies during a dismembering abortion and to be informed of pain medication options for their babies. Following is the text of his speech: “I come to the floor to stand in support of the Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act. It is a bit of a bizarre debate from my perspective. I believe the debate should be on what instant life begins, rather than how we might kill an unborn baby, especially on how we would avoid perhaps inflicting pain on an unborn baby that is about to be killed. “We have a law in this country called the Humane Slaughter Act, which says than an animal cannot be slaughtered unless it’s rendered unconscious in a rather painless way. “We also have a law called the Animal Welfare Act, which gives the Secretary of Agriculture the authority to regulate how laboratory animals might be euthanized in a compassionate, humane fashion, and we can’t raise up an unborn baby to this level? “It’s astonishing to me that we’re here and there are people that oppose this bill. It’s high time it’s been brought to the floor, it’s a baby step, if you will, Mr. Speaker. “I applaud the gentleman from New Jersey for being the lead on the Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act.”
12.05.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today introduced legislation in Congress to protect the rights of working American taxpayers. The Tax Code Termination Act would mandate the replacement of the current income tax code with a system that provides tax relief for working Americans, protects the rights of taxpayers and reduces tax collection abuses, eliminates the bias against savings and investment, promotes economic growth and job creation and does not penalize marriage or families. The bill would sunset the current 66,000 page tax code on December 31, 2010 and would require that a new system be in place by July 4, 2010. “Our current tax code is fodder for late-night comedy. It’s rife with loopholes and special exemptions for those well connected industries, companies, and individuals who are able to negotiate special preferences,” said King. “I say let’s put the power back in the hands of hard-working Americans, and replace our current broken system with a more simple and fair system.” “For too long Americans have been forced to pursue the American Dream under a system of taxation that punishes productivity. It is time that we return to the drawing board to establish a new process of federal taxation that will unleash the full productive capacity of the American people and our economy,” added King.
11.30.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement on the federal government’s observance of National Methamphetamine Awareness Day: “We have finally been able to get this issue recognized as a national threat. Meth is a dangerous drug that has held our rural communities hostage for years. “Iowa leads the country in the fight against meth with one of the nation’s toughest anti-meth laws. Our state has seen a seventy percent decline in meth lab seizures since the law went into effect, and I want to commend Marvin VanHaaften for the work he does to protect our towns from the destruction this drug can cause. “In Congress, I will continue to do all that I can to stop the production, smuggling and sale of meth to keep it out of the hands of our kids.” King has authored and introduced legislation in Congress to strengthen the effect of Iowa’s meth law by bringing laws of bordering states in line. The Meth Lab Eradication Act, H.R. 3955, will shut down domestic production of methamphetamine.
11.28.2006	For Immediate Release KABUL, AFGHANISTAN – U.S. Congressman Steve King is wrapping up his survey of the Middle East. Over the Thanksgiving holiday, King has met with U.S. troops, military commanders, and foreign officials in Germany, Kuwait, Iraq, Qatar and Afghanistan. He convened the survey of the region to give Iowans information from the ground as Democrats stir calls for a “change of course” in Iraq. “I thought Iowans deserved to know the truth about what is really happening in Iraq, so I went to see the situation on the ground and bring that back to Iowa,” said King. “I’ve met with our military commanders, including Generals Casey and Abizaid, and they understand this part of the world. They are the experts that can tell us what to expect and they can quantify the enemy, so they are the most qualified to assess the situation in Iraq,” added King. “After surveying this region once again, I see the difference and the progress. There are enough electricity, water and sewage systems where there once were none, and you can see the commerce and clean streets. All of these things are solid measures of progress,” added King. “Most importantly, every single leader of this country has to ask, ‘what happens to the destiny of the United States if we do not prevail in this global War on Terror?’ Iraq is the central battleground in this War on Terror, and if we fail or retreat from there because of lack of political will, we can expect to be protecting our churches, schools and stores, because the terrorists will come to America after us,” added King.
11.23.2006	For Immediate Release RAMSTEIN AIR BASE, Germany – U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) arrived in Germany Thanksgiving day to visit with Airmen, Soldiers, Marines and Sailors at the Landstuhl Regional Medical Center (LRMC) and the Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility (CASF). Troops at LRMC sat down to eat Thanksgiving dinner with King. Many of those who joined him will soon fly back to the United States for further medical care. LRMC serves as the primary treatment center for injured servicemembers from Operations Enduring and Iraqi Freedom returning to the United States. After meeting with troops at LRMC, King, a member of the Air Force caucus, traveled to Ramstein Air Base where he visited with wounded servicemembers and Air Force medical staff at the CASF. “I am here with our troops on Thanksgiving because they have fought for America's freedom and the fight against terror. At the hospital I visited wounded servicemembers. They are injured but their spirit is not broken,” said King. "On Thanksgiving, and always, we must show them how much we appreciate their sacrifice, and the sacrifice of their families. For they are the reason America continues to be the light and beacon of liberty throughout the world." The largest and busiest facility of its kind, the CASF at Ramstein Air Base is one of the stops an injured or sick warfighter makes on their way to medical facilities in the United States. While many of the more critically injured are taken to nearby LRMC, the CASF is used as a staging area for those patients that are medically stable and ready to make the flight to the United States. King visited with servicemembers and wished staff and patients a happy Thanksgiving. The stop is part of a review of the Middle East King is taking at a time when Democrats are calling for a “change of course” in Iraq.
11.21.2006	For Immediate Release KING TO SPEND THANKSGIVING WITH WOUNDED TROOPS AND IN MIDDLE EAST Kiron - U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today announced he will be spending the Thanksgiving holiday with wounded U.S. troops and surveying the situation on the ground in the Middle East. As the nation discusses a “change of course” in Iraq policy, and the Iraq Study Committee holds meetings to that end, King will spend his Thanksgiving recess in the conflict areas and surveying the situation first-hand. “When we hear that Iraq needs a change of course, we hear it from the very same people who said toppling the Taliban was not possible, and free elections and a democratic government in Iraq were not possible. But they were,” said King. “As we get pounded with this rhetoric, how is it that no one dishing out the rhetoric asks what our troops, on-the-ground military leaders and the Iraqi leaders believe is possible?” “I’m hoping to have those conversations this weekend and find the answers to some of those questions so Iowans can make up their own minds,” added King.
11.13.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Steve King today hosted a briefing with the Inspector General of the United States Postal Service, who has just finished the audit of the study used to direct a possible consolidation of the Sioux City mail processing operations to Sioux Falls, South Dakota. King requested the USPS Inspector General conduct an audit of the study. The audit found that a possible consolidation would result in operational efficiency and provide a number of increases in the standard of mail service that residents of northwest Iowa currently have. The decision for consolidation now sits with USPS. “I called for this audit to determine if the initial study was conducted fairly, with a thorough analysis of the plan for consolidation, but I still question underlying aspects of the study,” said King. “I am asking Sioux City leaders to analyze the audit, so I can take their questions and concerns directly to the Postal Service,” said King. “If the Postal Service decides to move forward with consolidating Sioux City’s postmark, I will be closely monitoring their implementation for any decline in service standards, and I will be insisting on regular review,” added King.
11.05.2006	For Immediate Release Kiron - U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today issued the following statement regarding Saddam Hussein being found guilty of crimes against humanity and being sentenced to death: “Today’s verdict is a clear milestone of progress for the Iraqi people, and they should be congratulated by all Americans. Milestone after milestone, the people of Iraq are realizing their own freedom.” “Last year, I met with the judges who sat in judgment of Saddam and encouraged them to be courageous in the face of threats to their lives and their families. They have done all that we could have asked at great risk. In the process, they have established a foundation of the rule of law for all Iraqis.” "Now the Iraqis can move forward for the destiny of their own country, and band together against the terrorists, who know how critical the Iraq battlefield is to the security of the world.”
11.03.2006	For Immediate Release Sioux City - U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today brought the nation's top highway official, Federal Highway Administrator J. Richard Capka, to Sioux City to meet with community leaders about the US 20 four-lane project and see firsthand the need for more lanes keep up with regional job growth and increased transportation needs. King brought Administrator Capka to northwest Iowa to survey the US 20 four-lane project in person and to meet directly with local leaders. The group discussed the need to increase the section of US 20 from two lanes to four in northwest Iowa Capka detailed the importance of investment in transportation infrastructure. "The nation's continued economic growth depends on highway projects like this one," said Administrator Capka. "Because more than 52 million tons of goods are shipped across America's highways each day, highways are our nation's competitive edge in an increasingly global market." King said it was important the federal government took notice of the project, as a four-lane Highway 20 is the key to realizing the full economic potential of northwest Iowa. "A four-lane Highway 20 in northwest Iowa is the road to attracting more people, jobs, business and wealth for our local economies," said King. "With the cooperation with our dedicated community leaders all along Highway 20, and throughout the district, we were able to get Highway 20 on the federal government radar, and they have noticed us. Administrator Capka can now take his firsthand information back to Washington with the latest update on the project and how crucial it is for northwest Iowa." Since he served in the State Senate, King has made a four-lane Highway 20 is his top transportation priority. In his first two terms in Congress, King has successfully worked to secure $10 million in federal appropriations and $47 million in authorizations for the project. “The Fifth District is the nation's capital for renewable energy,” said King, “That means there are corn and soybeans coming in, and ethanol, biodiesel and co-products moving out over our highways. Highway 20 runs right through the heart of the renewable energy capital of America."
10.10.2006	For Immediate Release Sioux City, IA – In his ongoing effort to improve transportation for western Iowans, U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today urged the Iowa Department of Transportation (IDOT) Commission to make western Iowan transportation projects a priority. At the IDOT Commission meeting, King spoke on the importance of a four-lane Highway 20 to Northwest Iowa. “The western third of Iowa is number one in biodiesel, number two in ethanol and in the top ten for wind energy production,” said King. “That means more grain on the road, more livestock being moved in to consume the dried distillers grains and more resources being shipped to support the growing energy industries.” Since he was a state senator, King has pushed to four-lane the last ninety miles of Highway 20 that remain two lanes. “I often tell my wife if I die before it’s finished, just put me in a box and drive me down four-lane Highway 20. I want to be at the ribbon cutting,” King added. King also spoke about the importance of opening the Council Bluffs area through the airport expansion project and a U.S. 34 Bridge to connect Southwest Iowa to the metropolitan Omaha area. “Transportation issues are a critical component of economic development for western Iowa. New technologies, new knowledge and new ways of doing business are propelling industries all across Iowa’s economic landscape to achieve even stronger growth and prosperity. As the economy grows, the transportation system must grow with it and work even better to provide essential mobility to people and products,” said King. King has worked to bring federal funding to these projects since he has been in Congress. In appropriations bills for fiscal year 2007, he was successful in securing $500,000 for the Highway 20 project, $1,000,000 for the U.S. 34 Bridges and $1,000,000 for the Council Bluffs Airport. This is in addition to securing funds in other appropriations bills and ensuring the projects’ inclusion in the long-term authorization bill.
10.06.2006	For Immediate Release Early, IA – U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today praised the announcement by the Department of Labor that the economy gained 51,000 jobs in September, bringing the total new jobs to 6.6 million since August 2003. “Our economy thrives when we enact sound policies that get government out of the way to help small businesses create new jobs and allow American families to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks,” said King. This week, the Dow Jones Industrial Average set three record highs, closing yesterday at 11,870.06. Previously, the Dow’s all-time high had been 11,750.28. The Bureau of Labor Statistics also announced today that the unemployment rate is 4.6 percent, lower than the average unemployment rate for the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. In the past year, the economy has created more than 1.7 million new jobs, and today marks thirty-seven straight months of job creation. King voted to help American families and businesses owe less to the federal government through the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003. This law cut income tax rates, reduced the capital gains tax rate by 25 percent and spurred economic growth.
10.05.2006	For Immediate Release King Named “Guardian of Small Business” by NFIB Orange City, IA – Receiving recognition for his work for Iowa’s small businesses, U.S. Congressman Steve King has been named a “Guardian of Small Business” by NFIB, the nation’s small business advocacy group, for his voting record on behalf of small business owners. King received the award for consistently voting to support growth of small businesses. King earned a 100% rating from the small business group for his votes for tax relief, affordable health care, liability reform and reducing government regulation that inhibits small businesses. “The record shows that Rep. King is a true champion of small business, having stood strong on the key small-business votes in the 109th Congress,” said NFIB President and CEO Todd Stottlemyer, “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business.” “The best thing we can do for our entrepreneurs and small businesses is to get government out of their way,” said King. Small businesses comprise ninety-seven percent of Iowa’s business. For this reason, King obtained special permission to serve on the Small Business Committee in the U.S. House. King owned and operated his own small business, King Construction, until he was elected to Congress in 2002.
10.04.2006	For Immediate Release Storm Lake, IA – U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) is calling for applicants to be appointed to the country’s leading military academies. Interested high-school seniors can contact King to apply for an appointment to the Naval, Air Force or Merchant Marines Academies or to the Military Academy at West Point. Each year, King nominates one high school senior to each Service Academy. In late fall, King sorts through applications and reviews comments made by the Fifth District Academy Review Board, comprised of retired military and civic leaders. King bases his nomination decisions on ACT/ SAT scores, community activities, extracurricular activities and outstanding moral character. “Iowa has so many outstanding young people who make me proud that they are a part of our next generation of leaders,” said King. “I hope those that have the desire to serve their country will apply to receive an education from one of the finest institutions in the nation.” Interested high-school seniors may contact King’s Storm Lake office, by calling (712) 732-4197 or by downloading an application from his website, www.house.gov/steveking
10.02.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) is working to find ways for Iowa’s seniors to get more access to the prescription medications they need at a price they can afford. With King’s support, recently the U.S. House passed a bill that would allow citizens to carry a personal three-month supply of medication from Canada. The medication must be approved by the FDA and cannot be a controlled substance. Internet drug sales are still prohibited under the law. “Iowa’s seniors should not have to worry about how they will afford to pay for their medication,” said King. “I refuse to let our seniors be held hostage any longer to paying significantly more for the same drugs than people in other countries. Seniors will now have access to cheaper medications that meet the high drug safety standards we have in our own country.” The provision was part of H.R. 5441, the conference report on the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which funds the nation’s homeland security priorities, including border security, immigration enforcement, port and cargo security, and disaster preparedness for fiscal year 2007. King has a long record of supporting affordable healthcare and medications for American consumers. King is an original cosponsor of H.R. 328, The Pharmaceutical Market Access Act of 2005, which would give American consumers, pharmacists and wholesalers access to Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved prescription drugs from FDA-approved facilities in industrialized countries. The bill outlines safety requirements to make the importation of drugs safe for American consumers.
09.30.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. –U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today released the following statement regarding a bill the U.S. Senate passed last night that would erect a 700-miles border fence along the southern U.S. border: “Today we’ve seen the will of the people come to life. Americans have been beating down the doors of their representatives in Washington, demanding their borders be sealed. We heard you, and soon you’ll have your border wall.” “There is absolutely no way that we can get control of our border situation until we direct all traffic through the legal ports of entry. One year ago, sealing the border with a barrier was deemed outrageous and impossible, if only by the media. But the American people knew that we could not leave this country exposed to the terrorists and drug smugglers that come with our wide-open borders. “Only the foolish will claim we can fix our illegal immigration problem in this country without shutting down those holes. A sovereign nation has the right to know who is coming into their country. A border barrier, designed to be difficult to scale or tunnel under, will do its part to secure the border and clean up the free-for-all that currently exists. “While closing up the gaps must be our first order of action, a border fence isn’t going to be a complete solution. If we remove the jobs magnet, and incentives for illegal aliens, like birthright citizenship, drivers’ licenses and in-state tuition, the illegals will know they have to take the legal route to come here and try to rebuild their own countries.” In July, House leadership asked King to demonstrate his wall design to the Homeland Security and Government Reform committee hearing on border barriers. King, a contractor by trade, designed a twelve-foot high concrete border wall to be difficult to tunnel under or scale, to reinforce the southern border. King serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Immigration Subcommittee and the House Immigration Reform Caucus. He has long called for a common-sense immigration reform policy that returns jobs back to American workers by shutting off the jobs magnet and ending birthright citizenship, along with building barriers along the border to direct all traffic through the legal ports of entry. In August 2005, King brought in immigration reform experts to hold forums on border security and immigration reform across western Iowa.
09.29.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA – 05) is working to give federal agencies the tools to seek out terrorists before they have the opportunity to kill Americans. With King’s support, last night the U.S. House, with a vote of 232 – 191, passed H.R. 5825, the Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act, to protect our country from future terrorist attacks by making it easier to monitor overseas terrorist communications. H.R. 5825 updates rules on foreign surveillance of terrorist suspects to protect Americans’ civil liberties while outlining specific rules so the United States may respond swiftly to terrorist threats. In addition, the bill updates the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act for modern communication methods used by terrorists. It also streamlines the process for surveillance of overseas terrorist activity. “There’s no question we must update our abilities to stay in front of terrorist cells, who are quickly-adapting,” said King. “Our intelligence community cannot protect Americans if they are restrained by outdated laws. We must give the U.S. all the tools necessary to protect Americans so we know what’s going on to prevent another terrorist attack. I will continue to protect the Constitutional Rights and the safety of the American people.”
09.28.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.– Receiving recognition for his work to rein in government spending, U.S. Congressman Steve King has been named a “Hero of the Taxpayer” by the Americans for Tax Reform (ATR) for scoring 100 percent on its 2006 Congressional Ratings. King received the award for consistently voting to control Washington spending, protect property rights and against tax increases. “These key votes were the most critical for taxpayers in the second session of the 109th Congress,” said Grover Norquist, president of American for Tax Reform. “Looking at these votes, taxpayers back home can tell if they have a friend or enemy in Washington. As far as Steve King is concerned, they have a friend.” The award is based on 22 key votes during the second session of the 109th Congress. King’s votes included the line-item veto, helping families maintain their farms and family businesses through the repeal of the death tax and earmark reform bills designed to reduce government spending and bring sunlight into the spending process.
09.26.2006	For Immediate Release King Urges Colleagues to Support Parental Involvement Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to urge his colleagues to return to parents the right to make decisions affecting their own children. The House tonight passed The Child Interstate Abortion Notification Act (CIANA), to make it a federal crime to transport a minor across state lines in order to circumvent a state law requiring parental involvement in a minor’s abortion decision. Following is the text of King’s remarks: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Child Custody Protection Act, because it returns the fundamental right of parenting back where it belongs – to parents. Eight in ten Americans favor parental notification laws. Forty-four states have recognized the important role of parents in a minor girl’s decision to have an abortion by enacting parental involvement statutes. Even so, many of these laws are being circumvented by individuals who simply transport girls across state lines to another state without parental notification laws. All too often, these individuals are grown men who have sexually preyed on underage girls and use abortions to cover up their crimes. The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized that a parent’s right to control the care of their children is among the most fundamental of all liberty interests. The Supreme Court has consistently recognized that parents have a legal right to be involved in their minor daughter’s decision to seek medical care, including abortion. The Supreme Court has also observed that “the medical, emotional, and psychological consequences of an abortion are serious and can be lasting,” and that “it seems unlikely that the minor will obtain adequate counsel and support from the attending physician at an abortion clinic, where abortions for pregnant minors frequently take place.” The Supreme Court has also stated that “minors often lack the experience, perspective, and judgment to recognize and avoid choices that could be detrimental to them.” No one has a child’s best interests at heart more than their parents. Minors have to have parental permission to be given an aspirin by the school nurse. Twenty-six states have laws requiring parental consent before minors can get body piercings or tattoos. Parents must be able to play a role when their minor daughter is contemplating such an important life decision as what to do with an unplanned pregnancy. Please join me in supporting the Child Custody Protection Act. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.
09.26.2006	For Immediate Release KING TESTIFIES AT HOUSE WAYS AND MEANS HEARING ON FAIRTAX Washington, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today testified to the House Ways and Means Committee Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee. The subcommittee convened a hearing to dicuss proposals to reform the federal tax system. King was one of a small group of Members of Congress who testified before the committee. He listed the benefits of finally eliminating the IRS and adopting a FairTax. Following are excerpts of his prepared remarks: “Unlike these proposals which are intended to simply tinker with our broken income tax code, H.R. 25, the FairTax Act, offers the American people a complete departure from the way we’ve been taxed in the past. This one bill will completely alter the federal government’s tax collection practices, taxing consumption rather than production. By doing this, we could completely untax productive behavior in the United States and give Americans all the incentive in the world to earn all that they can, invest all that they can, save all that they can, keep all that they wish, and decide when and how much to pay in taxes each year. “With a shift of taxation from productive behavior to consumption, Americans will be able to take home their entire paycheck. This will have a large stimulus effect on our economy. Not only will Americans have more money to spend, they will have more money to save and invest—which will give American businesses more access to capital. This, in turn, will allow greater investment in research and development and allow for economic expansion throughout every sector of our economy. “H.R. 25 is called the FairTax because it is truly that—FAIR. Every American will be treated exactly the same at the tax register. I will submit that there is no better way to ensure that the role of the federal government in our lives is minimized and our own individual freedom is maximized."
09.22.2006	For Immediate Release HOUSE CLOSES NUMEROUS IMMIGRATION LOOPHOLES; PASSES STRICT BORDER-SECURITY BILLS Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King is fighting to strengthen the nation’s borders and close loopholes that result in failed immigration policies. This week, King urged his colleagues to support a number of bills to reform immigration policies. The House Thursday passed H.R. 6094, the Community Protection Act of 2006 and H.R. 6095, the Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006. H.R. 6094 would end the current “catch and release” of dangerous criminal aliens, allow government officials to remove criminal aliens and bar alien violent gang members from receiving asylum or temporary protected status, mandate their detention and render them deportable. The Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006 would allow local law enforcement to investigate, identify, arrest and detain illegal aliens. In many communities, local law enforcement is barred from complying with federal immigration law. H.R. 6095 would also urge uniform guidelines for prosecution of human smugglers and end “catch and release” of certain foreign nationals due to old injunctions. The House also passed H.R. 4830, the Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2006, to save human lives by criminalizing construction of unauthorized tunnels across a U.S. international border. “These are common-sense reforms and a huge advance for immigration reform,” said King. “This is what Americans have been calling for. We are removing the loopholes that have plagued our immigration laws for decades, and putting the components in place to control our porous borders.” In addition this week, the House passed the Federal Election Integrity Act of 2006, H.R. 4844, to preserve the integrity of the American voting process and prevent voter fraud by requiring voters to present a federal or state government issued, current and valid photo identification. The Federal Election Integrity Act would establish a uniform, national standard for voting eligibility with respect to photo identification and proof of citizenship, eliminating the potential for confusion in the current state-by-state approach. “It’s common sense that only American citizens should be voting in U.S. elections. That is the way the system was intended and it is what the American people put their faith in,” said King. “Citizens must use an ID to board a plane or cash a check; we should have the same standard for voting.” The bills must now be passed by the Senate and signed by the President to become law. Last week, the House passed a bill to construct a 700-mile border barrier. King serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Immigration Subcommittee and the House Immigration Reform Caucus.
09.20.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.– As the Senate remains poised this week to hear the House-passed Secure Fence Act, which would erect a 700-mile border fence, U.S. Rep. Steve King (IA – 05) today released the following statement: “Americans continue to tell us that they will not be satisfied until our border is secure and our current laws enforced. Our gaping borders threaten our security, and drugs and crime are coming over the border every single day. It is downright dangerous for any Senator to vote against protecting Americans. A border wall, designed effectively, so it cannot be tunneled under or scaled, will direct traffic to legal ports of entry. “I encourage our colleagues on the other side of the rotunda not to ignore the American people.” In July, House leadership asked King to demonstrate his wall design to the Homeland Security and Government Reform committee hearing on border barriers. King, a contractor by trade, designed a cost-effective twelve-foot high concrete border wall to be difficult to tunnel under or scale, to reinforce the southern border. King serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Immigration Subcommittee and the House Immigration Reform Caucus. He has long called for a common-sense immigration reform policy that returns jobs back to American workers by shutting off the jobs magnet and ending birthright citizenship, along with building barriers along the border to direct all traffic through the legal ports of entry. In August 2005, King brought immigration reform experts to hold forums on border security and immigration reform across western Iowa.
09.20.2006	For Immediate Release House Expresses Concern about Iranian Regime as U.N. Meets Today to Hear from U.S. and Iranian Leaders Washington, D.C.– One day after President Bush addressed the United Nations on the importance of the stability of the Middle East to winning the global War on Terror, today the U.S. House passed a bill authored by U.S. Rep. Steve King (IA-05) which highlights the constitutional system established by the Iranians 100 years ago and seeks to fill the hearts of the Iranian people with the desire to reject the bonds of tyranny. Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was also expected to address the U.N. General Assembly today. The Iranian regime has inflamed the international community recently with the promise of proliferation of nuclear weapons and by refusing to comply with an August 31 deadline to cease uranium enrichment. The bill, H.Res. 942, aims to inspire Iranians to return to their constitution. In the summer of 1906, thousands of Iranians, provoked by the corruption and oppression of their rulers, gathered in the public squares of Tehran in silent civil disobedience, intimidating the government with their quiet demand for a representative government. Finally, on August 5, 1906, Mozafaredin Shah issued an edict for the drafting of a constitution that would surrender power to the people. “The current Iranian regime poses a tremendous threat to our security and the rest of the world,” said King. “The will to be free of oppression is there, and it is in the best interest of global security to encourage the Iranians to return to their history of constitutional government.” H.Res. 942 is supported by the Iranian-American group National Union for Democracy in Iran. King introduced the legislation last month to mark the 100th anniversary of Iran’s Constitutional Revolution. A panel of five Iranian experts, including former Cabinet officials of a former government, then met on Capitol Hill to present the historical background of the democratic revolution of 1906, and discussed the benefit of Iranian freedom to the Middle East, the United States and the world.
09.15.2006	For Immediate Release KING: EVERY TAXPAYER SHOULD KNOW WHERE EVERY SINGLE DOLLAR IS SPENT Washington, D.C. – In his ongoing effort to see taxpayer dollars spent efficiently and reduce spending by the federal government, U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) this week voted for disclosure of all earmarks and is calling on his colleagues to allow the public, through their representatives, cut wasteful projects. This week, with King’s support, the House passed S.2590, the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act, which would put every federally funded project on the internet to be easily searched by the public. The website would track all federal financial assistance and expenditures including grants, contracts, subgrants, subcontracts, loans, awards, cooperative agreements, purchase orders, task orders and delivery orders. “Every single taxpayer should have access to where every single dollar is spent by the federal government,” said King. “I say eliminate secret earmarks and let the people be the watchdogs on their Members of Congress.” Also this week, King voted for H.Res. 1000, to have every funding earmark in federal spending bills to be listed with the name of the Member of Congress it was requested by. Currently, earmarks can be anonymously slipped into spending bills without the opportunity for Congress to vote on the additional spending. Sometimes taxpayers do not find out about the existence of these earmarks until after the bill has passed, making it too late for taxpayers to have a voice in the process. This summer King authored the Cut the Unnecessary Tab Act (CUT Act), H.Res. 975 to bring transparency, accountability and better control to the federal spending process by bringing every single spending item up for consideration for cuts. The CUT Act allows any Member of Congress to demand a vote on any spending item, even after the appropriations bills become law. Savings from this process are returned to the general fund and cannot be used for new spending. In addition, the bill would make the process open to the public and easily searchable on the internet so Americans can contact their Member of Congress and make their views known before votes.
09.14.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today released the following statement regarding legislation the U.S. House passed today by a vote of 281 to 138, that would erect 700-miles of border barriers along the southern U.S. border: “Five years after 9/11, we cannot continue to allow our borders to remain wide open. It’s a dangerous gamble with our national security, and it is a gamble with our future economic security. “The President, Republicans and Democrats have all recognized that this country can’t control the border without physical barriers. I have sat in the dark on the Arizona border and listened as dozens of illegals walked around me into America. Many are smuggling illegal drugs. Ninety percent of the illegal drugs used in the U.S. cross our border with Mexico. If we stop illegal traffic at the border, we stop illegal drugs, too. “After months of immigration reform field hearings across the nation, one thing remained clear. Americans will not stand for our porous borders anymore – they want it secured. As a sovereign nation, we should know who is coming into our country. “One year ago, at the Secure America’s Future rallies in Iowa, I stood with Iowans and called for a physical barrier along our southern border. Building a border wall and fence is a giant step in our overall immigration reform efforts, and it is crucial to force all traffic to the legal ports of entry to reclaim control of the entire border.” In July, House leadership asked King to demonstrate his wall design to the Homeland Security and Government Reform committee hearing on border barriers. King, a contractor by trade, designed a twelve-foot high concrete border wall to be difficult to tunnel under or scale, to reinforce the southern border. King serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Immigration Subcommittee and the House Immigration Reform Caucus. He has long called for a common-sense immigration reform policy that returns jobs back to American workers by shutting off the jobs magnet and ending birthright citizenship, along with building barriers along the border to direct all traffic through the legal ports of entry. In August 2005, King brought in immigration reform experts to hold forums on border security and immigration reform across western Iowa.
09.13.2006	For Immediate Release King: Iranian Regime Dangerous to Global Security, Iranians Need the Motivation to Take Charge of their Own Security Washington, D.C. – Today the House International Relations Committee passed King’s legislation which highlights the Iranians’ democratic heritage and seeks to fill the hearts of the Iranian people with the desire to reject the bonds of tyranny. The Iranian regime has made the international community nervous recently with the promise of a nuclear proliferation program. King introduced the legislation last month to mark the 100th anniversary of Iran’s Constitutional Revolution. A panel of five Iranian experts, some on the Cabinet of the former government, then met on Capitol Hill to present the historical background of the democratic revolution of 1906, and discussed the benefit of Iranian freedom to the Middle East, the United States and the world. Today the International Relations Committee approved the resolution. It now goes to the full House for consideration. King’s bill, H.Res. 942, aims to inspire Iranians to return to their constitutional democracy. In the summer of 1906, thousands of Iranians, provoked by the corruption and oppression by their rulers, gathered in the public squares of Teheran in silent civil disobedience, intimidating the government with their quiet demand for a democratic constitution and a broadly representative congress. Finally, on August 5, 1906, Mozafaredin Shah issued an edict for the writing of a democratic constitution that would surrender power to the people. “As the current Iranian regime presents a threat to global security, the world must show its support for the Iranian people’s fight for freedom and democracy,” said King.
09.13.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today invited high school students to apply to the first-ever Congressional Youth Advisory Board for the Fifth Congressional District. The Congressional Youth Advisory Board is open to high school freshmen, sophomores and juniors enrolled in public, private and home schools. King is assembling the Congressional Advisory Board to accomplish two major goals. The first is to give King a deep insight on the issues that directly affect Iowa’s youth. He plans to use the creative sessions with the Board to form strategies to prevent what has been dubbed the “brain drain,” Iowa losing young people to other states. The group will discuss the factors used when youth decide to leave Iowa for college and career, at a time when they and their peers are making those crucial decisions. King hopes the group will produce ideas that will help reverse the trend that has Iowa losing population for decades. “Western Iowa has terrific young minds and outstanding communities,” said King. “It is a grave concern of mine that we are losing these great minds to other states. The best way we can start to correct that trend is to work with our young people as they make those decisions.” Second, the group will focus on educating young people first-hand about government and policy and the role citizens play in communities, states and the country. “I hope this group of students will have the invaluable experience of having their voice heard and watch their ideas come to fruition to better their communities,” said King. Members will be selected based on leadership skills, academic performance and public service. The Board will meet two to three times per school year. Students interested in applying to the Congressional Youth Advisory Board may contact King’s Washington office at 202-225-4426 or download an application.
09.12.2006	For Immediate Release Laredo, Texas— U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05), member of the House Immigration Subcommittee, yesterday publicly called on President Bush to first answer the basic immigration questions in his letter. "I have called the White House every week for ten weeks asking for a response to my letter. Each week I got a promise to answer it next week. This Iowa boy knows that next week never comes." said King. "I told the White House two weeks ago that if they will not answer the most basic questions, I would hold a press conference and continue the discussion through the media. We cannot allow a policy that would legalize 60 million illegals to be established on a 'promise' of enforcement." In his speech to a rally of border residents, King read the text of a letter he has sent to the President, which rejects any potential guest worker or temporary worker plan based upon the promise of enforcement. Texas border residents and the Minutemen project yesterday held a rally to launch an eight-week project to guard the Texas – Mexico border and report their findings to Border Patrol agents. “The American people know what is going on, and they are not going to lie down and watch some plan be passed into law that is just a veiled amnesty,” said King. “The government has not even proved that it is capable of enforcing our current immigration laws. Let’s get our borders secure, let’s enforce our employment laws first, before we even talk about their plan to dump millions more foreign workers into this country.” The text of the letter is below. Dear Mr. President: The foundation of your immigration plan is based on the promise of enforcement. Americans have seen only a diminishing enforcement effort for at least twenty years. Neither they, nor I, are willing to accept a proposal based on an empty promise. If border security and domestic enforcement cannot be achieved, there is no way we can stop or even slow down the $65 billion in illegal drugs that enters our country annually across our southern border. I would appreciate your response to the following questions: 1) Is there such a thing as too much immigration? 2) If so, how much is too much? Too much legal? Too much illegal? 3) How many people do you believe would be given legal status in the U.S. over the next twenty years if S. 2611 were signed into law? 4) Would you agree to an annual cap on the number of immigrants allowed into the U.S.? 5) If the federal government cannot stop the illegal immigration of individuals who work illegally in the United States how do you propose we stop $65 billion worth of illegal drugs entering our country every year? I look forward to your response. The destiny of our nation hangs in the balance. Sincerely, Steve King Member of Congress
09.07.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today urged his colleagues to spend their time on more important issues in the daily lives of the American people. The bill, H.R. 503, which would ban horse slaughter in the United States for human consumption, passed the House today. It must now be passed by the Senate and signed by the President to become law. King offered an amendment to the bill that would preclude groups who have historically used equine meat for religious or cultural reasons. Horses have played, and continue to play, an important role in Native American culture. This is true for the tribes of the Great Northern Plains, including the Great Sioux Nation. Many tribal members raise and sell horses and some of these horses are used for food and exported. “With all of the big issues that should be addressed in America right now, such as the War on Terror, our porous borders, the high energy prices and access to quality and affordable healthcare,” said King. “I am astonished that instead Washington insiders are wasting their time regulating horse slaughter.” “Horses, cows, pigs, sheep, fish and many other different animals can be our pets, but I caution against humanizing them when we should be working on legislation to better the lives of the American people,” added King.
09.01.2006	For Immediate Release DUBUQUE – U.S. Congressman Steve King hosted the House Judiciary Committee in Iowa today for its last field immigration hearing of the summer. The Committee met in Dubuque today to hear testimony from witnesses on amnesty programs and discuss federal immigration reform policy. King released the following statement: “It is crucial for lawmakers to hear testimony from Americans all across this country. I believe the turnout at today’s hearing – is proof that this issue does not stop at the border states. Iowans are concerned about the impact illegal immigration will have on the future of this country. “The focus of the hearing was on what this country will face if a mass amnesty bill legalizes millions of illegal aliens, people who showed disregard for our rule of law by breaking our laws to get here. What we consistently find from these hearings out with the American people is the American people will not stand for mass amnesty. “Nothing good will come from an amnesty bill. It will continue to force legal American workers out of their jobs and further deplete the middle class. I wholly support an immigration policy designed to enhance the economic, social and cultural well-being of the United States of America. That means employer enforcement and preserving jobs for legal workers.” King serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Immigration Subcommittee and the House Immigration Reform Caucus. He has long called for a common-sense immigration reform policy that returns jobs back to American workers by shutting off the jobs and birthright magnets, along with building a barrier along the border to help direct all traffic through the legal ports of entry.
08.25.2006	For Immediate Release SHENANDOAH – U.S. Congressman Steve King is pushing full-force for construction of a Veterans Administration (VA) clinic in Shenandoah. King released the following statement today following communication from the Director of the Veterans Integrated Service Network on funding in the VA budget for a new Shenandoah clinic: “The Shenandoah community made an impression with their continued support for a new clinic, and the VA has heard us. We are closer than we’ve ever been to finally getting a VA clinic in Shenandoah. I will continue to work with federal officials to make sure veterans from all over southwest Iowa will have access to quality healthcare without being forced to drive hours to reach a clinic. Our country must uphold the promise we have made to those who selflessly served our country.” Since he came to Congress, King has been working to get more VA clinics in the Fifth District to serve veteran}
08.22.2006	For Immediate Release King and USDA Rural Development Present Grant to Coon Rapids Business for Economic Development Planning COON RAPIDS – Iowa Congressman Steve King and Mark Reisinger, USDA Rural Development State Director in Iowa were in Coon Rapids today to present M&M Divide Resource Conservation & Development, Inc. with a $50,000 Rural Business Opportunity Grant. M&M Divide will use the funds to support the planning effort for the $26 million Coon Rapids-White Rock Great Places initiative. The Coon Rapids-White Rock project was one the first three pilot communities selected out of 146 to be part of the State of Iowa’s “Great Places” program. The project’s goal is to grow local businesses, create tourism from local natural resources and foster a climate for supporting local entrepreneurship, as most economic growth will come from within the communities. Liz Garst drove King on a tour through the area of Garst family land holdings that are in the process of being donated to the White Rock Conservancy. “She delivered a compelling narrative of the generations of Garst on this land,” said King. “It is among the most unique and valuable of the land holdings in the entire state. I look forward to watching the development of White Rock; it reflects the nearly identical terrain that I roamed for years as a child.” “This represents the beginnings of an ambitious project that has the support of the Coon Rapids community,” added King. “USDA Rural Development is excited to join with M&M Divide to support this community wide effort that will improve the quality of life for residents,” Reisinger said. “It’s also very appropriate that Congressman King is here, because without his strong support in Washington, D.C., Rural Development would not be able to participate in projects like this one.” King represents western Iowans on the House Subcommittee on Conservation, Credit, Rural Development and Research of the House Agriculture Committee and the Subcommittee on Rural Enterprises, Agriculture, and Technology of the House Small Business Committee, as well as on the Rural Caucus. Further information on rural programs is available at the local USDA Rural Development office in Storm Lake, which can be reached at (712) 732-1851, or by visiting USDA’s web site at www.rurdev.usda.gov/ia.
08.21.2006	For Immediate Release STORM LAKE – Iowa Congressman Steve King has opened a new Storm Lake district office to serve the residents of Storm Lake and the surrounding areas. Now area residents can call or walk in to a new location for services and assistance or to get information about the Congressman and the federal government. The new office is located at 800 Oneida St., Suite A, in Storm Lake, IA. Residents are invited to visit the office, write the Congressman, or to call the office at (712) 732-4197. The office was formerly located on Lake Avenue. King plans an open house at the new office location for Storm Lake residents Wednesday, August 23rd, at 10:00 a.m. Residents will have the chance to talk to the Congressman about federal policies and enjoy refreshments. “I want people in the Fifth District to have every means possible to contact me,” said King. “The location is important for people in Storm Lake, and it gives those residents a chance to give me their feedback and let me know what issues are important to them.” King added he would encourage people to stop by or call their district offices for updates on legislation and the latest events in both Iowa and Washington, DC. In addition to the Storm Lake location, King has four other district office locations. They include: Council Bluffs – 40 Pearl Street, Council Bluffs, IA 51503 Phone: (712) 325-1404, Fax: (712) 325-1405 Creston – 208 W. Taylor Street, Creston, IA 50801 Phone: (641) 782-2495, Fax: (641) 782-2497 Sioux City – 526 Nebraska Street, Sioux City, IA 51101 Phone: (712) 224-4692, Fax: (712) 224-4693 Spencer – 306 N. Grand Avenue, Spencer, IA 50588 Phone: (712) 580-7754, Fax: (712) 580-3354}
08.17.2006	For Immediate Release SIOUX CITY – U.S. Congressman Steve King today hosted a conference in Sioux City and Council Bluffs for Iowa ministers to meet with national leaders of the evangelical and family values community. King organized the “Faith and Freedom Conference” to give Iowa pastors the opportunity to discuss the role of faith in the foundation and the future of the country, bringing leaders of the family values community to Sioux City to meet with the pastors. Among those who addressed the group were Tony Perkins of the Family Research Council, Tom Minnery of Focus on the Family, Gene Mills of the Louisiana Family Forum and Mark Earley of Prison Fellowship. “Tony Perkins, Tom Minnery, Gene Mills and Mark Earley fight every day to preserve the role of the family as the backbone of this nation,” said King. “As believers and as citizens, we have a responsibility to continue to seek God's guidance in our daily activities and apply His principles to our civic involvement for the future of the nation.” “The role of faith in the lives of our Founding Fathers tells us that faith will be an important guide in the future of the country,” added King. The leaders and pastors discussed topics that ranged from civic involvement to employing the power of the church network in disasters such as Hurricane Katrina and using Christian principles to set an example of volunteerism within communities and the country. Tony Perkins is the President of the Washington, D.C. based Family Research Council. Perkins and FRC have led the way in defending religious freedom in the public square, protecting the unborn and their mothers, defending and strengthening one man/one woman marriage and promoting pro-family public policy. Perkins hosts a weekly national radio program, "Washington Watch Weekly." Tom Minnery has been the Vice President of Public Policy for Focus on the Family since 1988, and is the author of “Why You Can’t Stay Silent: A Biblical Mandate to Shape our Culture.” Minnery trains and equips people for civic involvement. Drawing on his training at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School, his time as a Capitol Hill correspondent for Gannett newspapers, and his experience as the senior editor at Christianity Today, Minnery focuses on exposing the power of people of faith to change the course of history. Gene Mills is the Executive Director of the Louisiana Family Forum. As an ordained minister and highly sought-after motivational speaker, Mills brings more than twenty years of experience in working with pro-life and pro-family issues to the table. Gene’s leadership with the Louisiana Pastor’s Resource Council has helped to establish a statewide network of pastors and ministry leaders. The Pastor’s Resource Council and PRC Compassion played a key role in hurricane recovery in Louisiana since last summer. Mark Earley is the President and CEO of Prison Fellowship USA. Since its start in 1976 by Chuck Colson, Prison Fellowship has spread to 108 countries to fellowship with Jesus, visit prisoners and welcome their children. Prison Fellowship works with churches and volunteers across the country to disciple prisoners and prepare them to re-enter the community and minister to their children. Earley has served as a State Senator and Attorney General of Virginia.
08.07.2006	For Immediate Release KING ASKS USDA FOR DROUGHT ASSISTANCE FOR GRAZING ANIMALS IN WESTERN IOWA Washington, D.C.– Iowa Congressman Steve King is calling on the USDA for assistance for western Iowa counties, due to the toll the drought has taken on pasture and forage production. Today, King sent a letter to Glen Keppy, Administrator for the Farm Service Agency (FSA), requesting the FSA quickly honor requests from counties in the Fifth District for drought assistance such as emergency haying and grazing of CRP acres. The assistance will help Iowans maintain grazing animals, as the quality of the forage deteriorates from drought. Over the past four months, several counties in Western Iowa have received less than 40% of normal rainfall. “Extremely dry conditions in Iowa’s Fifth District during the spring and summer growing season have drastically reduced our pasture and forage production,” said King. “We have an immediate need to find forage for our grazing animals.”
07.31.2006	For Immediate Release SIOUX CENTER– U.S. Congressman Steve King and a U.S. House Agriculture Subcommittee today held a public farm bill Congressional field hearing for Iowa farmers in Sioux Center. Producers representing Iowa’s ag industry testified to the subcommittee, while others had the opportunity to mingle with lawmakers on the Subcommittee on Livestock and Horticulture. The House Agriculture Committee is holding public field hearings as they prepare to write the 2007 Farm Bill. King worked with committee leadership to bring the Farm Bill hearing to Iowa’s Fifth District. “It’s important to me to make sure Iowa’s producers to have a voice as we discuss the future of our nation’s farm policy,” said King. "I am pleased to be joining my friend and colleague, Steve King, for this farm bill hearing in his district,” said Subcommittee Chairman Rep. Robin Hayes (R-NC). “Mr. King does a great job of representing the views of his farmers and ranchers while he serves on the House Agriculture Committee. I look forward to hearing from Iowa producers on Monday and learning of how they think we should craft the next farm bill." The following people testified at today’s hearing: Mr. Bill Scheitler, Cattle Producer, Remsen, Iowa; Dr. Rexanne Struve, Hog Producer, Manning, Iowa; Mr. Mark Leonard, Cattle Producer, Holstein, Iowa; Mr. John Fluit, Jr., Cattle Producer, Inwood, Iowa; Mr. Tom Oswald, Soybean and Corn Producer, Cleghorn, Iowa; Mr. Dustin Bollig, Corn and Soybean Producer, Fenton, Iowa; Mr. Jim Meyer, Corn Producer, Odebolt, Iowa; Mr. Matt Schuiteman, Corn, Soybean and Hog Producer, Sioux Center, Iowa; Mr. Steve Rachut, Sweet Corn, Onion, Hay, Soybean and Corn Producer, Floyd, Iowa; Dr. Allan Kramer, Grain Producer, Sioux Center, Iowa King is a Member of the House Agriculture Committee and the Rural Caucus.
07.29.2006	For Immediate Release KING: MINIMUM WAGE INCREASE WILL HURT SMALL BUSINESSES Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King today released the following statement regarding the U.S. House vote to increase the minimum wage 41%, by $2.10, the amount demanded by Massachusetts Senator Ted Kennedy. The legislation also contained inheritance tax reforms and other tax changes. “At a time when we are working to continue the growth of the economy and provide opportunities for small businesses to create more jobs for Americans, forcing a wage increase is the absolute worst thing to do. “This impacts the small business owner the most, the employers who create three out of every four jobs in this country. When we artificially raise wages, we will force small businesses to either shrink their labor force, hiring fewer workers, transition to more efficient means of production, like automation, or simply close their doors altogether. “This will price low-wage workers, the very people it is intended to help, out of the labor market. “Labor is a commodity like corn, beans, gold or oil and its value should be established by supply and demand in the marketplace, not by congressional mandate. If it makes sense to legislate a minimum wage, it also makes sense to legislate a living wage. And, if it makes sense to legislate a living wage, it makes sense to simply legislate prosperity. If Congress passed a law that everyone had to make $1,000,000 a year there would only be a handful of people with a job in this country. “Eliminating the Death Tax on small business owners stands on its own merit. Small business owners shouldn’t have to sell the family business to pay the federal inheritance tax bill. I support full elimination of the death tax. But, adding inheritance tax reforms to a minimum wage mandate hurts small business owners. They should get the death tax relief they need without the federal minimum wage mandate. Small businesses are the backbone of our economy.”
07.28.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King today introduced legislation to cut runaway federal spending and bring public input into the federal appropriations process. The Cut the Unnecessary Tab (CUT) Act would bring transparency, accountability and better control to the federal spending process by bringing every single spending item up for consideration for cuts. Currently, earmarks can be anonymously slipped into spending bills without the opportunity for Congress to vote on the additional spending. Sometimes, taxpayers do not know about the existence of these earmarks until after the bill has passed, making it too late for taxpayers to have a voice in the process. The CUT Act allows any Member of Congress to demand a vote on any spending item, even after the appropriations bills become law. Savings from this process are returned to the general fund and cannot be used for new spending. In addition, the bill would make the process open to the public and easily searchable on the internet so Americans can contact their Member of Congress and make their views known before votes. “American taxpayers have had it with secret earmarks and federal spending with no accountability. I say let the people be the watchdog on their Members of Congress,” said King.
07.27.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – As a bill by U.S. Congressman Steve King to make English the official language gains support in Congress, an Iowa state senator testified today to a House panel on the effect of Iowa’s 2002 law signed by Governor Vilsack that makes English the official language of Iowa. Iowa Senator Paul McKinley, Co-Chairman of the Education Committee in the Iowa state Senate, testified today to the U.S. House Education and Workforce Committee’s Subcommittee on Education Reform. King’s bill to make English the official language of the United States, H.R. 997, awaits approval by this committee. After it is passed out of committee, the bill will be sent to the full House for consideration. “The American people overwhelmingly support unifying this country through our common bond of language and empowering immigrants to fully realize the American dream,” said King. Almost twelve million Americans are linguistically isolated, according to the 2000 U.S. Census. The number linguistically isolated has risen 54 percent since 1990. In all, more than 1-in-25 households in the United States are linguistically isolated, meaning that no one in the household speaks English at home or speaks English “very well.” In addition, the number of Americans who do not speak English has increased 176 percent over the last twenty years, according to the U.S. Census. However, immigrants who are not proficient in English earn significantly less than English- proficient immigrants with similar backgrounds, experience and education. King’s bill, the English Language Unity Act, would establish English as the official language of the United States and require the federal government to conduct business in English; however, the bill would not put restrictions on languages spoken or on the private sector. The bill does include common sense exceptions permitting the use of other languages for emergency, safety and health services; judicial proceedings; foreign language instruction and tourism promotion. With 161 cosponsors, it ranks among the top of most-supported bills by Members of Congress. Early this summer, the U.S. Senate passed an amendment that would make English the national language. Over half of the states have passed laws to make English the official language. In addition, according to a recent Zogby poll, 84% of Americans and 77% of Hispanics believe English should be the official language of government operations.
07.27.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Agriculture Committee member Congressman Steve King today released the following statement regarding Japan’s announcement that it will resume beef trade with the United States: “Iowa’s beef producers will regain access to the Japanese beef market after almost three years of relentless negotiation by the U.S. to regain beef trade with Japan. We look forward to our producers having that market open for business. “Audits of our plants only took a month to conduct because of strict US safety methods already in place. Now, 34 out of 35 plants may begin to export beef to Japan immediately. “U.S. beef is among the safest in the world, and the Secretary of Agriculture and the U.S. Trade Representative should be commended for advancing the use of scientific evidence for world trading standards.” According to the USDA, the United States exported $1.4 billion worth of beef and beef products to Japan in 2003. King is a member of the House Agriculture Committee.
07.27.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.– Iowa Congressman Steve King announced today Iowa will host a public field immigration hearing of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee in Dubuque on September 1st. The U.S. House is bringing the immigration reform debate to the American people this summer through a series of immigration reform field hearings held across the country. King serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Immigration Subcommittee and the Immigration Reform Caucus. The hearing will be open to the public and will hear testimony from witnesses and discuss, “Do the Senate’s Reid-Kennedy bill’s amnesty provisions repeat the mistakes of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986?” “It is crucial for Iowans to be involved in this debate, as immigration policy affects the national and economic security of this country for generations,” said King. “I hope many Iowans will take advantage of this opportunity to participate in federal policy-making and make Iowa’s voice heard.”
07.25.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.– Iowa Congressman Steve King today honored native Iowan and Major League Baseball Hall of Fame Member Bob Feller on the 60th anniversary of the historic 1946 season and his return to the U.S. from military service. Today the U.S. House passed H.Con.Res 449, a resolution to commemorate the anniversary. Feller, from a farm near Van Meter, set major league records as a pitcher for the Cleveland Indians. Feller’s first contract was signed with the Cleveland Indians in July 1935, when he was 16 years old. At the peak of his career, he enlisted in the U.S. Navy two days after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. Years later, in 1962, Feller was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. “Bob Feller is a source of great pride for Iowans,” said King. “His love for his country and desire to give his talent his full effort exemplifies what was found in Iowa’s rural communities decades ago that still exists today.”
07.20.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.– Iowa Congressman Steve King late yesterday met with the new U.S. Trade Ambassador Susan Schwab and Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to discuss WTO trade negotiations. At the end of the month, WTO negotiators will return to Geneva for additional trade discussions. King and fellow Members of the Agriculture Committee met with the new trade Ambassador and the Secretary to discuss the negotiations in advance. “We have an active Secretary of Agriculture teamed up with our new, but experienced, U.S. Trade Ambassador Schwab,” said King. “I was encouraged by the message I got from our new Trade Ambassador that we’re not going to write the next Farm Bill with WTO trade negotiations.” “The message from the President is no deal is better than a bad deal. We remain more aggressive in our proposal than either the European Union or developing countries. We will continue with our intense negotiations until a good deal is reached or there will be no deal. We’re pushing hard on market access to both the E.U. and developing countries, and we should have a resolution before we write the next Farm Bill,” added King.
07.19.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - As the U.S. House brings the immigration reform debate to the American people through a series of immigration reform field hearings held across the country, King has been asked by his colleagues to testify at the hearing discussing prospective border fence designs, tomorrow, Thursday, July 20th at 2:00 p.m. EDT in Washington, D.C. The witnesses expected to testify at the joint hearing, held by subcommittees of the House Government Reform and Homeland Security Committees, are King and Reps. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) and Silvestre Reyes (D-TX). King has long been a proponent of curbing illegal immigration through border security, including a border fence and employer enforcement. He has designed a plan for a concrete border wall to span the entire length of the southern border at a fraction of the cost of other shorter border fence proposals. The structure would be designed to make it difficult to scale or tunnel under. King serves on the House Immigration Subcommittee and the Immigration Reform Caucus.
07.18.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King today voted to support families and to protect states’ right to protect traditional marriage. King is an original co-sponsor of the Marriage Protection Amendment, a constitutional amendment to define marriage as the union between one man and one woman. Today, 236 Members of the House voted for the amendment, but it requires a two-thirds majority to pass. “Marriage, between and man and woman, is the foundation of family, and therefore our communities and society,” said King. “Passing a constitutional amendment will place this debate back where it belongs, with the American people, and out of the hands of activist judges legislating from the bench to impose same sex marriage.” The Federal Marriage Amendment provides a national definition of marriage, leaving marriage laws to state legislatures. It also adds a layer of protection against court-imposed arrangements other than marriage; it protects states from being forced to recognize same-sex unions created by other states. The amendment states: Marriage in the United States shall consist solely of the union of a man and a woman. Neither this Constitution, nor the constitution of any State, shall be construed to require that marriage or the legal incidents thereof be conferred upon any union other than the union of a man and a woman. Ninety percent of the states have enacted laws providing that marriage shall consist between a man and a woman. A constitutional amendment requires ratification from seventy-five percent of the states.
07.13.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King released the following statement following the U.S. House vote on his amendment that would have allowed the foreign language ballot federal mandate within the Voting Rights Act to expire: “It is crucial that all Members have the opportunity to represent the views of their constituents on this important law, which affects the very integrity of our voting process. I applaud Congressional Leadership for standing with us and holding the debate on this issue. Lifting the federal mandate simply gives localities back the power to determine if they will spend taxpayer dollars on voting materials in other languages. “Foreign language ballots divide our nation by language and increase the chance for error and fraud, compromising our voting process. Voters who need help in the voting booth, may bring an interpreter into the voting booth, under current federal law. Every citizen deserves to cast an informed ballot, and this is the right approach for voters who have difficulty understanding voting materials in English. “English is the language of opportunity and America has a long, proud tradition of assimilating new immigrants. It is vital we ensure future generations will continue this tradition.”
07.13.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.— Iowa Congressman Steve King today announced he will host a public farm bill Congressional field hearing for Iowa farmers in Sioux Center, on Monday, July 31st. King will bring members of the U.S. House of Representatives Subcommittee on Livestock and Horticulture to discuss federal farm policy with Iowa farmers. The hearing will be held at 9:00 a.m., Monday, July 31st at Dordt College in Sioux Center. “Since hearings began for the 2007 Farm Bill, my goal has been to make sure Iowa’s farmers have a voice at the negotiating table,” said King. “I hope farmers in western Iowa will take advantage of the unique opportunity to participate and lend their expertise to federal ag policy as it is shaped by Congressional agriculture leaders.” King is a Member of the House Agriculture Committee and the Rural Caucus.
07.11.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.– Iowa Congressman Steve King today voted to protect children from online gambling dangers and to enforce our laws against illegal internet gambling. H.R. 4411, the Internet Gambling Prohibition and Enforcement Act, passed the U.S. House today with a vote of 317-93. The bill provides enforcement of internet gambling laws by clarifying existing law, regulating payment to these sites, authorizing law enforcement to pursue injunctions against persons or businesses that aid internet gambling and support international efforts to combat illegal gambling and money laundering. “If our illegal gambling laws aren’t enforced, kids and families can be sucked into illegal, overseas operations and not know that their money is financing drugs, crime or terrorism,” said King. Currently, most of illegal internet gambling is centered overseas. Americans spend $5.9 billion per year on illegal Internet gambling. Gambling websites make it easy for children to access the sites, encourage addiction, and provide a front for money laundering, drug trafficking, and even terrorist financing. H.R. 4411 does not affect current state gambling laws. The bill must be passed by the Senate and signed by the President to become law.
07.08.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) released the following statement following the second House immigration field hearing, held yesterday by the International Relations Subcommittee on Terrorism in Laredo, Texas: “It is crucial for Americans and Congress to hear this testimony by witnesses who deal with the border situation everyday. “The witnesses, who are border sheriffs, spoke about the difficulties they have enforcing the border, and the numbers of people that are pouring across the border here illegally are increasing, as is crime. The crime across the river is intense, and a sheriff testified the murders and the kidnappings that are taking place there have been increasing month-by-month. “But the focus of the hearing was on terrorism. ‘[A]t any given time, daytime or nighttime, one can get on a boat and traverse back and forth between Texas and Mexico and not get caught,’ testified Sheriff Sigifredo Gonzales, Jr. of Zapata County. ‘If smugglers can bring tons of marijuana and cocaine at one time, and can smuggle 20-30 persons at one time, one can just imagine how easy it would be to bring in 2-3 terrorists or their weapons of mass destruction across the river and not be detected. Chances of apprehension are very slim,’ concluded Gonzales. “The witnesses also spoke about their experiences with the Mexican military insurgents who have come into the United States. We learned there is no question there is some support on the other side of the river by the Mexican military. “This field hearing was focused on the people pouring across that are not Mexicans, and that number is increasing dramatically. In these sectors, that number is well over fifty percent of the number of people that are picked up. The number of illegal drugs that are being shipped into the United States is also growing incrementally, and the strength of the gangs, particularly the MS-13 gang, is getting more and more powerful. “It was in interesting mix of people that came from around the border to attend the hearing, and it was crucial for the Members of Congress to get a sense of the culture and the intensity of the problems that they have.” The U.S. House is bringing the immigration reform debate out of Washington and to the American people through a series of immigration reform field hearings held across the country. King serves on the House Immigration Subcommittee and the Immigration Reform Caucus.
06.29.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – In his ongoing effort to eradicate methamphetamine from Iowa’s communities, U.S. Congressman Steve King last night urged his colleagues to support measures to give Iowa law enforcement officers the resources to fight meth as the House debated H.R. 5672, the Science, State, Justice, and Commerce Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. The bill, passed out of the House last night, now goes to the Senate. King has been working with his colleagues for funding for the Sioux City Police Department National Training Center as part of H.R. 5672. While the center was included as a priority in the bill, projects will not receive final funding amounts until the bill goes to House and Senate Conference. “Law enforcement departments in 38 states across the nation know how important the National Training Center is to fight the meth problem that infests our country, hurting our kids and crippling our communities,” said King. King worked closely with Rep. Frank Wolf, Chairman of the House Science, the Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, to secure a place for the training center in H.R. 5672. The House also approved an amendment co-sponsored by King that restores $50 million to Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne-JAG Grants) funding for next year by reducing a planned $72 million increase for the U.S. Census. The amendment was introduced by Reps. Lee Terry (R-NE) and Mark Kennedy (R-MN). Iowa has approximately 25 police task forces that use Byrne-JAG grants to stop methamphetamine cooking, trafficking and abuse. The House funding bill for next year now includes $444 million for Byrne-JAG. “Iowa’s law enforcement officers fight the war every day to rid communities of the meth that is killing our kids,” said King. “Law enforcement could spend the bulk of their time and resources just fighting this terrible drug, so this federal funding is critical to make sure they are able to do what they need to protect our communities.” Last year Byrne-JAG funding was funded at 45% of what was needed by local law enforcement in states plagued with methamphetamine abuse. King pushed for full funding of the grants then too. According to the U.S. Attorney General, the number of meth cases nationwide has quadrupled over the last ten years. King is a member of the House Caucus to Fight Meth. He has also authored legislation to make Iowa's tough meth precursor law federal law.
06.21.2006	For Immediate Release KING APPLAUDS DECISION TO GIVE AMERICANS ANOTHER CHANCE TO END BILINGUAL VOTING Washington, D.C.— Following outrage from Members of Congress, citizen groups and constituents, the bill to renew certain controversial provisions of the 1965 Voting Rights Act (VRA) was pulled from the U.S. House voting calendar today, giving Members more time to respond to concerns before a vote by the full House. The bill to renew the VRA, H.R. 9, was expected to go to the full House today; however, a debate over institutionalizing bilingual voting loomed over House leadership. U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) offered an amendment to the bill, which was denied by the House Rules Committee, the body that decides which amendments are to be made in order on the House floor. King’s amendment would prevent renewal of a provision of the bill which requires localities to produce multilingual voting ballots for twenty-five additional years. “The Voting Rights Act is an important law, once meant to ensure minorities were not denied their right to vote in the 1960s,” said King. “The move to allow Members more time to respond is a setback only for those who want to institutionalize multilingual voting for the next twenty-five years. It is irresponsible to renew these provisions for another generation. A Member of Congress could serve Congress for an entire lifetime without getting the opportunity to object to these federal mandates on behalf of their tax-paying constituents.” “If we want to demolish modern-day obstacles and bring all backgrounds into our voting process to communicate with each other, we must unify the country instead of driving a wedge between cultures,” added King. King recently authored a letter to Leadership signed by 79 Members outlining concerns over the renewal of multilingual ballot provisions in Sections 203 and 4(f)(4) of the VRA. The provisions were not part of the original VRA, but were added ten years later. Following is an excerpt of the letter: “Multilingual ballots divide our country, increase the risk of voter error and fraud, and burden local taxpayers. The multilingual ballot mandate encourages the linguistic division of our nation and contradicts the “Melting Pot” ideal that has made us the most successful multi-ethnic nation on earth. This increasingly burdensome mandate on state and local governments to provide multilingual voting materials also serves to undermine the election process. It contradicts the requirement that immigrants need to demonstrate the ability to read and understand English in order to become naturalized citizens. The existence of multilingual ballots increases the risk of election errors and fraud. Furthermore, not only are multilingual ballots an unfunded mandate, but they are a waste of taxpayer funds because they are mandated by the VRA without regard to whether they are actually used.” If provisions expire, people with limited-English proficiency would still have help inside the voting booth. Voters who need language assistance are already permitted, under current law, to bring an interpreter of their choice into the voting booth. “Every citizen deserves to cast an informed ballot, and this is the right approach for voters who have difficulty understanding voting materials in English,” added King.
06.14.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.– The U.S. House today passed an amendment by Iowa Congressman Steve King that prevents taxpayers from footing the bill for construction of a gay and lesbian center in Los Angeles. The amendment, which strikes an earmark for the center, was made part of H.R. 5576, the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act for FY07. The Chairman accepted the amendment and the House voted to approve it. “This is what happens when Washington is addicted to earmarks,” said King. “Taxpayers end up funding, without their knowledge, an organization that lobbies and advocates for same-sex marriage.” “The gay and lesbian center in Los Angeles is free to advocate their views, but I do not believe that taxpayers should be forced to subsidize an organization that is so radically opposed to traditional values the overwhelming majority of Americans hold dear.”
06.14.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C – The Inspector General of the United States Postal Service has agreed to conduct an audit of the study used to direct a possible consolidation of the Sioux City postal center, at the urging of Congressman Steve King. Today, the offices of King and of Senators Grassley and Harkin met with the Inspector General to outline the parameters of the audit, which is expected to take a number of months. Once the audit is completed, the findings will be available to the public. King has long asserted the previous study did not use the proper factors to fully determine the cost-impact of consolidation. “I hope an independent investigation of the study will reveal to Sioux City officials and residents how this study was really conducted,” said King. “If the business case has not been fully examined, then a consolidation is clearly premature. I don’t want the Sioux City postmark to be lost over a plan that has been deemed ‘close enough for government work’ by Washington bureaucrats."
06.14.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Iowa Congressman Steve King today called on the U.S. Secretary of Education to consider the success of Iowa schools when determining teacher standards of the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Law. In a letter to Secretary Spellings, King and the Iowa Congressional delegation outlined the hypocrisy of NCLB goals if their enforcement impedes the opportunity for Iowan innovation and autonomy. King argues that Iowa, where the test scores are among the highest in the nation, should be an example for the rest of the nation, not be hindered by government regulation. The U.S. Department of Education (DOE) has threatened to withhold federal funds from Iowa’s education system for non-compliance with NCLB, even though the Iowa Department of Education has been in close contact with DOE official while shaping Iowa requirements for new elementary school teachers. Even though the DOE has introduced a “flexible” enforcement plan for NCLB requirements, they are threatening to withhold federal funds from Iowa schools. King believes this is wrong. Iowa has been working with the DOE to address its concerns about Iowa’s NCLB requirements. “Iowa’s schools and our teachers are among the best in the nation,” said King. “We value teachers who teach and motivate our children, but who also bring crucial skills to the classroom, such as teaching ability and communication with parents. Despite working with the feds on our requirements, apparently, they don’t believe those skills are important. This is government regulation at its worst.” King, an opponent of NCLB, has said he would have opposed the bill if he had been in Congress when it passed. He is the husband of a long-time Iowa teacher.
06.08.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King, a member of the House Victory in Iraq caucus, today released the following statement regarding the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi: “From a year ago until today, our intelligence is receiving a magnitude of ten times the number of intelligence tips from the Iraqi people. This is the result of our men and women of the U.S. military doing what they said they would do: spread freedom throughout Iraq, liberate the Iraqis from oppression and invigorate the Iraqi people to defend themselves. “I commend the Iraqi special forces, the new government and the Iraqi people who decided they were tired of terrorists taking over their neighborhoods and derailing the progress of free life in their country. “The world is safer today because a brutal, malicious man who would rather see people tormented and suffer is gone. Abu Musab al-Zarqawi has released his last tape and tortured his last person. “The War on Terror is not over, but the death of the leader of operations in the al Qaeda terror network is a blow to terrorism all over the world. The United States has been unwavering in our message to terrorists around the world: your days are numbered.”
06.07.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—With the support of U.S. Congressman Steve King, today the U.S. House passed the Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act, which would increase fines for radio and television stations that broadcast indecent and offensive material. “The raunchy material on the public airwaves that violates our laws inevitably reaches our families and children,” said King. “No longer should we be afraid to turn on the radio or TV in front of our children because those indecent broadcasters will pay the price for breaking the law.” The Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act would raise Federal Communications Commission fines from $32,500 to $325,000 per violation. King serves on the House Judiciary Committee and is a member of the House Values Action Team.
06.07.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King, who is an original co-sponsor of the Constitutional amendment in the House to protect the institution of marriage as the union between a man and a woman, today issued the following statement regarding the cloture vote in the U.S. Senate on a Constitutional amendment to protect marriage: “A majority in the Senate voted to protect marriage today. Marriage is the building block of the family, of community and of society. The American people, the states and the President have all told Washington lawmakers that we value marriage, its benefits and values to a successful society, and we expect marriage to be defended. “While domestic issues should be left to the states, un-elected activist judges are trying to change the definition of marriage, which has been a bond between a man and a woman since the very first man and woman were created in the image of God. “I urge my colleagues to bring this amendment to the U.S. House to put all of Congress on record where they stand in the defense of marriage and the family.” Constitutional amendments require approval of a two-thirds vote in both houses of Congress and ratification by 38 states. Forty-five states have already acted with legislation regarding the definition of marriage. King serves on the House Judiciary Committee and is a member of the House Values Action Team.
06.06.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—Tonight the U.S. House approved an amendment offered by U.S. Reps. Steve King (IA-05) and John Campbell (CA-48) to help all levels of law enforcement work toward the same end and enforce federal immigration laws. The amendment, as part of H.R. 5441, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2007, would not require new duties for state and local law enforcement officers, but would refuse federal funding for states and localities that have sanctuary policies to harbor illegal aliens. The amendment would help the federal government enforce current law that makes it illegal for state and local governments to prevent their police officers from sending information to, or receiving information from, federal enforcement authorities about the immigration status of foreign nationals that they encounter in the course of their police duties. Oftentimes, local and state law enforcement will come across illegal aliens when apprehending criminals, but local rules prevent them from following federal law and reporting criminal illegal aliens to federal authorities. “No police officer should be barred from contacting federal immigration authorities about a criminal alien suspect because their jurisdiction has a sanctuary policy that protects criminal illegal aliens,” said King. “Victims would not have to endure a violent or sexual crime by a criminal alien, who had already come in contact with local police, if those police officers had been allowed to do their jobs and contact federal authorities.” “When sanctuary cities refuse to share information with federal officials, those cities jeopardize national security and the safety of citizens in other cities. This amendment will help end this dangerous practice,” said Campbell. “I appreciate the hard work of Congressman King and the other members of Congress who joined in the effort to pass this amendment.” H.R. 5441 will provide funds to strengthen border security, port security and increased cargo screening, and disaster preparedness based on the lessons of Hurricane Katrina.
06.02.2006	For Immediate Release SIOUX CITY – U.S. Congressman Steve King today welcomed a group of new American citizens as they were sworn into citizenship during a naturalization ceremony. King participated in a ceremony where Judge O’Brien naturalized immigrants at the Sioux City federal courthouse. King, an advocate of welcoming new immigrants to the American dream by helping them learn English and assimilate, congratulated the immigrants and discussed the responsibilities of citizenship. Following are excerpts of King’s address: “I believe that the decision you have made will impact your lives and the lives of others in ways that no one can possibly predict. “One hundred years ago, my grandmother came by ship to the United States from Germany. During the voyage, her sister Annie died. It was years later that my family discovered that Annie had not been buried at sea, but that her body was sealed in a box and brought to the place of her destination, America. Her box was carried from the ship, which was docked near Ellis Island, New York, to her final resting place at Rock Branch Cemetery in Iowa. Demonstrating their commitment to their adopted land, they expected all succeeding family members to be raised here. “My grandmother raised six sons in Iowa. Because of their respect for this country, and the freedom it represents, four of her sons returned to Germany to serve in the United States military during World War II. They risked their lives fighting their mother’s homeland, whose leader embodied the very thing they fled; oppression. “The freedom and opportunity that was available and precious to every immigrant arriving to our shores back then remains the same today. Every new United States citizen brings with them the expectation of free and prosperous new lives. Your presence here enriches us as a nation. Each new United States citizen sacrifices the past for the hope of the American Dream. Finding the American Dream depends on what each individual makes of his or her life. “When you experience the Statue of Liberty, a church service, a baseball game, or a political event, you also experience the common American belief in the importance of individual rights. I invite you to come to Washington, DC and gaze upon the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and the many historical displays that reveal American history and the spirit of our Founding Fathers. These are the things that define the American Dream and make this country great. “Recently I visited a wounded American soldier who had served in Iraq. He said something that I will never forget. He said that he would go back again because it was worth the sacrifice to see people be set free from tyranny. “The fact that each of you in this room made an individual choice to become an American citizen, motivates those of us who are citizens by birth to appreciate the blessings we enjoy. Your example strengthens our resolve to stand together for the preservation of freedom. I encourage you to become informed about the important issues confronting us as Americans and exercise your right to vote. This is one of the most important rights of an American citizen. Your contribution to the election process will help strengthen our democracy. “Thank you for choosing America as your home. May God bless you and may God continue to bless America.”
05.30.2006	For Immediate Release King Calls Upon USPS Inspector General to Investigate Sioux City Postal Center Consolidation Washington, D.C.– Iowa Congressman Steve King is calling on the Inspector General of the Postal Service to rethink the study used by the Postal Service to push for consolidation of the Sioux City mail processing center to South Dakota by asking the Inspector General of the Postal Service to investigate the situation. After numerous meetings with postal officials, Siouxland businesses and affected residents, King is concerned that the Postal Service’s consolidation plan is not justified because it does not make good business sense. King rallied the support of Senators Grassley and Harkin on a letter they sent today to the Inspector General. “The Postal Service has rushed to judgment. I demand that they stop any consolidation plans until an investigation is conducted by an outside entity. They have not fully evaluated the costs associated with consolidation. The AMP study that the Postal Service used to justify this proposed consolidation did not consider several important cost factors that should have been part of any fundamental cost-benefit business analysis. I hope an investigation by an independent party can help the Postal Service and the people of Sioux City determine the most efficient and cost effective solution to this situation.” Also today, the Iowa lawmakers, through a letter, requested the Postmaster General halt any possible consolidation of the Sioux City mail processing center until an investigation is conducted by the Inspector General. The text of the letter to United States Postal Service Inspector General follows. Mr. David Williams Inspector General United States Postal Service 1735 N. Lynn St 10th Floor Arlington, VA 22209-2020 Mr. Williams: In November 2005, the Postal Service announced that it would begin conducting an Area Mail Processing (AMP) study at the Sioux City, Iowa, mail processing center to determine whether cost savings, process efficiencies, and increased service standards could be achieved by consolidating Sioux City’s mail processing operations into those of the mail processing center located in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. Throughout this AMP process, the community and business leaders of Sioux City have raised concerns about the nature of the analysis that the Postal Service has undertaken to determine whether a consolidation should be implemented. We also have been engaged in this dialogue with the community and Postal Service leadership throughout this process. We understand that you have important experience in this area and have recently published a report on Area Mail Processing Guidelines. In this report, you conducted reviews of pending AMPs and studied the business cases being made by the Postal Service for several specific locations. We are interested in having a similar review conducted by your office regarding the Sioux City case. Therefore, we respectfully request that you direct your staff to undertake a comprehensive review of the proposed Sioux City consolidation. The review would examine the methodology, analysis, and business case being used to justify this proposed consolidation. We further request that, before beginning this review, your staff meet with our aides so that they can assist you in defining the scope of the review. We are asking for this review because we believe that the business and community leaders of Sioux City have voiced reasonable, business-minded concerns about the validity of the proposed Sioux City to Sioux Falls consolidation. Specifically, Sioux City’s leaders have pointed out that the AMP does not require the Postal Service to consider important cost factors related to, among additional concerns, (1) the relocation of employees; (2) the disposal and/or re-allocation of physical plant assets and infrastructure that have been acquired by the Postal Service in Sioux City; (3) the increased costs that would be placed on the Postal Service’s transportation resources and infrastructure; and (4) the unspecified but anticipated additional costs for land and construction at the Sioux Falls facility. Therefore, we believe that a decision to move Sioux City’s mail processing operations to Sioux Falls without such information would be unjustifiable from a business perspective. In addition, the community and we are also concerned that such a move would neither improve the Postal Service’s efficiency nor mail delivery quality of service. We have notified the Postmaster General about our request and have asked that the Postal Service refrain from issuing any final decision on the Sioux City AMP until you and your staff have completed the requested review and presented your findings upon its completion. We look forward to your prompt response to this request and to your timely completion of this investigation.
05.26.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—Congressman King today voted to relieve Iowans of crippling high energy prices by increasing U.S. domestic energy supply and decreasing U.S. dependence on foreign oil. With King’s support, today the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5429, the American-Made Energy and Good Jobs Act, which will authorize gas exploration and open a .01% segment of Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) to development of its large supplies of oil. “Right now we are importing the majority of our oil from unstable foreign sources and that puts this country’s financial and national security in a dangerous position,” said King. “We’ve held off on taking control of our own oil supply for far too long and we can’t wait a minute longer.” King has long advocated that the U.S. must take charge of its own energy security by reducing its dependence on foreign oil and increasing domestic oil supply. Currently, the U.S. imports almost two-thirds of its oil. The U.S. Energy Information Agency reports that energy development in ANWR would increase domestic production by nearly 20% by 2025. In addition, ANWR contains enough oil to replace Saudi Arabian imports for nearly 30 years. Exploration in ANWR will be limited to a small number of acres and conducted under the most stringent environmental protection requirements ever applied to a federal energy project. The production and development of ANWR would bring with it hundreds of thousands of new jobs, boosting the economies of Alaska and our nation. Highlights of H.R. 5429, the American-Made Energy and Good Jobs Act include: ? Institute an export ban requiring all oil and natural gas produced in ANWR’s northern Coastal Plain to stay in America. ? Invoke stringent environmental protections including requirements that the Department of the Interior establish regulations to ensure that drilling will have no significant adverse effect on fish and wildlife and their habitat. ? Institute a limit on the total surface area covered by drilling and production facilities to 2,000 acres.
05.25.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King today released the following statement regarding the immigration bill passed by the U.S. Senate today, which includes a path to citizenship for illegal aliens living in the United States: “Americans will not support this bill, because it has been branded with a scarlet letter A for amnesty. “The Senate is rewarding lawbreakers with the very prize they were seeking, citizenship. Apparently our laws mean nothing to the majority of the Senate. “Having enough cheap labor to do our dirty jobs isn’t a national security issue, controlling our borders is.”
05.17.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today hosted Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia at the Conservative Opportunity Society in Washington. King tapped the Associate Justice to be the guest speaker to the Conservative Opportunity Society. Justice Scalia has served on the Supreme Court since his appointment by President Ronald Reagan in 1986. “At a critical time for the future of the Constitution and the vision of our founding fathers, we can count on Justice Scalia’s dedication as a Constitutional originalist,” said King. “For that reason, he should serve as a model for all those who read, learn, teach, work and serve the public under the Constitution.” King is the elected chairman of the Conservative Opportunity Society, a prominent conservative Republican forum consisted solely of Members of Congress. The Conservative Opportunity Society is a 22-year-old organization that provided the common ground on which conservative Republican House members planned the revolution that ultimately captured majority control of the House in 1994. King joins the ranks of former Conservative Opportunity Society chairman and former Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich, who along with Republican "young Turk" conservatives, envisioned a forum for conservative House members to discuss and debate issues facing the country and develop legislative responses and tactics to lead Republicans out of decades of minority status. Years later, the "Contract With America" emerged as the watchword for the successful 1994 campaign that installed a GOP majority in the House for the first time in 40 years. COS hosts leading thinkers, opinion shapers and foreign and domestic policy officials. COS members meet each Wednesday morning when Congress is in session.
05.17.2006	For Immediate Release KING: TO STOP THE GROWTH OF FEDERAL SPENDING, WE MUST MAKE TOUGH DECISIONS NOW Washington, D.C.—Iowa Congressman Steve King last night urged his colleagues on the floor of the House of Representatives to support a balanced budget, reduce the federal deficit and put spending accountability back on Washington. The House by a vote of 218-210, passed the budget resolution, H. Con. Res. 376, for fiscal year 2007, which is intended to cut the deficit in half in three years. King issued the following statement on the Congressional Budget Resolution: “It is important that we set short-term, mid-term, and long-term priorities. Setting a budget is more than just numbers. It defines us by vision and priorities for this Nation. “I believe we can work together to reduce the deficit and still support a budget that provides for the common defense, helps us fight and win this war on terror, and promotes economic growth. “In addition, emergency spending, such as that for natural disasters, should be budgeted for to the best of our ability. We must set money aside for these unplanned events, because we are not really living under a true budget when spending can be taken off the table and isn’t part of our Federal budget. “There is nothing courageous or commendable about voting for deficits. True courage is exhibited by taking a tough stand and choosing to cut spending. “When it comes to federal programs, it is not how much money is spent, but what we spend the money on that counts. I believe we must chart an economic course in this nation that will not bankrupt our children and grandchildren. The easiest and best way to stop the growth of federal spending and give more money back to American families is to make these tough decisions now.” The Congressional Budget for FY 2007 would: ? Cut waste, fraud and abuse in government programs and require a mandatory savings of $6.8 billion over the next five years ? Keep the government on track top cut the deficit in half by 2009 ? Establish “rainy day” fund to better budget for natural disasters and emergencies
05.16.2006	For Immediate Release KING COMMENTS ON ENGLISH AS THE OFFICIAL LANGUAGE AMENDMENT PASSES IN SENATE Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) issued the following statement regarding the Senate passing the Inhofe amendment to make English the official language of the United States. “The Senate demonstrated their overwhelming support for English as our official language. For years, immigrants have known that learning English is the difference between finding their own American dream or living in a linguistic enclave. The only way to fully learn about American culture, and what makes America truly unique, is through our common bond of the English language. “America is the land of opportunity, and we want to create better opportunities for our immigrants by helping them learn English.” King introduced the House bill with bipartisan support, the English Language Unity Act, H.R. 997, to make English the official language. H.R. 997 has 150 cosponsors. In his address to the nation on Monday, President Bush emphasized the need to unify our nation through assimilation and our common English language.
05.15.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King released the following reaction to the President’s speech tonight on U.S. immigration policy: “Sovereign nations must define their borders, and if we can’t enforce our borders, then a military presence is necessary. Securing our borders is one component of an overall comprehensive immigration policy, which must include enforcing our borders, constructing a fence, compelling employers to hire legal workers, and removing the jobs and birthright magnets that attract illegal aliens here in the first place.” “Americans are fed up with a government that does not enforce our laws. Although there were two very well-publicized employer raids recently, the government did not sanction one employer in 2004 for hiring illegal aliens. Americans are fed up with the fact that American jobs are given to illegal aliens who will work dirt cheap. They are fed up with our porous borders that leave gaping holes in our national security. I believe the President and the Senate are mistaken if they decide to allow millions of people here to be rewarded with amnesty for breaking the law. “Illegal immigration and the problems that come with it – crime, human and drug smuggling - will not go away simply by opening up the doors and saying "come on in!" History has shown no indication that illegal immigration will subside until everyone from there who wants to come here is here. “This country, like every sovereign nation, has its own culture. Americans expect new immigrants to learn English to fully assimilate into our society and share our culture. When we can help them assimilate, law-abiding immigrants to this country will be able to fully pursue the American dream.” King’s bill, H.R. 997, would make English the official language of the United States. The bill has 150 co-sponsors and is one of the most supported bills in the House.
05.10.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—With the support of U.S. Congressman Steve King, last night the U.S. House passed the Respect for America’s Fallen Heroes Act, H.R. 5037, to ban demonstrations 60 minutes before and after funerals taking place at nation veterans’ cemeteries or Arlington National Cemetery. In Iowa and across the nation, organized groups of war protesters use the funerals of soldiers killed in the War on Terror as a backdrop to berate the family and give them messages such as “God hates you.” King was an original co-sponsor of the Respect for America’s Fallen Heroes Act, which would also enforce a 500-foot restriction on demonstrations in these locations, impose a Class A misdemeanor for violations with financial penalties or jail time, and encourage all states to enact similar bans for state and private ceremonies. “The funerals of our sons and daughters are not the place for hateful demonstrations,” said King. “Those men and women were killed in the line of duty to defend our freedoms. We owe it to our military families who sacrifice so much for this country and we will protect them those hours of mourning.” The provisions in the bill are consistent with several U.S. Supreme Court rulings, such as Frisby v. Schultz (1988), where the Court ruled that “the First Amendment permits the government to prohibit offensive speech as intrusive when the ‘captive’ audience cannot avoid the objectionable speech.” Respect for America’s Fallen Heroes Act is supported by: American Veterans (AMVETS), Disabled American Veterans, Fleet Reserve Association, Jewish War Veterans of the USA, Military Order of the Purple Heart and the Veterans of Foreign Wars.
05.10.2006	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C.—Another Iowan has joined the alumni of Capitol Hill interns. Jennie Kunkle, 18, an Abraham Lincoln High School senior from Council Bluffs, is completing her internship this week in King’s Washington office. Kunkle’s internship is out of the ordinary for Capitol Hill, where the internship jobs are normally awarded only to college students. Kunkle moved to Washington temporarily to begin her work on Congressman King’s staff in January. Kunkle was able to begin her internship this spring, after finishing her high school coursework a semester early. “Jennie has proven her professionalism and preparedness for the working world,” said King. “If Jennie is what Iowa has to offer our country, I have full confidence in our future leaders.” Kunkle, the daughter of Randie and James Kunkle of Council Bluffs, will be graduating from Abraham Lincoln this month. In the fall she plans to attend the University of Nebraska-Lincoln to study political science and economics. Kunkle has long been involved in her community. She is the founder of the Pottawattamie County Teenage Republican Society and volunteered on the 2004 presidential campaign. Throughout her high school career, she participated in the marching band, the swim team and held a part-time job at the YMCA and at the Finishline sporting goods store. “I’ve been fortunate to participate in lot of things here that most high school seniors haven’t been able to do yet,” said Kunkle. “It’s been eye-opening to see how hard all the people here work for their districts.” Kunkle added that she hopes to return to Washington and run for Congress one day.
05.05.2006	For Immediate Release In its budget request to Congress, the USDA indicated plans to eliminate all appropriations for the farm loan program and replace them with user fees. Although the budget request has called the new fees “modest,” some estimates show the new fees would be four or five times higher than the current fees. In a letter sent to Secretary Johanns this week, King and 25 of his Congressional colleagues urged the Secretary to reconsider any plans to overhaul the FSA guaranteed farm loan program. “The farm loan program is an efficient and cost-effective way to get beginning farmers and farmers with financial difficulties the capital they need,” said King. “It’s common sense those farmers in particular can’t afford these increased costs, especially when input prices are at record levels for farmers.” “We can’t afford to shut out any young farmer hoping to break into the business,” added King. According to the USDA, one-half of American farmers are over age 55. King serves on the House Agriculture Committee and the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management.
05.04.2006	For Immediate Release The House yesterday passed H.R. 4975, the Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act, which aims to create more rules on lobbyist dealings with Congress. The bill would put more restrictions on lobbying disclosure requirements and gifts and temporarily suspend privately- funded travel for the current Congress. “If Congress was aiming to put on a good show to restore public confidence in an election year, then it did its job,” said King. “However, if we want to be serious about making sure Americans know what goes on in Washington and return the lawmaking process back to the people, as it was intended, we would open it up for public scrutiny, and let the people be the whistle-blowers on any Washington dealings that they object to.” King has introduced his own bill, the Sunlight Act, H.R. 4967, which would require privately-funded Congressional travel to be pre-approved by the Committee on Standards and require the travel to be reported within five days to the public through the internet. The Sunlight Act would also require financial disclosures filed by Members of Congress and staff to specifically detail their financial interests. Currently, financial disclosure forms only require public officials to disclose their financial assets in broad dollar amount ranges. For example, the current form allows officials to disclose their assets in a category as broad as: $100,001 - $250,000, $250,001 - $500,000, $500,001 - $1,000,000, $5,000,001 - $25,000,000, $25,000,001 - $50,000,000 or “Over $50,000,000.” The King bill requires an exact amount. In addition, King’s bill would simplify the lawmaking process for the public to see and give the public more time to contact their representatives before a bill is voted on. It requires any bill, resolution or conference report to be available on the internet to the public at least 48 hours before a vote. Amendments must be available on the internet before they are voted on. Currently, some bills and amendments are voted on without any public availability. It also calls for posting the subject of debate and vote on the House Chamber wall, to make it easier for the public to follow what is happening in the Chamber.
05.03.2006	For Immediate Release King today supported The Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act, H.R. 5253, to increase U.S. energy independence, which would have an impact of gas prices in the future. The bill failed today in the U.S. House of Representatives with almost all Democrats voting against the bill. Although the vote tally was 237 – 188, a two-thirds majority is required for the bill to pass. Gasoline prices have reached near-record levels in the past few weeks, due to worldwide pressures on supply, demand and geopolitics. This week, gas prices have hit an average of $2.75 per gallon in Iowa and $2.92 per gallon nationwide. H.R. 5253 would streamline the regulatory process for refinery expansion. Although petroleum use in the U.S. has increased, no refinery has been built in the U.S. since 1976. Experts and potential private investors say the reason for the lack of new refineries is the process and regulation uncertainty. “The pressure we are experiencing today is the result of legislative foot-dragging years ago,” said King. “While there’s no quick fix that will lower gas prices immediately, opening up the process so we can expand our domestic ability to refine oil will catch us up to our demand in the years to come. While this is one step in the right direction, there still is much to be done to expand the size of our domestic energy supply pie.” The Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act would have: Establish a federal coordinator who will convene all the players in all U.S. government agencies responsible for issuing permits to develop a facility and help them coordinate and expedite their schedules so that decisions on permits can move as quickly as our environmental and other laws will allow. Bring all federal and state agencies together in a coordinated capacity to make it easier to add fuel refining capacity. Eliminate needless bureaucratic delay in the permitting process for new or expanded gasoline, biofuel or distillate-processing facilities. Preserve the strict environmental standards that must be met for these facilities to be developed, including Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act and Resource Conservation Recovery Act requirements. King has long looked for ways to secure America’s energy independence. This winter, he assembled a bipartisan coalition of colleagues representing agricultural communities to find ways to lower energy costs. King is a member of the House Agriculture Committee and a founding co-chair of the House Ag Energy Users Caucus.
04.26.2006	For Immediate Release King is a co-sponsor of the Independence from Oil With Agriculture (IOWA) Act, introduced by Rep. Jim Nussle (IA-01). This week, gas prices have hit an average of $2.80 per gallon in Iowa and $2.91 per gallon nationwide. Some energy analysts have predicted gas could reach $5.00 per gallon by the end of this summer. The IOWA Act would raise the federal renewable fuels standard nearly sixty percent. King said the pressure at the pump is the result of a combination of many factors, including a heavy environmental lobby over the past thirty years, the shift in geopolitics and new competition for us with countries of high energy demand, like China and Russia. “We can’t wait a minute longer,” said King. “If we take advantage of what we’ve been producing here in Iowa for years, we have a chance to increase the size of our domestic energy supply pie which will reduce our dependence on foreign, unstable oil. It’s something that should have been used a long time ago.” The Independence from Oil With Agriculture (IOWA) Act would: ? Increase the Renewable Fuels Standard from 7.5 billion gallons to 12 billion gallons by 2012 -- nearly a 60% increase ? Expand the availability of E85 by providing a permanent tax credit for the installation of E85 tanks ? Permanently extend the Small Producer Ethanol Tax Credit ? Permanently extend the Biodiesel Production Tax Credit ? Permanently extend the Renewable Energy Income Tax Credit for utility providers King authored language to extend the small ethanol producer tax credit to producers of up to 60 million gallons per year, and it was signed into law last summer. King also authored language to expand to small biodiesel producers a ten-cent-per-gallon tax credit, which is now part of U.S. energy policy. King has long looked for ways to secure America’s energy independence. This winter, he assembled a bipartisan coalition of colleagues representing agricultural communities to find ways to lower energy costs. King is a member of the House Agriculture Committee and a founding co-chair of the House Ag Energy Users Caucus.
04.21.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa The volunteers were recognized by King for their leadership in areas that ranged from the organization of donations and supplies in northwest Iowa to rescue and recovery in the gulf region. King presented the local Chapter with an American flag flown in their honor over the Capitol in Washington, D.C. “The images we saw on TV and in the newspaper last fall stunned every person in this country,” said King. “This exceptional group of people could not just sit and watch, but they tirelessly worked to help their fellow Americans. They make all of us very proud to be Iowans.” When Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma ravaged the gulf coast last fall, Red Cross was among the first to respond. Nationwide, the Red Cross mobilized more than 225,000 Red Cross workers to the region to provide shelter, food, water. Ninety-five percent of the Red Cross labor force is volunteer.
04.21.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa At the request of King, and Senators Grassley and Harkin, postal officials met yesterday with Sioux City residents. King has stated the meeting was too little and too late and did nothing to help bring Sioux City residents into the process. Immediately following the meeting, Senators Grassley and Harkin joined Rep. King on a letter sent today to the Postmaster General, requesting a meeting with the Congressional delegation to address how the Postal Service can better work with residents of Sioux City and release the results of the study, which the Postal Service has kept secret from the public, to community and business leaders. In addition, the letter directs the Postmaster General to hold all consolidation plans in the nation until the Postal Reform Bill is passed through Congress.
04.20.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Sioux City - U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today released the following statement following the meeting of today’s postal officials to discuss with the public a potential consolidation of the Sioux City mail processing center: “This meeting was too little and too late. It has taken five months for the Postal Service to even invite questions from the people who would be affected by losing our mail processing center. At no point in this process has the Postal Service been up-front or honest with the residents of Sioux City. If the Washington bureaucrats have already made up their minds and stamped this deal to ax our mail center without telling the public the real truth, transparency in our government has been lost. I will continue to do everything possible to pry away the government secrecy and demand from the Postal Service real information, accountability and the opportunity for Sioux City to have a voice in this process. ‘There is legislation pending that has passed both houses of Congress, now in conference committee, that will require the USPS to present the plan to the public and provide an opportunity for input and potentially a competing plan before changes of this type can be approved. I am joining with our two senators in telling the USPS to await the outcome of the legislation before a final decision is made. Jumping the gun with a quick decision will be viewed as a flagrant attempt to circumvent the will of Congress.”
04.19.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa King kicked off his initiative today and interviewed two Sioux City veterans about their own war experiences. His goal is to motivate veterans of all wars in the Fifth District to contribute their personal stories for historians to preserve and educate American generations to come. King will deliver the stories and artifacts to the Library of Congress next week. Howard Gebhardt told King his story of serving in Burma during WWII. During Gebhardt’s stateside training, he successfully landed his plane after sustaining a gunshot wound to the head. King also interviewed Bob Mahon, who told his personal story of serving during the Korean War. “I feel every single person who has defended our liberties at war is a hero to our country,” said King. “We must make sure we document these stories about the work and sacrifice of Iowans who have served this country as soon as possible.” King created the Fifth District War Heroes Project in conjunction with the Veterans History Project at the Library of Congress. The Library is requesting video or audiotape interviews with war veterans, as well as personal artifacts, such as photos or letters home. As the average age of WWII veterans increases, America loses 1,500 first-hand witnesses to that important period in World history every day. Those interested in contributing personal stories and artifacts to the Fifth District Heroes Project may contact King’s Spencer office at (712) 580-7754.
04.12.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Caroll – Iowa Congressman Steve King released the following statement regarding Income Tax Day, this year falling on Monday, April 17th: “As disgruntled Americans fill out the endless pages of forms, write a large check to the U.S. Treasury, then stand in line to deposit our hard-earned dollars into the black hole of the mail slot, we are reminded of the money we make that we never see. “But it’s more than just an annual annoyance. This year at tax time, as the debate about what to do with millions of illegal immigrants in this country looms over the nation, we are reminded again that our paychecks support millions of people who use our social services without contributing their portion of taxes. “There is one way to solve this input-output imbalance. A tax system based on consumption, rather than productivity, would ensure that illegal aliens, criminals, drug dealers and those that make their living on the black market equally contribute to the system. When they purchase new homes, cars, clothes or services, these individuals will contribute their fair share to the federal treasury. “The FairTax system has earned the support of Americans around the country who want a fairer simpler system of taxation. Not only will a national sales tax eliminate the IRS and its first lien on all productivity, it will guarantee that everyone who spends contributes to the government’s coffers. However, because wage earners would keep 100% of their paycheck, Americans can decide for themselves how much they will pay in taxes each year, providing a tax system that is fair for Americans at every income level. In addition to these benefits, under the FairTax, it will cost less for the federal government to generate the same amount of revenue. “Washington has the opportunity to fundamentally change our burdensome and destructive tax code. When hard working Americans are freed from the income tax, Income Tax Day will become just another day.”
04.06.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa “An animal ID system is crucial to providing an immediate response mechanism in the case of disease. I would rather see a mandatory system created and run by the people it will affect, instead of run by the government. While creating this system, it is important that we ensure the United States’ place in the world market and protect our livestock producers’ proprietary carcass information.” King has introduced H.R. 3170, the Livestock Identification and Marketing Opportunities (LIMO) Act, which would establish a producer-controlled national identification system for the livestock industry that would be run by stakeholders.
04.05.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. - As the Iowa legislature passed a bill Tuesday to prohibit protesters at military funerals, U.S. Congressman Steve King is supporting a federal effort in Congress to the same end. In Iowa and across the nation, organized groups of war protesters use the funerals of soldiers killed in the War on Terror as a backdrop to berate the family and give them messages such as “God hates you.” King is an original co-sponsor of the Respect for America’s Fallen Heroes Act, H.R. 5037, which would ban demonstrations 60 minutes prior to and after funerals taking place at Veterans’ National Cemeteries or Arlington National Cemetery. The bill would also enforce a 500-foot restriction on demonstrations in these locations, impose a Class A Misdemeanor for violations with financial penalties or jail time, and encourage all states to enact similar bans for state and private ceremonies. “These hateful groups only seek to stain the integrity and the memory of our sons and daughters killed in the line of fire defending our freedoms,” said King. “We must always protect our military families in their hour of need and mourning.” The provisions in the bill are consistent with several U.S. Supreme Court rulings, such as Frisby v. Schultz (1988), where the Court ruled that “the First Amendment permits the government to prohibit offensive speech as intrusive when the ‘captive’ audience cannot avoid the objectionable speech.” Respect for America’s Fallen Heroes Act is supported by: American Veterans (AMVETS), Disabled American Veterans, Fleet Reserve Association, Jewish War Veterans of the USA, Military Order of the Purple Heart and the Veterans of Foreign Wars.
04.03.2006	For Immediate Release KING SURVEYS IMPACT OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION FIRSTHAND AT SAN DIEGO BORDER HEARING Washington, D.C. – Iowa Congressman Steve King, a Member of the House Judiciary Committee, attended the Judiciary Committee’s first field immigration hearing Wednesday and surveyed “Smuggler’s Gulch” along the San Diego/ Tijuana border. The hearing was about the impact of illegal immigration on U.S. taxpayers. The majority of illegals have less than a high school education, and take out more in social services than what they pay in taxes. The Committee also found that the Senate’s Reid-Kennedy amnesty plan would substantially burden education, health care, law enforcement and federal government assistance programs. “I watched a sector of the border that falls prey to trafficking and illegal trespass,” said King. “The witnesses told us firsthand of the financial burden that illegal immigration puts on their communities. They also told us how amnesty would make this bad situation worse. Every Member of Congress should see and hear this before charting immigration policy.” The witnesses who testified to the Committee included an LA. County Supervisor, Hon. Michael D. Antonovich, Chief Financial Officer for the University Medical Center in Tucson, Arizona, Mr. Kevin J. Burns, government social services scholar, Mr. Robert Rector, Los Angeles County Sheriff, Mr. Leroy Baca, and professor from the University of California, San Deigo, Wayne Cornelius. The U.S. House is bringing the immigration reform debate out of Washington and to the American people through a series of immigration reform field hearings held across the country. Various House Committees, including the Education and Reform, Homeland Security, International Relations and Judiciary Committees are holding the hearings. King serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Immigration Subcommittee, which oversees immigration law and the Immigration Reform Caucus. The Judiciary Committee will convene an immigration hearing in Dubuque, Iowa on September 1st.
03.31.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— As the debate over legal and illegal immigration looms over Washington this week, Congressman Steve King (R-IA) is highlighting the growing grassroots opposition to requirements that election ballots be printed in languages other than English. Current provisions of the Voting Rights Act (VRA) require election ballots to be printed in multiple languages. The VRA is slated to be reauthorized by Congress this year. King and Homeland Security Chairman Peter King are spearheading a large group of their House colleagues to ensure that these provisions are not included in the reauthorization. The group of 56 lawmakers have expressed concern that the multilingual ballot requirements are inconsistent with the naturalization process, which requires legal immigrants to learn English to become citizens. “English is the language of opportunity,” said King. “Multilingual ballots encourage a linguistic divide in our nation and discourage law-abiding immigrants from learning English to naturalize and assimilate into our society.” A coalition of 26 grassroots organizations, including ProEnglish and the Eagle Forum, have also banded together to pressure Chairman Sensenbrenner of the House Judiciary Committee, who has jurisdiction over the issue, to oppose the VRA section requiring multilingual ballots. In addition, a new Zogby poll unveiled today shows a majority of Americans would prefer election ballots to be printed only in English. King said multilingual ballots increase the risk of errors and fraud. For example, in a 2000 election, six poll sites in Flushing, NY, printed ballots in Chinese with the names of the political parties reversed. In addition, he said they are unnecessary, because voters needing help may already bring their translator into the voting booth, according to current federal law.
03.30.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King today joined with a group of House colleagues calling on the Senate to pass enforcement first immigration reform and look to the rule of law. The group gathered today to bring the demands of the American people to the attention of the Senate. King released the following statement. “If the Senate actually thinks we are going to stand here and believe that temporary workers will return home once their worker permit expires, they are sorely mistaken. If they keep on handing out amnesty, the flood across our borders will not let up, it will increase. “There has never been a successful temporary worker program in history. There cannot be one here now. Legalizing the illegals is illogical. Enforcing our laws is logical. “The core strength of America has always been an ever-broadening middle class. Wealthy investors, the new ruling class, are getting rich from cheap illegal labor. Illegal labor is becoming the new servant class, who works in the factories, manicures nails and lawns, and cleans the mansions of the new ruling class. Most of the jobs that are now being done by illegals were done by blue collar middle class citizens, the new endangered species.”
03.22.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa KING: SIOUX CITY METH TRAINING CENTER RECEIVES FEDERAL EARMARK Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King announced the National Training Center in Sioux City on Friday will receive the official award for a federal earmark of $987,228 from the Bureau of Justice Assistance of the Department of Justice. The project funding is the result of King’s efforts with the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee that has funding jurisdiction over Science, the Department of State, Justice and Commerce and Related Agencies. “I never let Congressional leadership forget the impact of our National Training Center on law enforcement and communities across the nation and our nation-wide fight against meth,” said King. Last December, King met with city leaders and Sioux City Police Department to work on a strategy for long-term appropriations and authorization. While a federal earmark does not grant long-term funding, it will go towards operations for Fiscal Year 2006.
03.21.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa BRAZIL -Congressman King and Senator Grassley are meeting with South American agriculture officials this week on the trade positions of Brazil and Argentina in WTO negotiations. The pair is working in these competitive export countries this week as part of a small congressional delegation led by Grassley. The group plans to examine trade, environment, alternative energy, transportation and intellectual property issues in talks with officials this week. “I’m pushing the authorities here for strong promotion of GMO soybeans, so together, we can get world acceptance for U.S. GMO soybeans,” said King. “We hope to discuss moving forward with WTO negotiations with the agriculture and trade authorities, so we can consider these outcomes in the writing of the 2007 Farm Bill. We want to ensure WTO negotiations are fair and U.S. has sufficient market access. Right now I’m concerned that other countries like Brazil have more of an advantage in trade negotiations,” added King. King currently serves on the House Agriculture Committee and the Subcommittee on Conservation, Credit, Rural Development and Research, Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management and the Subcommittee on Livestock and Horticulture.
03.21.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa WASHINGTON – Iowa Congressman Steve King was recently named “Friend of the Taxpayers” for 2005 from the National Taxpayers Union, which ranked him in the top 30 Members of the House on votes for fiscal accountability. The organization publishes a scorecard of hundreds of roll call votes by Congressional Members on federal tax, spending and regulatory issues for the year. According to the NTU, King received an “A” for consistently voting to reduce and control the burden on American taxpayers. "Steve King's top-notch performance in 2005 is just the kind of fiscal discipline we need in the 109th Congress to make headway against the federal deficit while continuing to deliver the tax relief Iowans deserve,” said John Berthoud, President of the National Taxpayers Union. “Congressman King's "A" grade should also serve as an inspiration to his House colleagues -- in the Iowa delegation and the rest of the House -- that limited government can be brought back to Washington if everyone is willing to make it their number one priority," added Berthoud. The Congressional scorecard includes 201 House votes that could “significantly affect the amount of federal taxes, spending, debt or regulatory impact,” according to the organization.
03.17.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Steve King said today that a mandatory national livestock identification system would allow the U.S. to drill down to specific animal history information in the instance of a positive case of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) or other animal diseases in the U.S. Yesterday, the USDA confirmed the evidence of BSE in tests on an Alabama cow. “If we had a mandatory national ID system in place, we would already know the full background of this animal from birth to slaughter,” said King. “With the click of a mouse, we would have already pinpointed each location of the animal.” King authored H.R. 3170, the Livestock Identification and Marketing Opportunities (LIMO) Act, which would establish a producer-controlled national identification system for the livestock industry that would be run by stakeholders. King created the LIMO Act to provide an immediate response mechanism for animal disease control, ensure the U.S. place in the world market, protect our livestock producers and provide a framework for producers and breeders to capitalize on their proprietary carcass information. LIMO would establish a Livestock Identification Board to launch and maintain the livestock identification system. Participation in the system would be mandatory for cattle, swine, sheep, goats and poultry. The members of the Board would represent each industry, the USDA and State or tribal agriculture agencies. In addition, under King’s bill, livestock and premises information collected for the system will be by law exempted from the Freedom of Information Act. King has been researching the bill since he was elected to Congress. He investigated the operating livestock identification systems and met with producers in Australia and Canada, the leaders among countries with established livestock identification systems. He also spoke with their agriculture industries about their successes and mistakes. In addition, King gathered input from across the U.S. livestock industry.
03.17.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King last night voted “no” on an emergency supplemental funding bill in the U.S. House. The emergency supplemental bill passed the House, despite 71 Members’ opposition. It directs $91.9 billion in supplemental funding for fiscal 2006 to the Department of Defense, the War on Terror and rebuilding efforts after Hurricane Katrina. King supported an amendment that would remove the hurricane funding from the War on Terror spending bill. The intention of the amendment was to instill fiscal sanity and ensure Katrina and War on Terror funding would be considered in stand alone bills. That amendment failed. “I will support funding for the War on Terror and for the devastated people of the southeast to be used effectively to rebuild,” said King. “Congressional leadership crammed Katrina funding into Department of Defense funding in a war time, because they knew that if it stood alone, it wouldn’t pass. Funding for both defense and Katrina deserve their own votes in Congress. ” “We can’t keep thinking that without an organized rebuilding plan, continuing to spend more billions on top of billions might somehow change the situation and things will work out on their own,” added King.
03.16.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Steve King is calling on his colleagues to put their votes where their newspaper headlines are and support his bill to open law-making to expose financial interests and make it easier for the public to observe the process and be involved. This week, King introduced the Sunlight Act, H.R. 4967, which would require privately-funded Congressional travel to be pre-approved by the Committee on Standards and require the travel to be reported within five days to the public through the internet. “Show us the money in politics,” said King. “The only way we can have a government truly responsive to the people is to arm people with information.” The Sunlight Act would also require financial disclosures filed by Members of Congress and staff to specifically detail their financial interests. Currently, financial disclosure forms only require public officials to disclose their financial assets in broad dollar amount ranges. For example, the current form allows officials to disclose their assets in a category as broad as: $100,001 - $250,000, $250,001 - $500,000, $500,001 - $1,000,000, $5,000,001 - $25,000,000, $25,000,001 - $50,000,000 or “Over $50,000,000.” The King bill requires an exact amount. In addition, King’s bill would simplify the lawmaking process for the public to see and give the public more time to contact their representatives before a bill is voted on. It requires any bill, resolution or conference report to be available on the internet to the public at least 48 hours before a vote. Amendments must be available on the internet before they are voted on. Currently, some bills and amendments are voted on without any public availability. It also calls for posting the subject of debate and vote on the House Chamber wall, to make it easier for the public to follow what is happing in the Chamber. “Making laws is a public process that requires input from the people it will impact. We must shine sunlight onto the process,” added King.
03.15.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.-- U.S. Congressman Steve King and a Glenwood farmer today spoke for the interests of economies surrounding the Missouri River at a hearing on the Missouri River Spring rise. The House Small Business Subcommittee on Rural Enterprise, Agriculture, and Technology, of which King is a member, today held a hearing entitled, “The Missouri River and its Spring Rise: Science or Science Fiction.” King introduced David Sieck, a family farmer from Glenwood, who testified at the hearing about the need for sound science regarding the pallid sturgeon. Following is an excerpt of King’s speech: “I commend the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for acknowledging that the water levels did not support conducting 2006 spring pulse releases due to insufficient water in the upstream reservoirs, actual and projected river stages in the lower basin and weather forecasts that indicate a low risk for rain events across the lower river basin. “The situation involving the Missouri River is what has piqued my interest in the Endangered Species Act (ESA). In the past, the courts have ruled that the ESA supersedes Congressional intent to provide for flood control and navigation along the Missouri River, which Congress enacted in 1944. This has brought grave distress to the region because of the uncertainty this ruling creates. In order to protect the habitat and increase the spawning habits of protected species on the river, the Army Corp of Engineers has the authority to lower or raise water levels to points that would not support navigation. This uncertainty in river flows, in the past, has caused major shippers to cancel their Missouri River operations, and has caused extreme alarm for farmers in the Missouri River flood plain. Iowa farmers and small business owners have to live with these uncertainties year in and out. “The financial burden this uncertainty creates is just another problem facing farmers in Iowa who continually face season after season of drought and rising energy prices. Shipping crops via barge traffic is the cheapest and most efficient form of transportation for farmers. I have spent my life’s work in conservation through my earth moving construction company. I know first hand that farmers do not want to limit their harvest because of an endangered weed located on their property, especially when their family depends on a successful season. It is time to repeal this broken law and improve it so we preserve the rights of our private landowners. “It is upon the basis of sound science that Missouri River stakeholders and species will arrive at win-win solutions to such complex issues. A Missouri River plan must balance the needs of everyone who lives and works along the river including farmers and property owners. Many frustrated farmers have stated that only the federal government can find a way to put your land underwater and leave you high and dry at the same time.”
03.15.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Steve King is supporting a bill which would award the Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Norman Borlaug of Cresco, Iowa. The bill would honor Borlaug for his breakthroughs in agricultural science. Borlaug developed a strain of wheat that could increase yields while resisting disease. In 1970, he earned the Nobel Prize, and he remains the only person awarded the prize for agricultural achievement. “Dr. Borlaug’s research on crops, especially wheat, has saved tens of millions of people from starvation,” said King. “He is among the greatest of Iowans.” King and the Iowa House delegation are supporting H.R. 4924, Congressional Tribute to Dr. Norman E. Borlaug Act of 2006, while Iowa’s Senators are supporting a companion bill in the U.S. Senate.
03.13.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa SIOUX CITY -- U.S. Congressman Steve King spent Thursday afternoon representing Iowa’s interests at the first-ever Tri-State Congressional Forum. The forum, held at Sioux City’s Western Iowa Tech Community College, was a chance for Siouxland residents, the members of the Siouxland Chamber and Congressional delegation to engage in a discussion about issues affecting the tri-state area. “The best time we can spend as legislators and representatives is listening to residents, and then take what we learn and get it done,” said King. “Every level of representation of this region has to be engaged and work toward a common goal. Those goals must be set with Siouxlanders.” King, the senior member of the Congressional delegation, said he wanted to focus on finding quality affordable health care for everyone and seeing the four-lane project of Highway 20 to completion. “Siouxland is no question one of the most attractive business climates in the country, but we have to make it convenient for people to conduct their business here, including sufficient transportation and the ability to attract and retain employees by offering quality healthcare,” added King. King is a long-time supporter of helping small businesses employers and employees retain health insurance. His bill in Congress, H.R. 37, the Health Insurance Affordability Act, would extend tax incentives to the premiums of individual purchasers of high-deductible plans combined with HSAs. He is also a supporter of H.R. 525, the Small Business Health Fairness Act, which would create Association Health Plans, allowing small businesses to pool their purchasing power to allow them to take advantage of the same discounts given to large corporations. The group also talked about the status of the Sioux City postmark. King has been lobbying the USPS to allow Sioux City to present a competing business plan before closing the mail processing center. King serves on the House Agriculture, Judiciary and Small Business Committees. He sought a special wavier to serve on the Small Business Committee to properly represent Iowa’s small business.
03.09.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King today offered an amendment with Reps. Rehberg, Boozman, Capito and Graves to dedicate a larger portion of drug control advertising to an anti-meth educational campaign. The amendment, which passed the House 399-9, was offered to H.R. 2829, Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Reauthorization Act. Following is the text of King’s speech to his colleagues in the House: “Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this amendment by Representatives Rehberg, Boozman, Capito, Graves and myself. “This amendment would dedicate 10% of the anti-drug ad campaign to winning the war on meth. Meth destroys our rural communities from the inside out. We need to make sure that people, especially our young people, get the message. Meth Kills. “In Iowa we are turning the tide in the war on meth, with an 80% reduction in the number of meth labs after passing a tough precursor law. Unfortunately, meth continues to pour in from Mexico. The dedicated dollars in this amendment will help stop people from using meth in the first place. Please vote yes.”
03.07.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King tonight addressed the U.S. House of Representatives to honor Marine First Sergeant Brad Kasal of Afton, Iowa, for his heroic actions to save his comrades during battle in Iraq. Following is the text of his speech: “Mr. Speaker, I am honored to deliver the story of an American hero, Marine First Sergeant Brad Kasal to this Chamber and the American people. “Sergeant Kasal was born in the small town of Afton, Iowa, where he was raised on a small family farm, and where he learned Midwestern values which would later become very evident during his service in the United States Marine Corps. “Sergeant Kasal is 39 years old and has already served three tours of duty in Iraq and Kuwait. He is a member of Weapons Company, Third Battalion, First Marine Regiment, also known as the “Thundering Third.” When you hear Sergeant Kasal’s story of courage and sacrifice, it is not surprising that he comes from a solid family of patriots who have also served our country. “Brad’s brother Jeff is a retired Army paratrooper who served our country in Operation Desert Storm with the 82nd Airborne and now works in Iraq; Brad’s brother Kelly served in the U.S. Army, and his brother Kevin also served in the U.S. Marine Corps. Fifty years ago, their father, Gerald, served in the Iowa Army National Guard. Even among the patriotic Kasal family, Sergeant Brad Kasal’s experiences set him apart. “During his three tours of duty in Iraq and Kuwait, Sergeant Kasal has received two Purple Hearts. His first was awarded for an incident in August of 2004, where he took shrapnel to the face, neck, and shoulder from a rocket-propelled grenade. “His second Purple Heart came from events which took place on November 13, 2004, when Marines were in their fifth day of Operation Phantom Fury, which was a battle to free Fallujah from the grip of the terrorists. Sergeant Kasal was patrolling the streets and had the duty of clearing terrorists from buildings, when he saw a fellow Marine, wounded and leaving a building, who told him that three more of their men were still inside and were under attack. “Without regard for his own life and safety, Sergeant Kasal charged into the building to defend and rescue his men. It was then he saw several dead Iraqis, one wounded Marine, and a terrorist greeting him with an AK-47 assault rifle less than two feet away. “While he managed to dodge the bullets and kill that terrorist, another terrorist was able to sneak up behind him and open fire. Sergeant Kasal was hit by those bullets and fell to the ground. He was dizzy and disoriented from his own wounds, he immediately began caring for another wounded Marine. Sergeant Kasal knew he had to stay alive, to save himself and the others. As he struggled to remain conscious, a grenade dropped onto the ground next to a wounded Marine. “Responding to his instinct to protect his comrade, Sergeant Kasal threw his own body over Private First Class Alexander Nicoll. Thankfully, Sergeant Kasal’s helmet and body armor protected his vital organs, but he took the full brunt of shrapnel to his back, shoulders, and legs. “For the next 45 minutes, as he lay grievously wounded, Sergeant Kasal used his 9 mm handgun to defend himself in a prolonged shootout, where he suffered another bullet wound. “This picture shows Sergeant Kasal being helped from the building, still clutching his trusty 9 mm handgun. He explains that he kept the gun because he was being evacuated through a “kill zone” where he knew a number of terrorists remained and he feared his weapon might be needed to fend of more potential attackers. “Long after he was rescued, Sergeant Kasal learned the full extent of his injuries. Ultimately he lost 60 percent of his blood, took 40 pieces of shrapnel wounds, and suffered seven bullet wounds. Despite his wounds, Sergeant Kasal said his efforts and wounds were worthwhile. The Marine whom he shielded had survived the battle, Private Nicoll. “Sergeant Kasal still must undergo constant medical procedures and therapy, but his ultimate goal is to recover so he can resume his service in the Marine Corps to defend you, and me and the people of our country. “Marine First Sergeant Brad Kasal does not think of himself as a hero. He is a model Marine and a hero for Americans, Mr. Speaker. In all wars, there are stories of bravery and heroism. The story of Marine First Sergeant Brad Kasal stands out among them. There is no doubt that Sergeant Kasal’s actions on November 13, 2004 prove he is an honorable Marine with a bigger passion for his fellow Marines and our country than for his own life and safety. Sergeant Kasal believes the values he learned in his Iowa upbringing, as well as the strong spirit of the Marine Corps, gave him the strength and will to persevere in an otherwise unsurvivable situation. “Sergeant Kasal makes me proud to be an Iowan, and an American, and I thank him for his bravery, honor, and patriotism.
03.02.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King is calling Senate Judiciary Chairman Arlen Specter’s immigration bill an irresponsible approach to immigration that would have catastrophic consequences for our national security. Specter’s bill, expected to be a vehicle for amnesty and increased immigration levels, will be discussed in the Senate Judiciary Committee today. It would grant blanket amnesty to illegal aliens who are now working illegally in the U.S. and open the doors to millions of guest workers, while increasing legal immigration levels. “We can’t even count, much less control, our current illegal population. How can we open the barn doors right now, before we get control of the current situation?” said King. “We already have a human haystack that is piled onto every day. Searching for terrorists that are trying to enter our country is like looking for needles in that haystack. Specter’s plan would dump millions of people on top of what is already a mess.” Specter’s bill also calls for the study of a border fence, but leaves out the House proposal calling for construction of a fence. “This is one of the biggest issues facing America today, because what we do now will impact the security of our children and grandchildren,” said King. “It’s clear any immigration reform passed by this Congress must include internal enforcement, and not only secure our borders but remove the job and anchor baby magnets that draw four million illegal aliens to break our laws to get into this country every year.” “Americans simply won’t stand for anything short of effective enforcement. What Senator Specter is proposing will set this country up for a national security nightmare,” added King. In December, with King’s support, the House passed H.R. 4437 - Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005, which would: The House and Senate must pass the same bill and it must be signed by the President to become law. King is a member of the House Judiciary Committee, Immigration Subcommittee and the Immigration Reform Caucus.
03.02.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today announced that an Iowa farmer will testify at Saturday’s Farm Bill hearing. King and Ed Wiederstein, a corn and soybean producer and purebred angus producer from Audubon, Iowa, will represent Iowa farmers at the hearing hosted by the eastern Nebraska- western Iowa region. This Saturday, March 4, 2006, at 9:00 a.m. CST, the Agriculture Committee will hold a hearing at the Steinhart Lodge, Lied Lodge & Conference Center, 2700 Sylvan Road, in Nebraska City, Nebraska, less than ten miles from the southwest Iowa border.. Wiederstein, a past Iowa Farm Bureau president and member of the Iowa Cattlemen’s Association, Pork Producers, Corn Growers and Soybean Growers, will be the first witness to testify at Saturday’s hearing. “Ed is an ideal ambassador for Iowa’s agriculture and conservation of our productive land. He knows what Iowa farmers are facing now and can easily predict what we will be facing in the future,” said King. King plans to canvass the Fifth District during the crafting of the 2007 Farm Bill, collect input from farmers and ensure Iowa has a voice at the table during the process. King currently serves on the House Agriculture Committee and the Subcommittee on Conservation, Credit, Rural Development and Research, Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management and the Subcommittee on Livestock and Horticulture. Live audio is available at the start of each hearing and can be accessed at http://agriculture.house.gov/hearings/audio.html
02.27.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—In his ongoing effort to ensure Iowa has a voice during 2007 Farm Bill preparations, U.S. Congressman Steve King today announced the western Iowa – eastern Nebraska region will host a Farm Bill hearing this Saturday. The House Agriculture Committee, of which King is a member, is holding a series of meetings with farmers and producers across the country as legislation is developed for the 2007 Farm Bill. This Saturday, March 4, 2006, at 9:00 a.m CST, the Agriculture Committee will hold a hearing at the Steinhart Lodge, Lied Lodge & Conference Center, 2700 Sylvan Road, in Nebraska City, Nebraska, less than ten miles from the southwest Iowa border. King is encouraging Iowa farmers to attend Saturday’s hearing. “This is an opportunity for Iowans to be part of the process to produce legislation that will impact this area for a long time,” said King. King currently serves on the House Agriculture Committee and the Subcommittee on Conservation, Credit, Rural Development and Research, Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management and the Subcommittee on Livestock and Horticulture. Live audio is available at the start of each hearing and can be accessed at http://agriculture.house.gov/hearings/audio.html
02.22.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Sioux Center -- As local Iowa chapters across the Fifth District celebrate FFA Week, U.S. Congressman Steve King today called on the need to create more opportunities in Iowa to keep young Iowans in the state. “Iowa's ag economy is important to our families, our communities and our state. For generations we have depended upon Iowa's young people to take over the reins of our agricultural economy and continue cultivating our soil,” said King. “That's why I introduced legislation in Congress that would help young Iowans get into the business of farming and stay here in Iowa to raise a family.” King's bill, H.R. 651, the Agricultural Bond Improvement Act of 2005 would expand and modernize the bonds designed to assist beginning farmers. The Agricultural Bond Improvement Act raises the limit of affordable, low cost credit that beginning farmers can access at their local bank through tax-exempt "Aggie Bonds." Beginning Farmer Loan Programs, offered in 25 states, were established almost 25 years ago to help young farmers obtain the capital they needed. As inflation has risen in the past 25 years, so have the prices of land, equipment and livestock. For example, the average price of Iowa farmland has hit a record high of $2,914 per acre. King serves on the House Agriculture Committee.
02.14.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King today testified before the U.S. House Budget Committee and called upon the Committee to make the most wise and efficient use of taxpayer dollars when proposing the Fiscal Year 2007 budget. King outlined a number of modifications to the budget process that would instill accountability and fiscal discipline into government spending. King’s proposed changes would make the appropriations process accountable by requiring spending committees to find savings in government programs, require a balanced budget to be passed into law, require emergency spending to be included in the budget, and give every House Member the opportunity to cut out wasteful spending by offering amendments for an up or down vote by the full House. Following are excerpts of King’s statement: “Spending is out of control and we are paying more money per household on taxes than we have at any time since the Second World War. We need to get out of the cycle of automatic spending increases. We need to get Washington out of the mind set that the federal government needs to grow every year." “I believe we can work together to reduce the deficit and still support a budget that provides for the common defense, helps us fight and win this war on terror, and promotes economic growth. There is nothing courageous or commendable about voting for deficits. True courage is exhibited by taking a tough stand and choosing to cut spending. When it comes to federal programs, it is not how much money is spent, but also what we spend the money on that counts. I believe we need to chart an economic course in this Nation that will not bankrupt our children and grandchildren. I look forward to working with the Committee to accomplish the goal of not only reducing the deficit but also balancing the budget." Last week, the President submitted his FY 2007 budget request to Congress. House Committees will now submit FY 2007 estimates under their areas of jurisdiction to the Budget Committee, and the Budget Committee proposes a budget resolution, which is voted upon by the full House. The House and Senate then must both approve the budget resolution conference report. In May, the House may begin to consider appropriations bills on the House floor.
02.08.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today met with United States Postal Service (USPS) Officials in his Washington, DC office. King has been working for the survival of the Sioux City mail processing center since the Postal Service announced it would review mail processing operations to determine whether its services could be consolidated and relocated elsewhere. King called the meeting with U.S. Postal Service officials in Network Operations, Processing Operations and Government Relations for the Postal Service, to demand some answers in the fate of the Sioux City mail processing center. “We’ve made it very clear to the Postal Service that we expect an opportunity to have a voice in the fate of local operations,” said King. “Sioux City residents should have the ability to submit a competing proposal based on a solid business model.” He continues to request USPS provide Sioux City with the opportunity to review the study of the mail processing center by the USPS and in turn provide a competing study with viable alternatives for consideration.
02.08.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — As the President signed the Deficit Reduction Act into law today, U.S. Congressman Steve King said taxpayers should demand government officials use fiscal responsibility and look for ways to eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse. “Most Iowans would agree that our federal government has been on a reckless spending spree,” said King. “The federal government simply cannot claim that reducing the federal deficit is a top priority, while at the same time continue to increase funding to the areas of government programs that are laden with waste, fraud and abuse.” “Government spending reform requires Congress and various agencies to look for waste, fraud and abuse in their programs. In most cases, these reforms simply reduce the rate of growth and still leave programs with a modest increase in funding and a more efficient means of operation,” added King.
02.06.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa FAYETTEVILLE, NC. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today represented Iowa farmers at the first field hearing for the 2007 Farm Bill. The House Agriculture Committee is holding the first field hearing for the 2007 Farm Bill in Fayetteville, North Carolina. This is the start of a series of meetings with farmers and producers across the country as legislation is developed for the 2007 Farm Bill. King plans to spend the next year soliciting input from Iowa’s farmers and producers to bring to the Farm Bill policy shaping sessions. “As we start to draft the new Farm Bill, I want Iowa to have a strong voice at the table from the very beginning,” said King. “We will let my colleagues on the Agriculture Committee know what is working for Iowa’s farmers and producers, what could be different and what changes we hope will be made.” King will also participate in tomorrow’s field hearing in Auburn, Alabama, which starts at 10:00 a.m. CST. He currently serves on the House Agriculture Committee and the Subcommittee on Conservation, Credit, Rural Development and Research, Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management and the Subcommittee on Livestock and Horticulture. Live audio is available at the start of each hearing and can be accessed at http://agriculture.house.gov/hearings/audio.html
02.03.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa TREYNOR, IA. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today spoke with southwest Iowa farmers on the future of Iowa’s agriculture and the 2007 Farm Bill. Treynor Bank and the West Pottawattamie Farm Bureau hosted an agriculture seminar, “What’s the Future Hold?” King gave an update of the House Agriculture Committee’s work on the 2007 Farm Bill and told of his plan to spend the year soliciting input from Iowa farmers to bring directly to Farm Bill policy sessions. “As we move forward on the 2007 Farm Bill, the Agriculture Committee will hold hearings all over the nation. I’ll have the opportunity to bring the concerns I’ve received from Iowa’s farmers to the table so we have a strong voice in the policy making process,” said King. King spoke of his mission to lower energy costs for Iowa’s farmers. He is urging his colleagues in Washington to increase and diversify U.S. energy supply and use the renewable fuels that Iowa farmers have been producing for years. On Wednesday, King addressed the House of Representatives on developing policy to fully utilize ethanol and biodiesel production to expand the country’s energy supply. “In Iowa, we already have the jump on several of the energy proposals the President advocated in his State of the Union,” said King. “I consider western Iowa an energy export center with ethanol, biodiesel and wind production all over the Fifth District of Iowa. These renewable sources can be used throughout the nation to reduce our dependence on foreign energy.” King also discussed the future of trade for Iowa’s producers. He outlined the steps he would like to see the World Trade Organization take to be an effective body for change. “I know that you would like to see Iowa ag commodities sold to even more people around the world,” said King. King serves on the House Agriculture Committee, the Rural Caucus and is founding co-Chairman of the House Ag Energy Users Caucus.
02.02.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King, along with Senator Tom Harkin and the rest of the Iowa Congressional delegation today are pushing full force on the United States Postal Service to give Sioux City a voice in the destiny of the Sioux City mail processing center. King, Harkin and a delegation from Sioux City met last week with the Senior Vice President of Operations for the U.S. Postal Service. From the meeting, the group formulated a plan for Sioux City. The plan includes an idea by King to provide Sioux City with the opportunity to review the study of the mail processing center by the U.S. Postal Service, and in turn provide a competing study with viable alternatives for consideration. “Sioux City has a right to be heard in the fate of this center. If we can produce a more efficient model for mail processing, then it’s common sense we should be able to keep our postal service,” added King. King has been working for the survival of the mail processing center ever since the Postal Service announced it would review the Sioux City mail processing operations to determine whether its services could be consolidated and relocated elsewhere. Last month, he sent a letter to John Potter, the Postmaster General, urging him to keep the mail processing center open.
02.02.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — Speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) last night called on his colleagues to stop standing in the way of lower energy prices for older and low-income Americans and take the right steps to increase domestic supply and decrease our dangerous dependence on foreign energy. Following are excerpts of his speech: “We have huge supplies of natural gas, the ability to deliver a million barrels of crude oil a day coming out of the ANWR region, all of the oil that is in that red area of the map along with the natural gas, and [instead] this Nation goes everywhere else in the world, to purchase at a high price, energy that enriches people that sometimes are our sworn enemies. I would say the leader of Iran would be one of those, and the leader of Venezuela has been swearing at us for some time, and he is convincing me he is our enemy, too. So we enrich them and sit on top of our energy reserves. I would declare that to be a form of economic suicide, to pay a high price for energy when we have it right underneath our very feet and not tap into it and instead enrich our enemies.” “With supply and demand, of course the rule is that the value of the cost of energy will go down if we can grow the size of the energy pie. Adjust the proportion, the percentage, of those pieces, the different kinds of energy, so that it reflects the resources we have in this country. The development of those resources, those being coal, nuclear, ethanol, biodiesel, natural gases sitting in the offshore and crude oil that sits out there offshore, drilling in the ANWR, the development of natural gas resources up in the north slope of Alaska and the natural gas that is across this country underneath public lands.” “I would ask us all to join together in [this] cause and let us open up this energy we have in this country so we are not hostage to those countries. Let us not enrich them. Let us enrich this economy here in the United States of America and promote the freedom that comes from a free economy.”
02.02.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today called on his colleagues to move forward with the Congressional agenda to lower energy prices, reform immigration laws and lower healthcare costs, and not allow the corruption of a few people on both sides of the aisle impede the business that improves America. House Republicans held elections today for a new majority leader. Rep. John Boehner (OH-08) was elected by Republicans to serve as House Majority Leader, whose main duty is to set forward an agenda to adopt legislation to reflect the position of a majority of Members. “Before I would support any candidate for majority leader, I spoke with him to see if he would be an effective leader on the policies that are important to Iowans,” said King. “John Boehner sought the position of majority leader to lead both sides of this Congress in restoring the trust of the American people. He will be the guiding voice to ensure lawmakers are seeking the right solution to important issues this country faces today. The Republican Party will move forward with a new energy and will continue to seek solutions. I oppose new laws that just have good titles but are hollow in effective policy.” “I’ve made it very clear to my colleagues that we should seize the opportunity of new Congressional leadership to move ahead immediately on the work the people expect get done,” added King.
01.31.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement regarding the confirmation of Judge Alito to the U.S. Supreme Court: “The confirmation of Judge Alito today brought us closer to the beginning of the restoration of our Constitution and the beginning of the end of judicial activism. For years, our Constitutional rights have been diminished and even eliminated by judges who use their positions to impose laws on the American people rather than apply the law and Constitution to cases. The justices on the Supreme Court are given a lifetime appointment to serve a unique role that affects every American every day. Judge Alito is a Constitutional originalist. He has demonstrated his commitment to defending the text and original intent of our Constitution; anything less ultimately destroys the Constitution itself.” King serves on the House Judiciary Committee.
01.31.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) tonight issued the following statement in reaction to the State of the Union address: “I hope this sets the stage for Washington politicians to move beyond party lines, hateful rhetoric and spiteful politics. It’s important for us, as Americans, to trust our leaders and know that our voice is being heard and our ideas implemented. We must now look forward to make America as strong as it can be. Our economy is stronger now than it was during the 1990s; we are entering our fifth straight year of economic expansion, and incomes have grown over 7% just in the past few years. This year we can expect to see an economic climate with even more growth, new jobs and contained inflation. "Even so, there are some major areas of concern that are on my mind and the minds of Iowans. It’s important to chart our course now, because these decisions affect Americans for generations. We must preempt and defeat terrorists who hate Americans because of who we are and what we stand for. We have the major task of rebuilding the Gulf Coast, and we must decrease our dependence on foreign oil for our own economic and national security. "Although there are those in our country that want to see us fail in the War on Terror, every single mission we’ve set out to do in Iraq has been successful. They have a new democracy, a new Constitution, the Iraqis are taking control of their own security, and the American troops will come home when their mission is completed. Four and a half years ago, the terrorists showed us that we can no longer subscribe to the idea that we’re protected by the oceans. If we allow the rhetoric to stand in our way of full completion of helping Iraq achieve their own independence, this war will be fought in our own schools, churches and stores. "I will continue to carry the message to Congress that Iowans won’t stand for skyrocketing gas and oil prices. Our dependence on foreign oil has grown out of an increasing demand in energy coupled with a static supply. The only way we will take control of our own energy security is by finding new domestic supplies and increasing our use of renewable energy that we’ve been producing here for years.”
01.26.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— A Siouxland delegation, Congressman Steve King, Senator Tom Harkin and a representative from Senator Grassley’s office met today with the U.S. Postal Service’s William Galligan, Senior Vice President of Operations, who has responsibility for the facilities, to keep the Sioux City Mail Processing and Distribution Center open. King, along with the Iowa delegation from Sioux City lobbied Postal Service officials to keep the center intact. King and Sioux City are fighting to keep the distribution center and a significant number of jobs from moving to Sioux Falls, South Dakota. “It is my hope that the Postal Service came away from today’s meeting with an understanding of what the loss of that facility would do to Sioux City,” said King. “I am concerned that it would slow down mail and negatively impact business and thousands of people in Western Iowa. I’ll continue to do everything I can to keep this center intact.” “I have initiated a request to the United States Postal Service to consider an alternative proposal that would be presented by Sioux City in response to the results of its study. If Sioux City can produce a more efficient model, then Sioux City should be able to keep its postal service,” added King. “We need to hold the Postal Service accountable to adopt the most efficient competing model.” King has been working for the survival of the mail processing center since the Postal Service announced it would review the Sioux City mail processing operations to determine whether its services could be consolidated and relocated elsewhere. Earlier this month, he sent a letter to John Potter, the Postmaster General, urging him to keep the mail processing center open. Following is the text of the letter King sent January 10, 2006, to the Postmaster General.
01.24.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Iowa Congressman Steve King yesterday addressed a large crowd of March for Life supporters in front of the Capitol at the annual March for Life. This week marks the 33rd anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision. King was one of the keynote speakers at the rally, which draws thousands of supporters from around the country. This year, Iowans for Life led the March from the Capitol and around the National Mall to finish with a rally on the steps of the Supreme Court. After the march, King invited all participating Iowans to join him for cookies and hot chocolate. Following is an excerpt of King’s speech. “We only need to know the answer to two questions, one is do we believe in the sanctity of human life? In all of its forms? From fertilization, conception, to natural death? Then if so, then when does life begin? And when does it end? Natural death. That’s all we need to know. If you ask that question, every young person in America needs to grow up knowing their life begins at conception and ends at natural death and their life is sacred under God, and we’re created under His image. Black or white, young or old, rich or poor, we stand together on this question of life.” King is a member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Pro-Life Caucus.
01.20.2006	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Council Bluffs, IA. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement regarding today’s findings that U.S. beef exports in Japan failed to meet Japanese inspections: “We worked a long time to reopen Japan’s markets to U.S. beef, only to have one company make a mistake that unfortunately could jeopardize that work, our relationship with the Japanese and our beef industry. I appreciate Secretary Johanns’ immediate steps to assure the Japanese that U.S. beef remains safe. It is my hope this isolated incident does not cause the Japanese government to hurt our producers and cause a major financial loss again to our beef industry by banning all of our beef exports.” King met with Japanese Ambassador Ryozo Kato to restore full U.S. beef exports to Japan, as well as cosponsored H. Res. 137 that supported retaliatory economic measures on Japan if they did not reopen their markets for U.S. beef. He represents the Fifth District of Iowa, which is tenth in the nation for production of “cattle and calves.” King serves on the House Agriculture Committee.
12.29.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Worthington, MN. — U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today joined U.S. Congressman Gil Gutknecht (MN-01) in a community listening session on illegal immigration issues in Worthington, Minnesota, a community that borders Iowa’s Fifth Congressional District. Worthington community leaders and residents talked about the impact of illegal immigration on business and way of life. King and Gutknecht discussed the jobs magnet and the lack of enforcement of current immigration laws. “We’ve been held hostage by burdening illegal immigration in our rural and agricultural communities for years,” said King. “Congressman Gutknecht and I stand behind Midwesterners who are concerned about our national and economic security. Washington’s elite has been slow to get the message, but we will continue to work to build a consensus that represents the will of the American people.” “Border protection is a national security issue,” said Gutknecht. “We need to give communities like Worthington the resources and support they need to enforce the law. That’s why it is so important to get out of Washington and give people on the front lines of this issue an opportunity to speak out.” In August, King hosted Secure America’s Future, a series of immigration reform forums in western Iowa. Hundreds of Iowans participated in talking about the various issues of immigration reform, including border security, internal enforcement of immigration law and the magnets that draw illegal immigrants to enter the country. King took the information he heard from Iowans to work in Washington, where he serves on the Immigration Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee and the Immigration Reform Caucus. Earlier this month, the U.S. House passed H.R. 4437 - Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005, which contains provisions to reform border security and internal immigration enforcement, including construction of a 700-mile border fence and requiring American employers to check legal status of workers. The bill must pass the Senate and be signed by the President to become law.
12.19.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa KING HOLDS FIRM TO REDUCE DEFICIT King: We Should Require Congress to be Fiscally Responsible Every Day Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today called on his colleagues to hold themselves accountable to taxpayers and agree to a plan to reduce the federal deficit by voting for the Conference Report on H.R. 4241, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. Today the U.S. House passed the Conference Report for the Deficit Reduction Act, to find and eliminate waste, fraud and abuse in government programs and make the government more accountable to taxpayers through common sense reforms. King supported legislation passed this spring that requires Congressional committees to look for savings in mandatory spending under their jurisdiction for the first time since 1997. The Deficit Reduction Act contains $39.732 billion in savings over the next five years. “Americans expect their representatives to be fiscally responsible, but it doesn’t always happen,” said King. “It shouldn’t be the first time in eight years we’re requiring Congress to look for and eliminate abuse, waste and fraud in government programs, we should require it every day. The Deficit Reduction Act is a big step toward making government accountable to the taxpayers and reducing the federal deficit.”
12.19.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today capped a four year effort to open up oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) which will relieve crippling high energy prices for Iowans. Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted 308- 106 to pass the Conference Report for H.R. 2863, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006, and open a .01% segment of ANWR to development of its large supplies of oil. King has long advocated that the U.S. must take charge of its own energy security by reducing its dependence on foreign oil and increasing domestic oil supply. Currently, the U.S. imports almost two-thirds of its oil. The U.S. Energy Information Agency reports that energy development in ANWR would increase domestic production by nearly 20% by 2025. In addition, ANWR contains enough oil to replace Saudi Arabian imports for nearly 30 years. “Skyrocketing prices at the pump strain family budgets,” said King. “We can’t wait a minute longer. In Congress, I’ve been making sure my colleagues know how vital this opportunity is to relieve Americans of high gas prices and reduce our dependence on foreign oil safely and responsibly.” “While shaping this policy, I had the opportunity to investigate the landscape and the wildlife in ANWR. The real picture is not how it’s painted by environmental extremists. We have proven right next door on the north slope that we can develop oil fields and have a positive impact on wildlife,” added King.
12.17.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— In another step in the long-term strategy to assist the National Training Center find operational funding, U.S. Congressman Steve King today announced he has secured $9 million in authorization funding for the National Training Center in Sioux City. The U.S. House today passed the Conference Report to H.R. 3402, the Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2006 Through 2009, which includes specific authorizations for appropriations for the training center. Under an authorization, Congress is not required, but is allowed to devote appropriations to specific projects. In H.R. 3402, the center is authorized to receive up to $3 million for fiscal years 2007- ‘09. “The National Training Center is critical to law enforcement and fighting the meth problem in this nation.” said King. “I never let Congressional leadership forget that in the authorization and appropriations process. Authorizing the center for the next four years will help it become a more prominent funding project to appropriators every year. This is a giant step forward for the training center in long term funding help.” King is the only member of the Iowa delegation who serves on the House Judiciary Committee, and he worked closely with Judiciary Chairman Sensenbrenner to include authorization language for the training center. An authorization measure for the National Training Center helps to pave the way toward subsequent enactment of appropriations in annual appropriations bills. Annual appropriations will still be required to provide funds for the authorized program. Last month, the National Training Center learned it would receive $1,075,000 in 2006 under H.R. 2862, the Science, the Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006. Last December, King met with city leaders and Sioux City Police Department to work on a strategy for appropriations and authorization.
12.15.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— Iowa Congressman Steve King today applauded the people of Iraq on a successful election to elect their permanent representatives, and encouraged his colleagues in Congress to show their support by inking their fingers purple. Today, Iraq elected its 275-member permanent parliament in its third free election. At 6,291 polling places across Iraq, early media reports estimate a very high voter turnout, including the participation of the Sunnis. “Freedom is echoing all across the Middle East today,” said King. “The security of that region is crucial to the future security of our own country because free countries do not go to war with free countries. Today is a big victory in the War on Terror and puts us closer to establishing a sovereign Iraq and completing our mission.”
12.15.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — This week Iowa Congressman Steve King urged his colleagues to support national meth legislation, calling it a “small but forward step in the right direction” toward finally eliminating methamphetamine labs in America. With King’s support, Wednesday the U.S. House of Representatives passed the reauthorization of the Patriot Act, which includes provisions to limit the sale of methamphetamine precursor chemicals. The Patriot Act is legislation to strengthen homeland security. It was put into place after September 11, 2001. Provisions of the Patriot Act were set to expire at the end of this year, which required its reauthorization. “Iowa’s meth law works and we know it because it caused almost an eighty percent drop in meth lab seizures. I brought those results directly to my colleagues in Congress. While the legislation passed yesterday is a good step toward getting a national law on par with Iowa’s, I won’t be satisfied until we get something that will protect Iowa from all sides,” said King. King recently introduced The Meth Lab Eradication Act to strengthen the effect of Iowa’s methamphetamine law by bringing laws of bordering states in line with Iowa’s law. The meth provisions that passed the House include restricting sales of precursor chemicals to 3,600 mg per day and 9,000 mg per month and requires identification of purchasers. Iowa’s law and King’s bill restrict precursor chemical sales to 360 mg per day and 7,500 mg per month. King’s bill also inflicts severe criminal penalties for the illegal sale and distribution of the ingredients used to make methamphetamines by moving these ingredients behind the pharmacy counter. King is a member of the House Judiciary Committee, House Caucus to Fight Meth and the Congressional Rural Caucus.
12.08.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— Iowa Congressman Steve King released the following statement on today’s news reports that the Japanese government will open the Japan market to U.S. beef: “This is a good day for U.S. producers. This agreement will stop the loss of an estimated $3 billion by our U.S. producers. This is a milestone agreement that was reached after we made the point that U.S. beef is safer than Japanese beef. I worked directly with the Japanese ambassador and House Agriculture Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte who helped push this agreement forward. I’m confident that we’ll soon see U.S. beef going to Japan.” Japan has blocked U.S. beef exports since December 2003, when a single U.S. case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) was discovered in Washington state from a Canadian-born cow. King represents the Fifth District of Iowa, which is tenth in the nation for production of “cattle and calves.” King serves on the House Agriculture Committee.
11.18.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today called on his colleagues to join him in voting to reduce the deficit by $50 billion. Early this morning the U.S. House passed the Deficit Reduction Act, to find and eliminate waste, fraud and abuse in government programs and make the government more accountable to taxpayers through common sense reforms. King supported legislation passed this spring, which requires Congressional committees to look for savings in mandatory spending under their jurisdiction for the first time since 1997. The Deficit Reduction Act contains $50 billion in savings over the next five years. “I believe that since American families must live within their budget, then the federal government should too,” said King. “It’s no surprise the federal government is bloated, inefficient and spends too much of your hard earned money. It shouldn’t be the first time in eight years we’re requiring our representatives to examine abuse, waste and fraud in government spending; we should hold them to it all the time. Today’s bill is a step in the right direction to rein in runaway spending.” “Unfortunately, every Democrat opposed fiscal restraint and lowering the deficit so the expense of the War on Terror and hurricane disasters isn’t passed onto our grandchildren. Because the Democrats opposed making government more accountable to those who pay taxes, a handful of northeasterners were able to block important provisions opening ANWR and allowing OCS drilling that would quickly lower energy and heating costs for Americans this winter. I will redouble my efforts to lower energy costs in our homes and for our farmers by developing new domestic sources of energy, decreasing our dependence on foreign oil and finally taking control of our own energy security.” “A nation that refuses to develop its energy resources as a consequence pays higher oil prices which funds its enemies in the Mid East and will lose its place in the global economy,” added King.
11.18.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — Iowa Congressman Steve King announced today that he has secured $4.5 million in federal funding for transportation projects in the Council Bluffs area for Fiscal Year 2006. This figure includes $3 million for the Council Bluffs Municipal Airport runway expansion and $1.5 million for the U.S. 34 Bridge project as part of the Conference Report on H.R. 3058 - Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006, which passed the U.S. House today. “With these funds the airport will be better able to attract new corporate business as well as retain existing business, which will attract business owners to the area, bringing new jobs for the people of Council Bluffs with them. This will allow our community to retain our young people, because there will be many exciting opportunities to choose from,” said King. In addition, these funds for fiscal year 2006 will bring a much-need step forward for the U.S. 34 Bridge project. Mills County is making substantial strides to enhance economic development for Southwest Iowa but is hindered by the existing heavily-traveled Interstates 29 and 80 that carry over 19,000 vehicles per day to metropolitan Omaha. “I made in clear to House Appropriators that these projects are a big priority for Southwest Iowa,” said King. “We are well on our way to finally completing the U.S. 34 Bridge, important to opening up the entire area to economic opportunity.”
11.18.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — Iowa Congressman Steve King announced today that he has secured $300,000 for the City of Council Bluffs’ Historic Commercial Renovation Fund. The funding is included in the Conference Report on H.R. 3058, the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006, which passed the U.S. House today. The City of Council Bluffs has several historically significant structures in its downtown area including prime examples of late nineteenth century and early twentieth century architecture. The funds would be used for the rehabilitation of historically significant buildings or designated commercial and mixed structures in the downtown area. Funds would be loaned or granted to property owners to make improvements. "Many communities are losing their historic downtowns, but I hope this funding will help maintain the landmarks we have in Council Bluffs. Together, we’ll work to keep our downtown vibrant and continue to lead businesses, people and jobs to the area," said King.
11.16.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) today hosted current Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan at the Conservative Opportunity Society in Washington. King is the elected chairman of the Conservative Opportunity Society, a prominent conservative Republican forum consisted solely of Members of Congress. The Conservative Opportunity Society is a 22-year-old organization that provided the common ground on which conservative Republican House members planned the revolution that ultimately captured majority control of the House in 1994. King tapped Greenspan to be the guest speaker to Conservative Opportunity Society as he serves his final days as Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. After serving under four presidents, Greenspan will retire in January. Dr. Ben Bernanke, President Bush’s appointee to succeed Greenspan, is currently going through his confirmation hearings in the Senate. “Chairman Greenspan has successfully guided this country’s financial success for almost twenty years, making us a leader in the global economy. His solid leadership steered us through a variety of economic disasters, including the bursting of the dot-com bubble, a recession and September 11th to now enjoying ten continuous quarters of three percent or more growth – the highest of that kind of growth in two decades,” said King. “This country will miss his legendary guidance.” King joins the ranks of former Conservative Opportunity Society chairman and former Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich, who along with Republican "young Turk" conservatives, envisioned a forum for conservative House members to discuss and debate issues facing the country and develop legislative responses and tactics to lead Republicans out of decades of minority status. Years later, the "Contract With America" emerged as the watchword for the successful 1994 campaign that installed a GOP majority in the House for the first time in 40 years. COS hosts leading thinkers, opinion shapers and foreign and domestic policy officials. COS members meet each Wednesday morning when Congress is in session.
11.10.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement on tomorrow’s observance of Veterans Day: “Today and every day we honor all those who have sacrificed to make this nation what it is: free, strong and sovereign. Right now, brave men and women of our Armed Forces are in place all across the world to defend our homeland. Today we express our thanks and praise to our Veterans, who have liberated continents, spread democracy and defended us from brutal enemies. Because they sacrifice time with the families they love so much to walk into the unknown, we remain the greatest and strongest nation today, in the face of emerging new and different threats to our freedom. Our veterans are the reason we are the lamp and beacon of liberty and freedom throughout the world.”
11.09.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today announced he has secured a total of $27.5 million for area water projects. The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Conference Report for Fiscal Year 2005 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, which includes $17.5 million for Lewis and Clark Rural Water System and $10 million for the Perry Creek Flood Control Project. Pending approval by the Senate, the earmark designates $17.5 million for Lewis and Clark to provide safe, reliable drinking water to approximately 200,000 people and 21 communities in the region. King worked closely with Rep. Hobson (R-OH), Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, to double the earmark for the project, which originally was designated $7 million by the Committee. Iowa, Minnesota and South Dakota face regional water problems, including shallow wells, aquifers prone to contamination, compliance with new federal drinking water standards, and increasing water demand. “Rural water projects like Lewis and Clark are important to the health and the economic development of our rural communities. This earmark will go a long way to keep this project on schedule to provide a reliable water source and secure economic development for our communities for years to come,” said King. King also pushed for a $10 million earmark, included in the House Report considered this past May, for the Perry Creek Flood Control project to control catastrophic flooding that has occurred through the center of Sioux City. The funds are needed to complete the phase of the project that will remove the threat of flooding for 457 businesses and 1,025 homes in the flood plain affected by Perry Creek. In addition, the completed project will eliminate the flood insurance need for almost 80% of the properties and significantly reduce the need for the rest. The Conference Report now must be passed by the Senate and signed by the President to become law.
11.03.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — The eternal inferno will freeze over before the environmental extremists’ lobby supports efficient domestic production of energy. Until then, it is just us that will freeze. The Energy Information Administration predicts Midwesterners will see a 71 percent increase in our heating bills this winter. Many families, schools and hospitals won't be able to afford skyrocketed heating bills. Farmers feel the heat in rising natural gas prices and can't be expected to absorb these high prices. Everyone from seniors, homeowners, small businesses, manufacturers to other consumers of energy will suffer due to the significant impact of higher energy costs. Surprisingly, the rest of the world doesn't feel the squeeze from skyrocketing energy prices the way we do. In the U.S., natural gas prices have increased 400 percent over the last five years. In September 2005, the average price for natural gas in the U.S. reached $14.50 per million BTUs, while competing countries, such as Brazil and most of South America, Iran and Russia, paid $1.60, $1.25 and $0.95 respectively. Interestingly, the U.S. is the only developed country in the world that has cut off access to its offshore drilling reserves. Natural gas is cheapest when sold close to the area of production because natural gas requires liquification or pipelines for transport. Countries that have natural gas and produce it have dramatically cheaper prices. The U.S. has abundant reserves of natural gas. We just don’t produce it. Congressional and Presidential bans have put 85 percent of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) off-limits to exploration, even though it contains vast amounts of natural gas. It has been estimated that there are 406 trillion cubic feet along the OCS. To put how much that actually is into perspective, current production in the lower 48 states is under 10 trillion cubic feet per year. The OCS contains enough gas for fifty years, but we can’t touch it! The U.S. is behind the times in energy production, while extremists stand in the way. Right now, Congress is working to pass the Deficit Reduction Act, an across-the-board savings for our federal budget that is a giant step toward curbing wasteful government spending, holding our government accountable to spending and successfully reducing the deficit. In addition, it includes legislation intended to relieve our current national energy crisis. I don’t believe the provisions in the Deficit Reduction Act are strong enough to alleviate this energy crisis for Americans, but it is something that can be done almost immediately by removing energy production barriers in the OCS. If passed by Congress and signed by the President, the Deficit Reduction Act will allow states an opt-out of off-shore energy production, because the environmental lobby and coastal states are tied up in a dispute over how far off-shore to start production. Instead of fixing our energy crisis immediately, this will tie up the solution with years of government tape. The human eye can spot an oil rig as far out as twelve miles off shore, which makes discussing the difference between 20 and 120 miles an absurd exercise that will stand in the way of the immediate relief from these high energy costs. I believe permanently removing energy production barriers for natural gas and oil in the OCS is in our best national interest. While the motive to temporarily alleviate high heating bills is good start, I think it is the duty of the federal government to permanently solve this natural gas crisis in America, and give America control over its own energy security. Iowans shouldn’t have to hope for coal in their stockings this Christmas to heat their homes.
11.01.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) released the following statement regarding the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito, Jr. to the U.S. Supreme Court: “This is a great day for the Constitution of the United States. The President has taken advantage of a dramatic opportunity for a second chance. It is apparent that President Bush has kept his oath of office and his pledge to the American people by nominating a judge that will respect and honor the original intent of our Founding Fathers, one in the mold of Justices Scalia and Thomas. President Bush swore an oath to “preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States,” and each member of Congress swears an oath to “support and defend the Constitution”. With the anticipated confirmation of Judge Alito, I expect Members of Congress will have to spend less of their time defending the Constitution from “amendments” by the Supreme Court. Supreme Court decisions have effectively amended our Constitution regularly and with impunity for decades. Nearly all of the social conflict in this country stems from the Court’s extra constitutional interference with the voice of the people. The very last people in America who should be amending the Constitution are the Supreme Court justices. They are charged with interpreting it. In their activism they have instead often amended it. We have come to a time in our history when the restoration of our Constitution must begin. I am looking ahead now to the future of our country and the future for our Constitution. In the coming months, I expect the Senate Judiciary Committee to hold fair hearings. The American people are ready to hear Judge Alito’s views on the clear meaning and defined boundaries of the Constitution, as well as the Constitutional role of the Judiciary – to read the text and determine intent, not to rewrite our laws or amend the Constitution. I encourage the Senate to uphold their constitutional duty to give Judge Alito an up or down vote, then let the Constitution restoration process begin.” King is a member of the House Judiciary Committee.
10.28.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King (IA-05) released the following statement regarding today’s passage of the budget reconciliation instructions out of the House of Representatives Committee on Agriculture: “Even though budget reconciliations are tough, it must be done. With the Fiscal Year 2006 budget deficit projected to be $295 billion and the national debt hovering around $8 trillion, Congress must be held accountable to spending discipline because that is the only way the deficit will be lowered for the sake of the economy and future generations. We went through at least three rounds of negotiations with Agriculture Committee Republicans before we could arrive at a final package. Everyone had to give something. My first priority was to protect the interests of Iowa’s agriculture. Other members worked to protect the interests of their districts. I'm confident that we achieved the best possible balance given the circumstances. World Trade Organization (WTO) agriculture negotiations have been deadlocked without results in market access or reductions in export subsidies. The United States has consistently and in good faith negotiated with the WTO member states to reduce domestic subsidies and to eliminate export subsidies in exchange for market access. I hope this budget reconciliation decision shows the commitment by the U.S. and sets the stage for successful WTO trade negotiations in Hong Kong this December.” King is a member of the House Agriculture Committee.
10.27.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — In order to expedite criminal trials in Northern Iowa, U.S. Congressman Steve King today successfully urged his colleagues in the House Judiciary Committee to pass legislation creating an additional judgeship in Northern Iowa. In a larger bill passed by the Judiciary Committee today, the District Court of Northern Iowa will receive a temporary federal judgeship. A temporary judgeship is the typical path for a district toward a permanent judgeship. The Iowa judgeship is part of a larger bill that now will go to the entire House floor, and then must be passed by the Senate and signed by the President. King, the only member of the Iowa delegation who serves on the House Judiciary Committee, gathered support of his Iowa House colleagues and worked closely with the Chairman of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee to bring the judgeship to the Committee for consideration. The Judiciary Committee sets the courts’ jurisdiction and the number of judges in U.S. District Courts. Due to a high trial rate, increased criminal filings and a high number of contested sentencing hearings for each judge, an additional federal judge in the U.S. District Court for Northern Iowa would try cases more expeditiously. Northern Iowa ranks seventh in the nation for criminal filings per judgeship, and criminal filings in Iowa’s Northern District have almost tripled in the last six years. An increased organized drug crime enforcement effort has led to a dramatic increase in felony cases filed. Half of all felony cases filed each year in the Northern District are drug filings. “While our law enforcement does their job to bring these drug criminals in, the courts need to be able to do their job and expedite those cases, because every American has the right to a fair and speedy trial,” said King. “Catch them, book them and try them. When we have an additional judge to move through some of these backlogged cases, we’ll be closer to getting criminals off our streets and away from our kids.” The Northern District spans the top half of the state of Iowa, and contains portions of every Congressional district. Counties in the Northern District include: Lyon, Sioux, Plymouth, Woodbury, Monona, Osceola, O’Brien, Cherokee, Ida, Crawford, Dickinson, Clay, Buena Vista, Sac, Emmet, Palo Alto, Pocahontas, Calhoun, Carroll, Kossuth, Humboldt, Webster, Winnebago, Hancock, Wright, Hamilton, Worth, Cerro Gordo, Franklin, Mitchell, Floyd, Butler, Howard, Chickasaw, Bremer, Black Hawk, Winneshiek, Fayette, Buchanan, Delaware, Hardin, Grundy, Tama, Benton, Iowa, Linn, Jones, Cedar, Allamakee, Clayton, Dubuque and Jackson.
10.26.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today was named a "True Blue" Member of Congress by the Family Research Council (FRC) for his commitment to American families. King won the award for extraordinary leadership and commitment to the defense of family, faith, and freedom, according to FRC's new scorecard covering House votes during the first session of the 109th Congress. Recipients of the award voted consistently for pro-life and pro-family issues. This year, King has voted to: "The Members of the 109th Congress who received this award have been consistent, stalwart allies of American families," said FRC President Tony Perkins. "These Members are to be commended for supporting public policy that values human life, protects our religious liberties, and upholds the institutions of marriage and the family." "Rep. Steve King is not only a representative conservatives can count on, he's a leader in protecting the family and the dignity of every human being. Rep. Steve King is a true defender of faith and family. We're proud to work with a Member so dedicated to the value of every human life and the importance of the rule of law."
10.10.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Sioux City, IA. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today congratulated Dwight Hauff of Sioux City for achieving the designation of “America’s Oldest Worker.” Hauff, 100, received the award from Experience Works, a national non-profit dedicated to training, employment and community service for mature workers. During a visit to Hauff Sporting Goods today, King congratulated Hauff for his national title and presented him with a flag that has been flown over the US. Capitol. Hauff Sporting Goods has been a staple in Sioux City business since 1933. Today his sporting goods chain includes Hauff Mid-America Sports, Dakota Sports, Inc and Iowa Sports Supply Company. “The people of Sioux City have looked up to Mr. Hauff as a business and community leader for as long as I can remember,” said King. “He cares about young people and their participation in pastimes that help them learn discipline and motivation that shows in other areas for the rest of their lives. Mr. Hauff is energetic, full of life and possesses such a strong and honest work ethic. He is an inspiration to us all.” Only one person earns the title of “America’s Oldest Worker” every year.
09.30.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King has introduced legislation to strengthen the effect of Iowa’s methamphetamine law by bringing laws of bordering states in line with Iowa’s law. The Meth Lab Eradication Act, H.R. 3955, will shut down domestic production of methamphetamine, leaving local and federal law enforcement officials free to use resources to stop the major drug rings and importation of the drug from other countries. The Meth Lab Eradication Act takes the main ingredients used to make methamphetamine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine and phenylpropanolamine, and puts them behind pharmacy counters across America. There is an exception for small doses of pseudoephedrine in liquid, liquid capsule and liquid-filled gel capsule forms to allow it to be bought from retailers like grocery stores until a consumer can go to a pharmacy. “While Iowans won’t see a difference in the access to medications than what they have today, this bill will prevent meth cooks from taking a short trip across the border to get their ingredients and coming back to cook it in our communities,” said King. “Meth has taken our rural communities hostage for years. Now that we have strength from within the state from the state law, we want to protect Iowa from all sides.” Iowa’s methamphetamine law, in effect since May, has seen a 79 percent drop in meth lab seizures. The bill also inflicts severe criminal penalties for the illegal sale and distribution of the ingredients used to make methamphetamines by moving these ingredients to Schedule V. The methamphetamine problem, which has been the number one drug problem in the Midwest for years, has increased exponentially over the last decade. Last year, the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) seized 9,797 methamphetamine labs nationwide, a 6000 percent jump in the last ten years. In 1995, the DEA seized 162 labs nationwide. “If we eliminate these homemade meth labs that are prevalent in our small communities, we can allow authorities to focus resources on eliminating the big drug kingpins and finally end this problem for good,” said King. King is a member of the House Judiciary Committee, House Caucus to Fight Meth and the Congressional Rural Caucus.
09.23.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King is calling upon his colleagues in the House of Representatives to protect Byrne-JAG grants given to local law enforcement departments to fight drugs. Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants (Bryne-JAG) are used in local Iowa police departments to prevent, locate and eradicate methamphetamine production, distribution and use. King, a member of the House Caucus to Fight Meth, is joining with a bipartisan coalition of colleagues to call on key appropriators to fully fund the Byrne-JAG program at $900 million and help law enforcement officers combat methamphetamine in our communities. This June, during House consideration of the Fiscal Year 2006 Department of Justice spending bill, King co-sponsored an amendment to continue Byrne-JAG funding at the current level, $634 million. That amendment failed and the funding was cut by 45 percent. The bill is currently in conference committee with House and Senate negotiators. “Every single local law enforcement officer in Iowa knows how important this funding is to fight the meth problem that infests Iowa, hurting our kids and crippling our communities,” said King. “Working with Iowa’s law enforcement, my colleagues in Congress and House and Senate appropriators, I will continue to do everything I can to see Byrne-JAG funding restored so we can finally kill the nation’s number-one drug epidemic. Lives are on the line.” Iowa has approximately 25 police task forces funded by Bryne grants. According to the U.S. Attorney General, the number of meth cases nationwide has quadrupled over the last ten years.
09.22.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today released the following statement regarding the Senate Judiciary Committee bipartisan 13 - 5 vote which forwarded Judge Roberts nomination for the Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court to the Senate floor: “We are looking ahead now to the future of our country and the future of our Constitution. I hold the Constitution of our great nation, one constructed to last for all of time by those who fought to create our country, very dear. Judge Roberts confirmed my initial beliefs that he would uphold the true intent of our Founding Fathers by strictly construing our Constitution. Over and over in his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee, he verified that he is a strict constructionist and that he believes judicial activism is dangerous to our system of government. This man, who is poised to step forward and don the robes of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, is a young man with a clear legal mind, a solid moral set of values, a clear understanding of his duty before the Court, a constitutional understanding, a rule of law understanding, and a duty to history. He summed it up in one line, the duty of all of us in the Federal Government, when he stated: “My obligation is to the Constitution. That's the oath.” I believe that Judge Roberts indicated in his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee the kind of judge we are going to see. We will see a judge that exercises constraint, and a constraint that is bound up within the words of the Constitution, within the text of the Constitution, within the clear meaning and the defined boundaries of the Constitution, and the rule of law, and constraint within the boundaries of being a member of the judicial branch of government whose job it is to interpret the Constitution and the laws of the land, not to make them. I hope that by the end of next week, the Senate will have given John Roberts’ nomination an up or down vote, and confirm him to be the 17th Chief Justice of the United States.”
09.16.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today released the following statement regarding the National Day of Prayer and Remembrance for the Victims of Hurricane Katrina: “Today on this day of prayer and remembrance, I ask Iowans to take time today to pray for the families of those we have lost, for the people still living the tragedy and for the people looking down the long road of recovery. We stand behind those affected by Hurricane Katrina with our faith, prayers and our actions.”
09.14.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Iowa Congressman Steve King today named Margene and Robert Meeves of Ida Grove, “Angels in Adoption.” Every year, King names one person or family an “Angel in Adoption” from the Fifth Congressional District for serving as a role model in his or her community by exemplifying truly selfless and inspiring behavior through foster and adoptive parenting. King presented Mrs. Meeves with the award today in Washington, D.C. Mrs. Meeves flew to Washington with two of her children to accept the award and attended Tuesday’s Angels in Adoption Gala for “Angels” from across the nation. Margene Meeves and her late husband, Robert Meeves, were foster and adoptive parents for over 42 years, and opened their home to over 25 adopted and foster children. The Meeves operated a Treatment Level foster home, opening their big family to children with special needs. The couple made a commitment to continue training and counseling to meet the needs of those children. After Mr. Meeves’ passing last year, Mrs. Meeves continued to parent the remaining children living in their home. “In my job I have the pleasure to meet truly exemplary people from Western Iowa. Families like the Meeves embody the good in humanity, and it is truly a pleasure for me to serve them,” said King. “The Meeves chose to live their lives to serve other people, and by doing so, they set an example for their community and all who came in contact with their family,” added King. “Any parent knows the long hours and sacrifice it takes to raise children to the best of your ability. The Meeves made a commitment to provide a stable home and a strong parenting team to over 25 children who needed to know they were loved.” King is a member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, whose mission is to use its voice to improve the lives of the most vulnerable children and to recognize individuals who have done the same.
09.14.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Iowa Congressman Steve King today named Margene and Robert Meeves of Ida Grove, “Angels in Adoption.” Every year, King names one person or family an “Angel in Adoption” from the Fifth Congressional District for serving as a role model in his or her community by exemplifying truly selfless and inspiring behavior through foster and adoptive parenting. King presented Mrs. Meeves with the award today in Washington, D.C. Mrs. Meeves flew to Washington with two of her children to accept the award and attended Tuesday’s Angels in Adoption Gala for “Angels” from across the nation. Margene Meeves and her late husband, Robert Meeves, were foster and adoptive parents for over 42 years, and opened their home to over 25 adopted and foster children. The Meeves operated a Treatment Level foster home, opening their big family to children with special needs. The couple made a commitment to continue training and counseling to meet the needs of those children. After Mr. Meeves’ passing last year, Mrs. Meeves continued to parent the remaining children living in their home. “In my job I have the pleasure to meet truly exemplary people from Western Iowa. Families like the Meeves embody the good in humanity, and it is truly a pleasure for me to serve them,” said King. “The Meeves chose to live their lives to serve other people, and by doing so, they set an example for their community and all who came in contact with their family,” added King. “Any parent knows the long hours and sacrifice it takes to raise children to the best of your ability. The Meeves made a commitment to provide a stable home and a strong parenting team to over 25 children who needed to know they were loved.” King is a member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, whose mission is to use its voice to improve the lives of the most vulnerable children and to recognize individuals who have done the same.
09.12.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Iowa Congressman Steve King is in New Orleans today, participating in air surveys of the region’s infrastructure and speaking with residents, rescue and rebuilding officers about the current and future efforts. King is leading a push in Congress to remind his colleagues of their responsibility to ensure a strategic, efficient, accountable, and fiscally responsible response plan for the hurricane devastated region. King has been in the Gulf region since Saturday. King can be reached for interviews by contacting Summer Johnson at 202-225-4426. What: King Sees Damage First-hand of Hurricane Devastated Region Who: Iowa Congressman Steve King When: Today, Monday, September 12, 2005 Where: Via Telephone From New Orleans, LA To reach King by telephone, contact Summer Johnson at 202-225-4426
09.09.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa PELLA — U.S. Congressman Steve King today released the following statement regarding the fourth anniversary of the tragedies of September 11, 2001: “It’s been four years since the devastating and sickening terrorist attacks burned a permanent mark on this country. Time will always go on, but hopefully Americans will never forget what 9/11 meant to our country. The pain felt by the families and friends of over 3,000 victims will never go away and neither will our duty to honor those who gave their lives. We are more cautious, more sensitive and more aware of our blessings, but we are stronger than ever. Terrorists will never break the unity and pride shared by Americans. We should all take this anniversary to reflect on what those victims and families gave for our country. We should take this day to remember every single one of our troops in the Middle East, who volunteer to keep this nation safe and keep it the greatest nation. This anniversary shows us the meaning of vigilance in the War on Terror; our goal is and always has been to eliminate those that exist to harm Americans, so this country never has to endure an event like that day ever again. May God Bless America.”
09.08.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement regarding the passage of H.R. 3673, The Hurricane Katrina Supplemental for Fiscal Year 2005, today by the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill adds $50 billion to FEMA and $1.8 billion to the Department of Defense to continue recovery and rebuilding efforts after Hurricane Katrina. “There is no question that the people in the Gulf region need help, and we’re going to do everything in our power to rescue and save lives and responsibly rebuild the devastated areas. But it does Americans no good to continue throwing money at the situation without a plan of responsible spending and rebuilding and without a way to monitor where the money is going and how it’s being used. That’s why I voted no on $52 billion with no plan to help people. Let’s give the people in the Gulf real relief- and a rebuilding plan they can count on, with the security that we’re not just recreating the same environment for the same disaster with the same devastation to occur again. I don’t think it is too much for the American people to call upon their government for some accountability for billions of dollars. Washington should be telling us exactly where and how the money is being spent, and to use the money as efficiently as possible to help the people of the Gulf Coast rebuild their lives.”
09.02.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — As Congress passed a $10.5 billion emergency relief package today, U.S. Congressman Steve King called upon on Iowans to continue sending help and prayers to victims of Hurricane Katrina. The U.S. House reconvened in special session this afternoon and passed a $10.5 billion relief package by voice vote. Hurricane Katrina has left thousands homeless, sick, wounded and dead and has devastated the gulf coast. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is coordinating relief efforts in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. Once the President signs the relief package, FEMA will have adequate funds to continue relief efforts. King said he hoped the emergency aid would complete the rescue operations and give the region a good start on recovery. King called upon Iowans to muster any financial aid they can to send to credible organizations to help those in need. “In Iowa and across this nation, we’re staring in shock at pictures of devastation unimaginable just a week ago, as we see the desperation of our fellow Americans,” said King. “Iowans remember the floods of 1993 when we all pulled together to overcome our natural disaster. We received help from much of the country and other parts of the world. Now is the time for Iowans to return the favor. The victims of Katrina need our prayers and our donations. Now is the time to bow our heads and open our checkbooks. Every prayer and every dollar counts. This will be the longest and most expensive American recovery in our lifetimes.” King went on to comment about the current state of security in the southeast. “People are dying in New Orleans partly because rescue efforts have been turned back by armed thugs and looters who are determined to capitalize on this catastrophic event. Rescue helicopters, rescue boats, police officers, and national guardsmen have been fired upon by lawless looters bent upon spreading anarchy,” said King. “Thugs and looters must be brought under control quickly so that all of our resources can focus on the victims.” King said those interested in finding more ways to help the hurricane victims can find a list of organizations accepting donations on the FEMA website: http://www.fema.gov/press/2005/resources_katrina.shtm, donate to the Red Cross by phone at 1-800-HELP-NOW or by contacting his offices.
08.31.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa CARROLL — U.S. Congressman Steve King is calling for applicants to be appointed to the country’s leading military academies. Interested high-school seniors can contact King to apply for an appointment to the Naval or Air Force Academies or to the Military Academy at West Point. Each year, King nominates one high school senior to each Service Academy. In the fall, King sorts through applications and reviews comments made by the Fifth District Academy Review Board, comprised of retired military and civic leaders. King bases his nomination decisions on ACT/ SAT scores, community activities, extracurricular activities and outstanding moral behavior. “There are many excellent young Iowans that I encourage to apply,” said King. “Nominees will have a chance to receive a world-class education from one of our finest institutions and serve the greatest nation.” Interested high-school seniors may contact King’s Washington, D.C. office, by calling (202) 225-4426. Highlights of U.S. military academies: Air Force Academy West Point Naval Academy
08.08.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — Language expanding tax credits to ethanol and biodiesel producers, authored by U.S. Congressman Steve King, was signed into law today by President George W. Bush as part of the Energy Policy Act: The Energy Policy Act contains provisions authored by King in his first bill introduced in Congress that would extend the small ethanol producer tax credit to producers of up to 60 million gallons per year. In addition, King was the original author of legislation to expand to small biodiesel producers a ten-cent-per-gallon tax credit that is currently offered to small ethanol producers. This language was also included in the Energy Policy Act, signed today by the President. “This Energy Bill includes some long-overdue measures to take control over our own energy supply, and I have spent every day since I introduced my first bill in Congress to make sure we would fully utilize the renewable fuels that we’ve been producing in Iowa for years,” said King. “The production of renewable fuels is not only good for our energy security, but good for our rural economic security.” “This energy policy also has a good combination of renewable fuels, encouraging more domestic production of oil, and paving the way for more investment to increase natural gas supply, which will help all consumers, but especially farmers who use both natural gas and fertilizer of which natural gas is the primary feedstock,” added King. Western Iowa lays claim to six operating ethanol plants, two ethanol plants under development, three operating bio-diesel plants and one under development. King serves on the Agriculture Committee in the House of Representatives.
07.29.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— Congressman Steve King announced today Northwest Iowa will receive at least $35 million in federal funding for transportation projects. The Conference Report for H.R. 3, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, passed today by the U.S. House of Representatives, includes $21.4 million for Highway 20, $13 million for the Hoeven Corridor-Outer Drive and $1 million for County Highway K-35. King has aggressively pursued significant increases from the last Congress for the earmarks for Highway 20 and the Hoeven Corridor- Outer Drive. “A four-lane Highway 20 will pave the way to economic prosperity for Northwest Iowa,” said King. “This highway has been my number-one transportation priority since before I served in the Iowa state Senate or Congress. My commitment does not end with this earmark. I will continue to do everything in my power to see all projects through to completion.” In addition, County Highway K-35 will receive a total $1 million, the Loess Hill Scenic Byways and Resource Protection Project will receive $330,000 and the Lewis and Clark Trail Study will receive $250,000 in federal funds. “After several trips to the Senate to negotiate the protection and enhancement of Northwest Iowa projects, I’m pleased with the level of cooperation by everyone involved, including the U.S. 20 Corridor Association and Senator Grassley to bring an impressive earmark to four-lane Highway 20 and Northwest Iowa,” said King. “Our focus has been on funding the west end of four-lane Highway 20, but it’s important to recognize Congressman Nussle’s efforts to authorize $25 million for a new Highway 20 bridge over the Mississippi in Dubuque as an essential link to the overall project. In total, four-lane Highway 20 received $46.9 million today,” added King. King has worked for the completed expansion of a four-lane Highway 20 that runs east and west through Northwest Iowa since before his time in the state Senate. Iowa has three 4-lane interstate highways running north and south, yet seventy-four percent of Iowa traffic runs east and west. Only Interstate 80 exists to meet east/west four lane highway demand. The piece of the U.S. 20 Corridor that remains unfinished is approximately 90 miles long and runs from Moorland in Webster County to Sioux City through Woodbury, Ida and Sac counties.
07.28.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King today voted in favor of the Conference Report for H.R. 6, the Energy Policy Act. The Energy Policy Act contains provisions authored by King that would extend tax credits to ethanol and biodiesel producers. The first bill King introduced in Congress was a push to extend the small ethanol producer tax credit to producers of up to 60 million gallons per year. Today’s Conference Report includes King’s language, which will expand the Small Ethanol Producer tax credit to those that produce up to 60 million gallons annually, for a tax credit of up to $1.5 million per year per producer. In addition, King was the original author of legislation to expand to small biodiesel producers a ten-cent-per-gallon tax credit that is currently offered to small ethanol producers. This language was also included in the Conference Report. “Western Iowa is one of the most productive areas in the nation for renewable energy,” said King. “These tax credits will help biodiesel catch up to the great success we’ve seen in ethanol.” The Conference Report also includes a Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) that would provide for a market of 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuel by 2012. King co-sponsored legislation for an eight billion gallon RFS. “We must take ownership of our own energy security, and adding value to the commodities we have produced for years will strengthen our rural economy,” added King. Western Iowa lays claim to six operating ethanol plants, two ethanol plants under development, three operating bio-diesel plants and one under development. King serves on the Agriculture Committee in the House of Representatives.
07.28.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King last night urged his colleagues to support expanding markets for Iowa farmers by voting for the Dominican Republic - Central America Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 217-215. DR-CAFTA will open up the trade markets of Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua to U.S. exporters duty free. Nearly 80% of products from the region, including 99% of their agricultural products, currently enter the U.S. duty free. “We can’t afford not to be a player in that trade region. This agreement will provide U.S. farmers with unequaled access to a large market with growing incomes and growing demands for agricultural and food products. The elimination of tariffs will provide American farmers with advantages over producers in Canada, Europe, and other countries. This will help to restore lost U.S. market share and increase overall exports to the six DR-CAFTA countries,” said King. “DR-CAFTA will increase our farm exports, allow the U.S. to compete with the rest of the world, and reduce our trade deficit by $756 million.” “DR-CAFTA is the right thing to do because it will strengthen democracy through economic growth and open societies based on the rule of law. Stable economies support stable democracies, which are critical to our own national security,” added King. DR-CAFTA countries are particularly important to Iowa’s corn, soybean, pork and beef producers. Last year, Iowa exported $31 million in merchandise shipments to the DR-CAFTA region. DR-CAFTA would boost U.S. farm exports by $1.5 billion a year, according to the American Farm Bureau. In addition, the National Association of Manufacturers estimates DR-CAFTA will increase goods exports by $1 billion per year. The Senate passed DR-CAFTA with by a vote of 54 to 45. DR-CAFTA will:
07.27.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King spent the day in Washington urging his colleagues to support a bill that would expand affordable healthcare options to millions of uninsured Americans. The Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 525, would expand access to health coverage for uninsured families by allowing small businesses to band together through associations to purchase quality health care for workers and their families at a lower cost. The Small Business Health Fairness Act passed the House last night, 263 - 165. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, 45 million Americans lack health insurance. It has been estimated that sixty percent or more of the working uninsured work for small businesses who lack the ability to provide health benefits for their workers. Many small businesses are stuck with high health care costs and have few providers to choose from. The bill would allow small businesses to band together through association health plans to purchase health insurance for their workers at a lower cost. Doing so would increase small businesses’ bargaining power with health care providers, and lower the overhead costs for plans up to thirty percent – benefits that large corporations and unions already enjoy. “Small businesses are the backbone of our productive, expanding economy. They create eighty percent of the new jobs,” said King. “It’s common sense to give those entrepreneurs the same opportunities to provide health care to their families that large corporations get.”
07.27.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Almost four years ago, a mass murder was carried out on innocent Americans on our own soil. These attacks, carried out solely because some people hate America and the freedoms it represents, ripped away our security and devastated thousands of families. The intricate murder plot was developed in our own country, right under the noses of our intelligence and law enforcement communities. Since then, our government has spent time and resources on uniting our government forces and providing them the tools they need to work efficiently and effectively in a combined force. In an effort to prevent such a tragedy from ever occurring again, Congress passed, by huge bipartisan margins, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA Patriot) Act. In Congress, the Patriot Act is once again the center of discussion regarding terror plots, national security and the rights of those who want to kill Americans. Over the past four years, much mischaracterization of the Patriot Act has taken place. Critics of the Act claim the potential for exploitation, but the fact is they can’t name a single person who is a victim of abuse of the law during the course of almost four years. The Patriot Act, in reality, gives law enforcement some of the tools they need to intercept those who would love nothing more than to orchestrate another devastating attack on American soil. Before the Patriot Act, a wall existed between intelligence and law enforcement agencies, which resulted in terrorists being able to sneak under our radar. Now all government officials have the ability to work together to enforce our laws and protect our nation. Congress must now reauthorize certain provisions in the Patriot Act that will otherwise lapse this year. If we allow the provisions to expire, we are just as vulnerable as we were on September 10, 2001. We must not allow those holes to be reopened. People need to know that the Patriot Act’s protections of privacy and civil liberties are greater than those for ordinary criminal investigations. Moreover, it applies the same tools to terrorists that law enforcement has used for years to investigate the mob and drug criminals. It holds the government accountable for its use of the law; judges must approve most law enforcement activities, and the Attorney General must frequently report to Congress about how the law is being used. The Patriot Act gives intelligence and law enforcement officials the tools they need to fight terrorism. Unlike before September 10, 2001, intelligence and law enforcement agencies can now request and share wiretap and internet information. Terrorists use the latest technologies to stay in contact and make plans to kill Americans. We can’t fight modern terrorism with pre-9/11 laws and procedures. I challenge anyone to say we should be respecting the rights of terrorists to plot murderous attacks in this country. Are we that far removed from the pictures of September 11, its devastation to families and friends and our economy, that we’re debating the rights of mass murderers? There’s no reason to tiptoe around terrorists. The Patriot Act works, it protects civil liberties and it saves lives.
07.21.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—As the Conference Committee convenes to work on the Energy Bill, Iowa Congressman Steve King today expressed his support for an eight billion gallon Renewable Fuels Standard. “I believe we need to take ownership of our own energy security and fully utilize the capabilities we have to produce reliable, renewable fuels,” said King. “Iowa is one of the best areas in the country to see the rapid growth in the production of renewable fuels.” “Better yet, adding value to the commodities we have been producing for years will pump more dollars into our local economies. I’m urging my colleagues in the House to fight for an eight billion gallon Renewable Fuels Standard in the final Energy Bill,” added King. Earlier this year, King cosponsored legislation to increase America’s renewable fuels, including ethanol and biodiesel. The Fuels Security Act of 2005 creates a Renewable Fuels Standard which will increase use to at least eight billion gallons of renewable fuel by 2012. Domestic renewable fuels production has increased dramatically over recent years; Western Iowa lays claim to six operating ethanol plants, two ethanol plants under development, three operating bio-diesel plants and one under development. Currently the U.S. has over 100 ethanol and bio-diesel plants with the capacity to produce more than 3.7 billion gallons of renewable fuels for transportation fuels. King serves on the House Agriculture Committee.
07.20.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Congressman Steve King issued the following statement today regarding President Bush’s nomination of Judge John Roberts to the U.S. Supreme Court: “At every stop throughout two winning campaigns for president, George W. Bush announced that he would nominate strict constructionists to the bench. Presumed vacancies on the Supreme Court were cornerstone issues in both elections, and candidate Bush went so far as to insist his nominees would be in the mold of Justices Scalia and Thomas. I am encouraged that President Bush kept his promise in nominating Judge John Roberts to the highest court in our nation. Roberts has proven his dedication to our Constitution and the intent of our Founding Fathers. The integrity of the American judicial system depends on Supreme Court justices who abide by their oaths to support and defend our Constitution. I trust Roberts will stem the losses of our Constitutional rights, so help him God. The Senate has already determined that Roberts is qualified when they confirmed him by unanimous consent over two years ago for a seat on the DC Court of Appeals. I call upon my colleagues in the Senate to fulfill their constitutional duty and confirm Roberts’ nomination without delay so the Supreme Court can begin its new term with a full bench.”
07.20.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King introduced an amendment on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today to hold the government accountable to ensuring U.S. AIDS relief funding does not go to organizations that support prostitution and sex trafficking. The House passed the King amendment today by voice vote during debate of H.R. 2601, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act. Under the Global AIDS law currently in effect, the U.S. cannot give funds to nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in support of AIDS relief that do not have a policy opposing prostitution and sex trafficking. King’s amendment would ensure the U.S. State Department is enforcing this law by requiring the State Department to report each NGO that receives funding through President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, the date funding was provided, and the date the organization filed their commitment opposing prostitution and sex trafficking with the U.S. King called upon his colleagues today to support the amendment, calling it common sense that the State Department should report to U.S. taxpayers where their money goes. “We owe it to the American taxpayers to enforce our own laws, and hold our government accountable to the standards we’ve put in place,” said King. “We need to be able to assure them that their hard-earned money is not being used to support prostitution or sex trafficking.” “It is essential that our surrogates in foreign countries, those to whom we give American taxpayer dollars, do not give mixed messages to the victims of prostitution and sex trafficking,” added King. The Foreign Relations Act authorizes funding for the U.S. Department of State, U.S. International broadcasting activities and security assistance to America’s allies for fiscal years 2006-2007. The bill includes major policy changes to reduce the threat of the black-market trade in nuclear weapons technology to strengthen American national security.
07.16.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King this week successfully secured a $3 million earmark for new flood hazard plans to support economic development along the Missouri River. King voted to support agriculture and travel along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2005 (WRDA), H.R. 2864, which passed the House of Representatives this week, 406 - 14. The bill now awaits action by the Senate. WRDA authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers river and harbor projects and provides funding for the development and conservation of water resources. Due to changes in land use and development along the Missouri river, new detailed flood plain information is needed for the 313-mile span of the Missouri River from Rulo, Nebraska to Yankton, South Dakota. The current flood plain management, the Lower Missouri River Flow Frequency Study, was created from information gathered 28 years ago and does not meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program. Outdated flood danger information drives up insurance rates for communities and creates obstacles for development projects. King secured a $3 million earmark within the bill for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to prepare new flood plain information for those stream reaches. “Old and inaccurate data is stopping some economic development projects and costing some owners unnecessary flood insurance premiums,” said King. “This funding will help get government out of the way and let businesses and families make plans for prosperity.”
07.01.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement regarding the retirement of Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor: “I consider Justice O’Connor a friend whose dignity, grace and encouraging personality helped open the door for dialogue between Congress and the Court. I have enormous respect for Justice O’Connor, appointed 24 years ago almost to the day by President Ronald Reagan. She broke through many barriers throughout her career, including serving in an historic role for the nation by becoming the first woman to serve the United States on its highest court. Earlier, President Bush promised he will appoint some who ‘would strictly interpret the Constitution of the United States’ to fill a Supreme Court vacancy. I am encouraged he will stand by his commitment to appoint a Justice who knows the Constitution is a concrete document, and will abide by the Court’s Constitutional duty to uphold the Constitution, not amend it from the bench. The American people deserve just treatment, a full hearing and an up or down vote on the next United States Supreme Court nominee.”
07.01.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement regarding the retirement of Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor: “I consider Justice O’Connor a friend whose dignity, grace and encouraging personality helped open the door for dialogue between Congress and the Court. I have enormous respect for Justice O’Connor, appointed 24 years ago almost to the day by President Ronald Reagan. She broke through many barriers throughout her career, including serving in an historic role for the nation by becoming the first woman to serve the United States on its highest court. Earlier, President Bush promised he will appoint some who ‘would strictly interpret the Constitution of the United States’ to fill a Supreme Court vacancy. I am encouraged he will stand by his commitment to appoint a Justice who knows the Constitution is a concrete document, and will abide by the Court’s Constitutional duty to uphold the Constitution, not amend it from the bench. The American people deserve just treatment, a full hearing and an up or down vote on the next United States Supreme Court nominee.”
06.30.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — Days after a second BSE case surfaced in the United States, Iowa Congressman Steve King today introduced legislation to establish a national livestock identification system by 2009. The Livestock Identification and Marketing Opportunities (LIMO) Act would establish a producer-controlled national identification system for the livestock industry that would be run by stakeholders. King authored the LIMO Act to provide an immediate response mechanism for animal disease control, ensure the U.S. place in the world market, protect our livestock producers and provide a framework for producers and breeders to capitalize on their proprietary carcass information. LIMO would establish a Livestock Identification Board to launch and maintain the livestock identification system. Participation in the system would be mandatory for cattle, swine, sheep, goats and poultry. The voting members of the Board would be one representative from each industry -- comprised of cattle, swine, sheep and goats and poultry producers, livestock market operators, meat processors and one at-large member. Non-voting representatives on the Board will be from the USDA and State or tribal agriculture agencies. In addition, under King’s bill, livestock and premises information collected for the system will be by law exempted from the Freedom of Information Act. "There’s no question we must have a functioning livestock identification system as soon as possible,” said King. “It’s a big step for our producers, so rather than slapping another government restriction on our livestock industry, I seek to create a system that would be developed by the people it affects the most, and create it in a way that will benefit everyone. In the rare case of disease outbreak, a livestock ID system will act like an insurance policy for our producers. Our export customers can be assured that we know the approximate age of each animal and its history.” King has been researching the bill since he was elected to Congress. He investigated the operating livestock identification systems and met with producers in Australia and Canada, the leaders among countries with established livestock identification systems. He also spoke with their agriculture industries about their successes and mistakes. In addition, King gathered input from across the U.S. livestock industry.
06.28.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today introduced legislation to return lost jobs back to legal workers. The New Illegal Deduction Elimination Act (New IDEA) would make wages and benefits paid to illegal aliens nondeductible for federal tax purposes. New IDEA would enforce current federal laws that prohibit the hire of illegal aliens. In addition, New IDEA aims to help law-abiding businesses compete on the same playing field, so they don’t have to compete with illegal labor wages. Hiring illegal workers violates federal law. However, last year, no employers in America were sanctioned for hiring illegal workers. New IDEA would protect employers who verify their employees’ legal status through Basic Pilot, an existing electronic program that verifies legal status instantly through connection with the Social Security Administration and the Department of Homeland Security. “It’s clear that employer sanctions aren’t working, and it’s time to try something new. New IDEA makes our immigration laws enforceable and removes the jobs magnet that draws illegal aliens to the U.S. to work in violation of our laws,” said King. “It’s simple; if you hire illegal workers, you won’t be able to deduct their wages on corporate taxes. The government isn’t going to subsidize hiring workers who take jobs away from legal workers.” If passed by both houses in Congress and signed by the President, New IDEA would take effect starting for fiscal year 2006. New IDEA has seventeen cosponsors.
06.23.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision today in Kelo v. City of New London, that determines local governments can seize homes and businesses via eminent domain against the owner’s will. “The Fifth Amendment of the United States Constitution says, ‘…nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.’ For years, Americans thought the cannon that protected their castle was the Constitution. I’ll say there is no mortal force to preserve our Constitution until the people understand the relentless judicial desecration of original intent of our Constitutional Founders. The Supreme Court wrongly said that your property rights don’t exist if those property rights interfere with a more powerful public or private interest.”
06.17.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — In support of fiscal responsibility and government accountability, U.S. Congressman Steve King today introduced an amendment to limit the U.S. contribution to the United Nations Works and Relief Agency (UNWRA) as part of the United Nations Reform Act of 2005, or H.R. 2745. The amendment passed the House by voice vote. King’s amendment would limit the U.S. contribution to UNWRA to no more than the next highest paying Arab nation, not exceeding 22% of the overall UNWRA budget. Currently, the U.S. funds about $127 million, more than one-fifth, of the overall UNWRA budget, while Saudi Arabia contributes about $1.8 million, or a little over one percent of the U.S. contribution. The amendment was praised by Rep. Lantos, Democratic Ranking Member of the House International Relations Committee, as a good piece of legislation that will force the Arab nations to help the Palestinian refugees instead of using them for political advantage. The UNWRA was established in 1949 to provide relief and social services, such as food, housing, clothing, basic health and education to Palestinian refugees living in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria. Individually, the U.S., Sweden, Japan and Italy pay more into the UNWRA than all the Arab countries combined. “Some of these Arab countries are sitting on enormous wealth and leaving their Arab brothers and sisters to live in refugee camps,” said King. H.R. 2745 would require the Secretary of State to press much-needed changes at the United Nations. The bill requires increased accountability, the establishment of an Office of Ethics, the adoption of a uniform and enforceable Code of Conduct for all personnel in UN peacekeeping operations and requires an itemized UN budget justification for Congressional-approved funding for these UN dues. If these conditions aren’t met, the bill would require the U.S. to withhold 50 percent of the U.S. assessed contributions to the regular budget of the UN, starting in 2007. The U.S. pays almost a billion dollars per year to the UN in dues and for numerous other programs, including paying almost one-fourth of the UN operating budget. “Reform of the United Nations would be ideal if the United Nations would consider the interests of the United States. But since the U.N. is more interested in funding and supporting corrupt regimes, I support withdrawal of funding from the U.N.” King spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives today, urging his colleagues to show the American people that the U.S. government cannot continue sending millions of taxpayer dollars to the United Nations without demanding accountability so that the funds will not go directly to fund corruption and waste. “We are telling the UN today that they have two years. Two years to clean up their act,” said King.
06.17.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement regarding the Iowa Supreme Court refusing to rule on last year’s same-sex divorce case. “The Iowa Supreme Court today shirked their Constitutional duty to rein in a judge who acted outside the law and his jurisdiction. Judge Neary granted a “dissolution of marriage” to a couple who was not married under the laws of any state. One of the principles of law is that you can’t dissolve that which you can’t recognize in the first place. I filed a case with the Supreme Court to ask them to rein in lower court judge who illegally granted a same sex divorce, even though Iowa law does not allow same-sex marriage or divorce. The Iowa Supreme Court did not rule today on whether a lesbian divorce can be granted by an Iowa court. Instead, they refused to rule on the case at all and punted the real issue to another day. They refused to hear the case on the technical grounds of standing, but did not address the issue. As a legislator I was involved with the Iowa law that says same-sex marriages from other states are not valid in Iowa. If I and the other legislators who joined me to rein in the runaway judiciary did not have standing to defend the law is court, then who would?”
06.15.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today introduced an amendment to enforce current immigration law, helping local and federal law enforcement work together toward common goals. The amendment passed by voice vote. H.R. 2862, the Science, the Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006, is expected to pass the House tomorrow; it will then be taken up by the Senate. King’s amendment to H.R. 2862, the Science, the Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006, would dedicate funds to enforce current federal law that requires government entities at all levels to comply with federal immigration law. Federal immigration law is currently not enforced, because some cities prohibit police officers from requesting immigration status from offenders and reporting it to federal authorities. This means criminal aliens are not detected or deported, and it allows them to remain on our streets. “Thousands of Americans die at the hands of illegal aliens every year. Our state and local governments serve as the front line of defense against terrorism and criminal aliens,” said King. “Every murder, every rape, every violent gang crime committed against Americans by illegal aliens is an utterly preventable crime. If we better enforce our immigration laws to keep criminals out, we will save lives. We must use the law enforcement resources we have, at every level, to enforce our laws, with the end result of making our nation a safer place for our grandchildren to grow up in.”
06.09.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— Iowa Congressman Steve King today announced a $1.2 million federal appropriation for the Hungry Canyons Alliance in Western Iowa as part of H.R. 2744, the Fiscal Year 2006 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, which passed the House of Representatives last night, 408 - 18. King worked closely with Chairman Bonilla for the appropriation and received the full amount requested for the program. The Hungry Canyons Alliance works to research and implement solutions to the problems associated with stream channel erosion. Fine loess soils and their tendency to erode have caused many streams to down-cut significantly over the last 50 years, exposing utility lines and carrying away thousands of acres of farmland. Channel erosion has cost Iowa an estimated $1 billion in damage to infrastructure and farmland. “Iowa has been blessed with some of the most productive soil in the world, and we have a responsibility to protect the profitability while keeping our infrastructure and our farmland intact,” said King. “This funding, added with support from other levels, will go a long way in preventing a more expensive problem for our communities in the future.” The annual agriculture appropriations bill allocated $16.83 billion to support farmers and rural America, food and nutrition programs and health and human safety programs. This funding level was held the same as Fiscal Year 2005. King proposed an amendment to the bill that would require the USDA to report to Congress on the National Animal Identification System pilot programs funded in FY05, as well as provide an economic analysis and cost estimate of the proposed system. “For the sake of disease surveillance, trade and the future of the livestock industry, I want to see a system up and running ASAP,” said King. “But first we must know what has been tested and been proven to work out on the farms. Farmers are concerned about the cost and logistical headache they could incur. I share their concerns, and I also see this system as a potential area where our government could create another costly bureaucracy. In order to plan successfully for this system, we must have both a cost estimate and an overall economic analysis.” “At the end of the day, after discussing the amendment with Chairman Bonilla, we agreed to work on this issue further when the bill goes to conference,” added King.
06.01.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King recently cosponsored the Marriage Protection Act, which would protect states so that a single judge can’t impose same-sex marriage on the rest of the United States. The Marriage Protection Act, H.R. 1100, would prevent federal judges from ruling on cases that involve the definition of marriage. Marriage under federal law has already been defined as existing only between one man and one woman through the Defense of Marriage Act, which was signed into law by President Clinton in 1996. “Marriage is the fabric of our society, and we must do what we can to protect it from activist judges,” said King. “The people only, through their elected representatives, have the right to define marriage for our society. This legislation would keep unelected judges from making marriage law for the entire United States.” “Marriage is our most basic social institution. All of the values of society flow through marriage from parents to children. Marriage is the institution that defines our culture,” added King. Thousands of same-sex couples from at least 46 states have received marriage licenses in Massachusetts, California and Oregon, and returned to their home states. More than 40 states have statutes that define marriage as the union of a man and a woman – and these laws can be threatened by state and federal court actions.
05.27.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — Leading up to Memorial Day, with the support of Iowa Congressman Steve King, the House Judiciary Committee passed a Constitutional amendment that would allow Congress to make it a crime to burn the American flag. Although almost eighty percent of Americans support a Constitutional amendment banning desecration of the American flag, in 1989 and 1990 the Supreme Court ruled that laws passed by Congress violated the First Amendment. Passing a constitutional amendment is the only way to protect the American flag from acts of desecration. “Our Founding Fathers would have never imagined the need for an amendment to the Constitution like this,” said King. “They fought so hard to be able to display the American flag, and they did so proudly. This Memorial Day weekend, we must remember all of those who fought for our country and this flag. It’s not just patriotic to want to protect this flag, but our duty as Americans.” “This flag has led the way into battle, been planted on the moon and draped the coffins of Americans who have sacrificed their lives for our county. It was raised at Iwo Jima and in the debris at Ground Zero. It is the symbol of freedom to everyone in the world,” added King. H.J. Res. 10, the Flag Protection Amendment, will need to be passed by two-thirds of the full House and Senate and be ratified by three-fourths of the states to become law. The amendment has been passed by the House with more than the two-thirds majority needed in the past five Congresses. In addition, all 50 state legislatures have petitioned Congress to approve a flag protection amendment and send it to them for ratification. The amendment has been considered in the Senate twice in the last five Congresses, and both times it failed to garner the two-thirds majority needed.
05.25.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today announced he has secured a total of $25 million for area water projects. The U.S. House of Representatives last night passed the Fiscal Year 2005 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, which includes $15 million for Lewis and Clark Rural Water System and $10 million for the Perry Creek Flood Control Project. King worked closely with Rep. Hobson (R-OH), Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, to double the earmark for the project to $15 million, which originally was designated $7 million by the Committee. Pending approval by the Senate, the earmark designates $15 million for Lewis and Clark to provide safe, reliable drinking water to approximately 200,000 people and 21 communities in the region. Iowa, Minnesota and South Dakota face regional water problems, including shallow wells, aquifers prone to contamination, compliance with new federal drinking water standards, and increasing water demand. “Adequate funding for rural water projects like Lewis and Clark is extremely important to the health and well-being and economic future of our area,” said King. “It’s important to keep this project on schedule in order to provide the much-needed water source to area communities as soon as possible and promote economic growth for years to come.” King also pushed for a $10 million earmark for the Perry Creek Flood Control project to control catastrophic flooding that has occurred through the center of Sioux City. The funds are needed to complete the phase of the project that will remove the threat of flooding for 457 businesses and 1,025 homes in the flood plain affected by Perry Creek. In addition, the completed project will eliminate the flood insurance need for almost 80% of the properties and significantly reduce the need for the rest. “Sioux City cannot afford another catastrophic flood like we have endured in the past,” said King. “The completion of this project is crucial to protect our homes and businesses, and to finally lower the burden of high flood insurance.”
05.24.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — Iowa Congressman Steve King today urged his colleagues to support research that shows true promise for disease victims and raises no ethical questions, and to oppose taxpayer funding of research that requires the killing of human embryos and has yielded no results. King encouraged passage of H.R. 2520, the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005, and the defeat of H.R. 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005. “The debate in Congress is about imposing a tax on Americans and compel them to dig into their pockets and contribute to science that ends the life of one human being for the questionable potential of improving the life of others,” said King. “Many Americans oppose scientific experiments that kill human embryos, and they shouldn’t have to pay for it.” The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005 would require taxpayer funding for embryonic stem cell research. While already legal, taxpayers have never been required to fund the killing of human life. Frozen embryos intended for fertilization can be adopted by families hoping for children. Over 80 children have been born to date through this adoption process. “I believe that we should pursue all ethical avenues of disease treatment. On this issue, medicine and ethics are not at war,” said King. “The fact is that other forms of stem cell research which do not kill human embryos have shown much greater promise for disease treatment.” Cord blood stem cells are taken from discarded umbilical cords and placenta and are already treating thousands of patients with nearly 70 diseases, from Leukemia to Parkinson’s Disease. In addition to encouraging research, the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act provides federal funding to increase the number of cord blood units available to match and treat patients who need them most. It would also establish a new federal database so doctors and patients could research and find therapy that is best suited to treat their specific life-threatening condition.
05.24.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King issued the following statement regarding the deal reached by seven of 55 Republican Senators to allow only certain Bush judicial nominees an up or down vote: “The Senate deal yesterday delayed the inevitable conflict on judicial confirmation and the filibuster until we have a Supreme Court nominee. I think those seven Republicans are short sighted if they believe they cut a deal that will be honored when a Supreme Court nominee comes before the Senate. It’s a bad omen for the make up of the Supreme Court when the time comes. By letting a few Senators block the Senate’s Constitutional obligation, we are in danger of approving a compromised nominee who might not be the best Justice for the Court.”
05.20.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — Iowa Congressman Steve King wants the U.S. to take ownership of its own energy security by finding new domestic energy sources, which would decrease U.S. dependence on foreign oil and lower consumer prices. King spoke yesterday to the House of Representatives in favor of policies that would open the door to more energy supplies. With the price of natural gas at an all-time high, natural gas demand will increase 30 percent over the next four years, causing natural gas prices to continue to rise. The agricultural industry depends on natural gas for irrigation, crop drying, heating, food processing and largely for nitrogen fertilizer production. The surge in natural gas prices over the last four years spurred nitrogen fertilizer costs to jump nearly 50 percent at the farm level, causing a growing reliance on imported fertilizer and a strain on domestic fertilizer producers. A recent study by Iowa State University estimates that farmers will pay 21 percent more for gasoline and 50 percent more for diesel fuel this year compared to last year. “I am concerned that the Corn Belt is being held hostage to high gas, diesel and natural gas prices. High energy prices and the dependence of foreign sources of energy are hurting our small businesses and agricultural industry,” said King. “Opening the door to more energy supplies is key to solving our energy crisis.” King also testified yesterday before the House Small Business Committee about the importance of finding more sources for domestic energy production. “Farmers utilize diesel and gasoline to operate their equipment and transport their product. Farmers have had to tighten their belts as prices have increased. Therefore, I am in strong support of an energy bill that allows for exploration in ANWR to increase the domestic oil supply,” King told the committee. King is a member of the House Agriculture and Small Business Committees. He is a founding co-chair of the House Ag Energy Users Caucus.
05.18.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King urged his colleagues last night to pass an amendment to the Homeland Security Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006, H.R. 1817, to provide resources to local law enforcement, so state and local officers are able to help enforce the nation’s immigration laws and keep citizens safe. The House passed the amendment by a voice vote. The amendment authorizes $40 million to states to be reimbursed for costs associated with having state and local law enforcement personnel trained to enforce Federal immigration laws. “Our state and local governments serve as the front line of defense against terrorism and criminal aliens. This amendment allows them to do their jobs and to better protect our nation’s citizens,” said King. “Illegal immigration is a nationwide problem, not one that stops in our border states. It’s common sense to provide local law enforcement officers with the funds they need to be able to enforce the laws, especially those so critical to our national security.”
05.12.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — With the urging of Iowa Congressman Steve King, the U.S. House of Representatives last night passed the Gang Deterrence and Community Protection Act of 2005 to crack down on the rising gang violence that has infiltrated rural communities. The Gang Deterrence and Community Protection Act of 2005 would increase gang-related prosecutions, prevent gang-related crimes and increase federal funding to support law enforcement efforts at all levels. Once seen as an urban problem, gangs are increasingly becoming a problem for rural communities. Not only are they expanding their reach across the nation, gangs are also becoming increasingly sophisticated and organized into crime syndicates. “Gang violence isn’t just an urban problem, it’s hitting our rural communities,” said King. “These gang members are using their sophisticated networks to spread domestic terrorism from California highways to Iowa farmlands. In many gangs, as many as 100% of their members are illegal aliens. We will do whatever we can to support local law enforcement in their efforts to hold these people accountable and take them off the streets.” The bill would toughen penalties for gang crimes specifically by mandating life in prison or death for any crime resulting in death, institute mandatory minimums for years in prison for gang-related crimes, and extend the statue of limitations for violent crime from 5 years to 15 years. It would also allow prosecution of any or all members of a gang for violent crimes committed by one member and impose stiffer penalties for illegal immigrants involved in gang crime. In addition, it aims to support local and state law enforcement in their efforts to reduce gang violence by allocating federal funds to hire additional state and local prosecutors and purchase equipment to increase the identification and prosecution of violent offenders.
05.09.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King (R-IA) has introduced a bipartisan resolution that encourages the newly-elected Palestinian leaders to take all steps in preventing terrorism and demands that the Palestinian Authority work with Israel to protect all innocent individuals regardless of citizenship. The Concurrent Resolution, co-introduced with Rep. Anthony Weiner (D-NY), condemns terrorism on U.S. citizens and honors the U.S. Citizens killed or injured by Palestinian terrorists. Since the late Yasser Arafat renounced violence in the Oslo Peace Accords in 1993, at least 53 innocent U.S. citizens have been killed by Palestinian terrorists. In February, Islamic jihad claimed responsibility for a bombing in a Tel Aviv nightclub, which killed four people and injured 40. “Israel has been battling an irrational enemy since its existence, and the U.S. supports Israel in their battle against terror,” said King. “The United States and Israel have been very clear in their approach to terrorism, you’re either with us or against us. However, Palestinian terrorism continues, as we can see by very recent attacks.” “As a result of the newly elected Palestinian leadership, new optimism in the region is obvious. Still, they must recognize their duty to the security of the entire region.” added King.
05.05.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — With the support of Iowa Congressman Steve King, the U.S. House today passed the Conference Report for the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, which provides funding to support troops and strengthen domestic security. If passed by the Senate next week and signed by the President, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act would provide $75.9 billion in defense related funding, which is $921 million over the Administration’s request for force protection. This funding would protect troops in the field and prepare troops in training. In addition it would increase insurance and survivor benefits for military families and include new insurance benefits for soldiers who have suffered traumatic injuries. Maximum life insurance benefits would increase from $250,000 to $400,000. The onetime survivor benefit for combat families would be increased from $12,000 to $100,000. “We must provide the very best in armor and protection for soldiers who lay their lives on the line every day to keep this nation safe, and give their families the promise that we will be there for them,” said King. The Supplemental bill would provide funds to strengthen domestic security with the inclusion of the Real ID Act and $635 million in increased border security and enforcement. The Real ID Act requires federal standards for drivers’ licenses, closing the loophole that allowed the September 11 hijackers to board planes. Real ID also closes asylum loopholes and strengthens deportation laws, allowing the U.S. to deport aliens involved in terrorist activity. “We’ve been working for three and a half years to make sure what happened on September 11 never can happen again,” said King. “Passing the Real ID Act is a giant step forward in securing this nation and preventing future terror attacks.” The Supplemental also aims to strengthen border security through directives to hire and train additional criminal investigators and Immigration Enforcement Agents, and an additional 500 border patrol agents.
05.03.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Steve King today called upon his colleagues across the rotunda of the U.S. Capitol to live up to their constitutional obligation. King is a leader in a group of House members lobbying Senate members not to deny an up or down vote to judicial nominees. The group’s message to the Senate is if they oppose the nominees, they should vote no, but not refuse to vote. “There is no excuse to deny these judges and deny the American people the benefit of a yes or no vote. A minority of Senators are denying a majority of people a voice in the confirmation process. The nominations process was established by the Founding Fathers so the Senate could provide advice and consent to the President. The Founding Fathers never intended for a minority of Senators to veto a nominee by refusing to even vote. I think it’s time to call for accountability on the part of certain Senators who are creating gridlock and preventing the judicial process from moving forward. When we took office, we all took oaths to uphold the Constitution- and that document expressly lays out the duty of the Senate to give advice and consent on judicial nominations.”
05.03.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C. — Iowa Congressman Steve King recently received the “Friend of Taxpayers” Award from the National Taxpayers Union for his work to lower taxes and reduce government waste. The National Taxpayers Union gives this award to members of Congress for their commitment to reduce or control federal spending, taxes, debt and regulation. King received an “A” for his work to hold down government spending and tied for 21st place out of U.S. House members. This is the 25th year the National Taxpayers Union has given this award. “Government cannot continue to stand in the way of economic growth and economic freedom,” said King. “Individuals, families and small businesses need relief from our horrendous tax code and reckless spending. I refuse to saddle future generations with tons of our debt. It is my Constitutional duty to protect everyone’s right to spend, save and invest their hard-earned income.” “If every Member of Congress had voted as responsibly as Rep. King did in 2004, Americans could enjoy much lower taxes and less waste in government,” said John Berthoud, President of the National Taxpayers Union. “Overburdened taxpayers in Iowa and across the nation owe Rep. King a debt of gratitude for his hard work on their behalf.”
04.28.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King tonight issued the following statement regarding the passage of Conference Report for the Budget Resolution for FY 2005: “Although government spending isn’t as lean as it should be, this is a responsible budget that will be instrumental in lowering the growth of government spending. It will accomplish the goal to cut deficit spending in half by 2009, accommodate $106 billion in tax cuts over the next five years and it allows for a fiscally responsible budget while keeping necessary funding for programs that Americans depend on. In addition, for the first time since 1997, this budget reforms the process and requires Congress to find mandatory savings in spending. This process will force congressional committees to find $34.7 billion in savings for the federal government. This budget does not get us to a balanced budget as I would like, but it sets us on the path to reform.” The budget resolution sets forth spending levels for the upcoming fiscal year 2006 and the following four fiscal years. As a concurrent resolution, it is not presented to the President for his signature, thus it does not become law. By setting forth a comprehensive statement of congressional priorities on budgetary matters, however, the budget resolution provides a framework for future legislative action regarding spending.
04.28.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— With the support of Iowa Congressman Steve King, the U.S. House of Representatives last night passed legislation by a vote of 270 - 157 to return to parents the right to make decisions affecting their own children. The Child Interstate Abortion Notification Act (CIANA) would make it a federal crime to transport a minor across state lines in order to circumvent a state law requiring parental involvement in a minor’s abortion decision. Although 44 states have enacted parental involvement statutes for underage girls seeking abortions, often people outside the family take girls across state lines to circumvent these laws. The other adults are frequently grown men who have sexually exploited the young girls. “We must not continue to allow people to work around these state laws, when frequently those who are taking these girls and forcing them to have secret, out-of-state abortions are rapists, older men or abusive boyfriends who use the abortion to cover their own tracks,” said King. Secondly, CIANA would require abortion providers to notify a parent or guardian before performing an abortion on a minor in states without a parental notification requirement when she is a resident of a state that requires parental notification for abortions on underage girls. King deemed it a major victory which returns fundamental parenting rights back to parents and protects the health and safety of young girls. “School nurses must obtain parental permission to dispense aspirin to our kids, but when a child is seeking an abortion, the parents aren’t notified,” said King.
04.27.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King has introduced legislation to protect employers and hard-working Americans from being intimidated into joining organized labor unions. The Truth in Employment Act of 2005, H.R. 1816, would put an end to “salting,” the practice of union organizers seeking employment at non-union businesses with the sole purpose of organizing union chapters. Salts often bully employers into employment and force them into expensive lawsuits, which can put them out of business. The Truth in Employment Act would return balance to the National Labor Relations Act to protect both unions and workers, as it was intended. Unions would keep the right to organize employers by legitimate means, while employers would retain their right to choose who to hire. The bill would restore employers’ right to hire only bona fide employees – those who seek legitimate employment to further the best interest of the business. In addition, it would protect employers from being intimidated into handing their shops to organized unions. The bill also protects legitimate workers from losing their jobs from frivolous lawsuits that jeopardize their employer. “Salting threatens business survival in America,” said King. “It’s common sense to allow business owners the right to decide if employees are there to help their business or to destroy it. Unions were established with the intent to protect employees so they could work- not to protect workers who don’t want to work.” King serves on the House Small Business Committee. The Truth in Employment Act of 2005 has seven original co-sponsors, including Rep. Franks, Rep. McHenry, Rep. Norwood, Rep. Paul, Rep. Sessions, Rep. Dave Weldon and Rep. Wicker.
04.22.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— Urged by Iowa Congressman Steve King, the U.S. House of Representatives last night passed long-anticipated comprehensive energy policy. The Energy Policy Act of 2005, H.R. 6, is aimed to decrease U.S. dependence on foreign oil, increase use of domestic reliable energy sources ethanol and bio-diesel and increase the exploration for additional energy sources in order to meet the needs for the country’s energy consumption. Currently, the U.S. relies on foreign sources for more than 61% of its energy needs. It is projected in five years 75% of the nation’s energy supply will come from foreign entities and much of it from unstable regions of the world. “We can’t wait a minute longer for a real energy policy,” said King. “This energy bill will help us take ownership of our own energy security and have the opportunities to find our own reliable energy sources to meet our energy consumption needs now and in the future.” An important part of H.R. 6 designed to utilize more domestic energy sources is the five billion gallon Renewable Fuels Standard. Last week King co-sponsored additional legislation in the House that would raise that standard to eight billion gallons. The Fuels Security Act of 2005 creates a Renewable Fuels Standard to increase use to at least eight billion gallons of renewable fuel by 2012. King expects the Fuels Security Act to be considered when the House and Senate go to Conference over this week’s overall Energy Policy Act. “Iowa is not only a consumer of energy, but a producer of energy. The Fifth District of Iowa is an energy export center, exporting ethanol and bio-diesel all across this nation. This bill includes a substantial Renewable Fuels Standard that will be good for our energy independence while securing rural economies,” added King. Domestic renewable fuels production has increased dramatically over recent years; Western Iowa lays claim to six operating ethanol plants, four ethanol plants under development, two operating bio-diesel plants and one under development. Currently the U.S. has over 100 ethanol and bio-diesel plants with the capacity to produce more than 3.7 billion gallons of renewable fuels for transportation fuels. In addition, H.R. 6 paves the way for the U.S. to find other means of domestic supplies of oil and natural gas, including exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). “The Corn Belt is being held hostage to high gasoline and natural gas prices. Farmers utilize diesel and gasoline to operate their equipment and transport their product and have had to tighten their belts as prices have increased. There is no other option than to find reliable, U.S. sources of oil and natural gas,” said King. King serves on the House Agriculture Committee and is a founder and co-chair of the House Ag Energy Users Caucus.
03.31.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement regarding the passing of Terri Schiavo: “I was saddened to learn of Terri’s death. My heart goes out to her family and all those who worked so hard to save her life. Our legal system should have saved her, but instead, ordered that she be killed by thirst and starvation. Our judicial system today has lost the respect of the American people who expect their judges to be just, not hard-hearted. Their legalities overruled our humanity. In an extraordinary session, Congress passed a law that should have given Terri a new trial, with de novo review of her case. This meant that her case would be given in-depth consideration by a federal court to ensure that her rights as a profoundly disabled person were not violated. Given that a thorough and unbiased review would take weeks for the court to hear the evidence, the directive from Congress was for the court to order that Terri’s food and water would be restored, so that she would not die before her Constitutional rights to due process were exhausted. However, the judge ruled against her case with only a few hours of consideration and without hearing the necessary evidence. In doing so he sentenced Terri to a painful death and also sounded the death knell for the rule of law in America. As a member of the Judiciary Committee, I will not allow a federal judge to ignore federal law without consequence. We must rein in the runaway judiciary and hold judges to their oath to uphold the Constitution and laws of the United States. If a judge refuses to follow the law, he is no longer just and impartial and must be removed from office. Not all prayers are answered as we wish. On behalf of the Fifth District and on behalf of Terri herself, I will work tirelessly to rebuild a culture of life and a recommitment to our Constitution. Though Terri has passed, her spirit will forever serve as a beacon for those who side with life.”
03.18.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— As gas prices hit an all-time high across the nation and in Iowa, U.S. Congressman Steve King today commended the U.S. Senate vote to pave the way for an eventual vote on energy exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). This week the Senate defeated an amendment that would block a provision in the fiscal year 2006 budget resolution that could allow for a vote to begin oil and gas drilling in ANWR. King has called the potential opening of Arctic drilling to ANWR a responsible move for the country: “This is a giant first step to something we have needed to do for more than 20 years,” said King. “It’s the country’s responsibility to be in control of its own energy supply and look for additional energy sources for its people.” “We can’t continue to allow gas prices to skyrocket at this pace, and continue to rely on foreign oil,” added King.
03.17.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— Today U.S. Congressman Steve King called upon the U.S. Senate to act swiftly to save the life of Terri Schiavo, who is slated to die under order of a Florida court. With the support of King, late last night the House passed The Protection of Incapacitated Persons Act of 2005, a last-minute injunction to protect Terri Schiavo from starving to death and protect incapacitated people from being killed when they can’t defend themselves. The bill would allow Schiavo and other incapacitated people to have their cases removed to federal court when all State remedies have been exhausted. The federal court case would be heard anew, independent from any state findings. After 15 years of legal battles between Schiavo’s parents and her estranged husband, a Florida district court has ordered that all nutrition and hydration to Schiavo be removed tomorrow. Appeals so far have all failed. The Florida state legislature is also working on last-minute bills to save Schiavo. “It’s time we defend the rights of those who can’t defend themselves, and can’t object to being starved to death,” said King. “Under the 14th Amendment to the Constitution, every human is guaranteed equal rights to protect their lives, and unfortunately, the Florida courts have set a dangerous precedent and decided our most vulnerable people don’t deserve this right.”
03.10.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Iowa Congressman Steve King today received the “Spirit of Enterprise” Award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for his strong support of economic growth. The U.S. Chamber gives this award to members of Congress for supporting pro-business efforts, including tax reform, trade and legal reform. This is the 17th year the Chamber has given this award. “It’s our duty to support those who create jobs and contribute to the economic growth of America,” said King. “The best way government can do that is by fostering an environment that is rich in opportunities for business growth and then get out of the way.” “It is critical to have members of Congress fighting for American business and their employees at this time of economic expansion and opportunity,” said Thomas J. Donohue, Chamber President and CEO. “Steve King is a leader who has voted time and again to create jobs, improve our domestic security, and promote economic expansion.”
03.02.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King today testified to the U.S. House of Representatives Small Business Committee on behalf of the fight for affordable health care for America’s small business owners and their employees. The Committee held a hearing to find ways to reduce the costs of health care for small businesses. About 60 percent of America’s 43 million uninsured are small business owners and their employees. “The structure of the current health care industry does not allow many small business owners and their employees access to affordable health insurance,” said King. “As a result, uninsured figures continue to rise as the cost of insurance continues to skyrocket, pricing most small businesses out of the marketplace.” In order to attract and retain the best employees, small businesses need the ability to offer affordable health care to employees. Small businesses create two out of every three jobs in the U.S. King recently introduced the Health Insurance Affordability Act of 2005, aimed at making health insurance more affordable for middle and low-income Americans and small businesses. The legislation would allow small business owners, employees and individuals to deduct the Health Savings Account (HSA) premium on their individual federal tax returns. Currently, corporations who insure employees with group health plans are allowed to deduct premium payments. “Small business is the backbone of Iowa’s economy, and they should have the same ability as large corporations to provide benefits, attract and retain employees,” added King. King, a member of the House Small Business Committee, owned and operated a small construction business for over 28 years. Small businesses comprise 97 percent of Iowa’s business.
03.02.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Congressman Steve King has introduced legislation to make it easier for American immigrants to fully realize the benefits of American opportunities. The English Language Unity Act of 2005 would establish English as the official language of the United States. The bill would require the federal government to conduct business in English, but would not put restrictions on languages spoken or the on the private sector. With 57 original co-sponsors, the bill has broad bi-partisan support. There are over 6,000 languages spoken throughout the world, and in the United States there are at least 28 different dominant languages -- those spoken by at least 100,000 people. The English Language Unity Act helps immigrants by encouraging them to learn English to fully integrate into American society. “English is the language of opportunity in America,” said King. “Learning English opens doors to better jobs and opportunities, which America was built upon. The only way to fully learn about American culture, and what makes America truly unique, is through our common bond of the English language.” Almost 12 million Americans are linguistically isolated, according to the U.S. Census. In addition, immigrants who are not proficient in English earn an average of 17% less than English- proficient immigrants with similar backgrounds, experience and education. The gap grows wider with the opportunities English-proficient immigrants realize while moving up the economic ladder. “I couldn’t have gotten this far in school and my work experience if I didn’t get the English immersion to the extent that I did,” said Gloria Fung, an immigrant from Hong Kong, who while attending George Mason University, is studying for pharmaceutical school. “I know my opportunities and experiences will be very different than my parents, who haven’t fully learned English.” In addition, attempting to comply with multilingual mandates that contribute to language isolation costs the federal government billions of dollars annually. Currently, under Executive Order 13166 by former President Clinton, all federal government entities should provide every person documents and services in languages other than English. E.O. 13166 also mandates any private entities receiving any federal funds, including private businesses working with federal contracts and doctors accepting Medicare reimbursements, to do the same. Last year, a Zogby International Poll found that 82% of Americans favor making English the official language of the U.S. An earlier 2001 nationwide Gallup poll found 96% of American believe in the importance of immigrants living in the U.S. to learn English. In addition, twenty-seven states already have established English as the official language of the state. In 1996 the House of Representatives passed the Emerson English Language Empowerment Act, in a bipartisan vote, which would have made English the official language of the U.S. Government. The Senate failed to act on the bill.
02.22.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—In a ceremony at the Pentagon, Congressman Steve King joined Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs Thomas F. Hall to present members from the “Keepers of the Flame”, the Family Readiness Group for Company A, 1st Battalion, 168th Infantry (Air Assault), Iowa National Guard, the 2004 Reserve Family Readiness Award for the best family readiness program in America for the Army National Guard. The Defense Department distributed seven awards, one award for the best family support unit in each branch of the military for outstanding family readiness. “Keepers of the Flame” Co-Chairs Deb Davis and Julie Klink flew to Washington to accept the award. “The sacrifice for this country’s freedom is not only given with full hearts by our troops, but by millions of family members,” said King. “We stand here stronger because of sacrifice, rather than weaker, and we will stand by all of you. I could not be more grateful for the contribution you all make." Hall addressed the critical role of the families in U.S. military operations. "It's not just those who are mobilized, but those who are doing the support day in and day out that we don't always see that help make this program so wonderful," said Hall. Iowa has some 1,600 National Guard men and women and 950 Army Reservists deployed. Currently, over 178,000 U.S. Guardsmen and reservists are mobilized, and since Sept. 11, 2001, more than 470,000 have been mobilized. For Photos of the Award Ceremony, please contact Summer Stitz at 202-225-4426 or This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it "> ' ); document.write( addy75990 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> summer.stitz@mail.house.gov ' ); //--> This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it ' ); //-->
02.18.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— As President Bush signed the Class Action Reform Bill into law, Congressman Steve King today expressed his support to reform lawsuit abuse. “Lawsuit abuse has reached a critical height in our country. The same spilled coffee we used to wipe off our laps now garners million-dollar verdicts and showing personal responsibility and restraint has squandered, allowing people to sue fast food restaurants for hindering their ability to refuse fatty food.” “Working with Congress and the President I will make sure those who are truly harmed get what they deserve, and not trial lawyers who want to get rich quick. When our companies pay millions of dollars in damages in lawsuit abuse, consumers are the ones who feel it in their pocketbooks through rising prices,” said King. The House passed Senator Grassley’s Class Action Reform Bill this week.
02.14.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa CONGRESSMAN KING RECEIVES MANUFACTURING EXCELLENCE AWARD FROM NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS SIOUX CITY – The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) has named Iowa Congressman Steve King for its “Manufacturing Excellence” award. Speaking in Sioux City to a group of local manufacturers and NAM officials, King pledged his commitment to helping business owners by beating back the heavy hand of regulatory agencies. “American workers and businesses are among the most productive and innovative in the world. It’s our job as lawmakers to find ways that make doing business in the U.S. more attractive, to keep innovation and technology here and feed long-term growth,” said King. “We need manufacturers to help improve the American economy, innovation in business and create jobs for Americans. I often think the best thing government can do for business is get out of their way.” King recently co-sponsored the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act (H.R. 682), to better protect small business from burdensome federal regulation. King serves on the Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform and Oversight of the House Small Business Committee. For Photo of Congressman King accepting award, please contact Summer Stitz at 202-225-4426 or This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it " href="mailto: This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it "> ' ); document.write( addy10020 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> summer.stitz@mail.house.gov ' ); //--> This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it ' ); //-->
02.11.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement following House passage of the Real ID Act. This measure would implement much-needed driver’s license reforms, close asylum loopholes, enhance border security, and strengthen deportation laws. “The Real ID Act is key to finally closing the loopholes in our national security that have remained open for too long. Drivers’ licenses have become de facto national identification cards, allowing people to move freely within the country, obtain other forms of identification, rent apartments, board planes and otherwise blend into society.” “We don’t need to reward illegal aliens who have broken our laws to enter our country, and have the intent to break our laws while they’re here, by handing them a government identification.” “The House acted swiftly and strongly to pass these common sense measures that would make it easier for the government to enforce laws to hunt down terrorists, and make it harder for a tragic event like 9/11 to happen again.” King is an original cosponsor of the Real ID Act. The Real ID Act will boost U.S. border security by:
02.09.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Iowa Congressman Steve King today introduced legislation to stop the federal government from subsidizing recreational sex drugs through Medicare. The Medicare Prescription Drug Sensibility Act ensures resources will be protected for Medicare recipients with true live-saving prescription needs. Erectile dysfunction drugs, such as Viagra, Cialis and Levitra, have a yearly $1.3 billion market, and average $8 to $10 per pill. Beginning January 1, 2006, performance-enhancing drugs will be covered by Medicare, when the prescription drug benefit in the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 takes effect. As the Medicare-recipient population is projected to hit 61 million by 2020, it is expected there will be a considerable demand for drugs to treat cancer, heart disease and other serious medical conditions. “The thought of Medicare wasting vital resources on performance enhancing drugs is unconscionable, especially at a time when the focus should be on providing life-saving medication for truly needy seniors,” said King. “Seniors should never be denied life-saving drugs at the cost of providing non-essential drugs for others.” For example, the money spent by the federal government to purchase one year of erectile dysfunction drugs for one individual could also pay for the necessary cholesterol-lowering medication for another person for a full year, heart attack treatment and high blood-pressure medication for one person that year, or diabetes medication for three people that year. In December, King led a group of Congressional Members in a letter urging the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to exclude erectile dysfunction drugs from the list of drugs covered by Medicare. “When Congress created the Medicare system, to help our older Americans pay for necessary medication, I doubt they ever thought it would end up subsidizing recreational drugs. American taxpayers don’t need to pay for recreational sex while millions of seniors on Medicare need to use those resources for life-saving medications,” added King. There are eleven co-sponsors of the Medicare Prescription Drug Sensibility Act, including Republican Study Committee Chair, Rep. Mike Pence, Rep. Jim Moran, Rep. Gil Gutknecht, and Rep. Dennis Kucinich.
02.02.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—As W-2s arrive in mailboxes this week, U.S. Congressman Steve King has introduced a resolution to repeal the 16th Amendment to the Constitution, which gives Congress the authority to collect income taxes. H.J. Res. 16 would eliminate the IRS and the means for the government to collect income taxes. “The IRS is an out-of-date, trillion-dollar-a-year drag on our economy,” said King. “Instead of continuing to band-aid our complicated, leaking tax system year after year, we can choose a permanent solution and finally rid Americans of the fat leech they feed their paychecks to.” King has been a long-time supporter of the FairTax, a national sales tax placed on goods and services, which would replace the income tax. H.J. Res. 16 must be approved by two-thirds of both the House and Senate, and then sent to the states, where three-fourths must ratify the amendment. For information on the FairTax, visit www.fairtax.org
02.02.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Iowa Congressman Steve King tonight issued the following statement in reaction to the President’s State of the Union Address: “The President has the delicate and significant task of balancing immediate and long-term U.S. foreign and domestic policy goals. Right now, the country is in a unique position to achieve those lofty long-term goals, including assisting the spread of freedom to protect our own security and reforming our tax and social security systems. I look forward to taking up these issues immediately and working with the President and with Congress to pave the way for the best future for America.”
01.31.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement on Iraq’s successful Election Day: “The world just witnessed the most important day in history since the fall of the Berlin Wall. Much to the disappointment of the insurgents, Iraq’s first free Election Day in over 50 years was successful. It sent a powerful message to every terrorist that self-determination, liberty and the thirst for freedom will conquer the threats of those who want to impose their culture of death. Most importantly, the elections are an endorsement of the principles of freedom outlined in the Bush Doctrine. The Iraqi people put themselves in harms way to voice their support for the most fundamental right of liberty, the right to vote. Marked with the ink that made them obvious targets, grandmothers, grandfathers, mothers and fathers took their whole families to the polls to participate in the historic vote.”
01.27.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Iowa Congressman Steve King is co-sponsoring a crucial bill that would eliminate many loopholes in the county’s domestic security laws, including those that allowed the September 11th highjackers to abuse the system and carry out their attacks. The Real ID Act includes the provisions dropped from last month’s hotly contested National Security Intelligence Reform Act of 2004. King voted against the act at the end of the 108th Congress because he was concerned that it didn’t address major problems in U.S. intelligence gathering, and it did not contain these provisions. The original bill passed with promises made to King and House Judiciary Chairman Sensenbrenner on legislation at the beginning of the new Congress that would address those weaknesses in the system. The Real ID Act requires states to abide by federal standards when issuing drivers’ licenses and state identification cards. “Drivers’ licenses have become de facto federal ID cards -- they allow people to blend in, move around freely inside the country, rent apartments, go to work and board planes,” said King. “We must make sure that the people we’re issuing government ID cards to are here legally and do not intend to harm Americans.” In addition, the Real ID Act allows the deportation of aliens who conduct terrorism-related activities. The bill makes the standards for those living in our country the same as those the government uses to keeping potentially dangerous aliens from entering the country. “It’s outrageous that we’ll try to keep people out of the country on grounds of terrorism risk, but the minute they sneak in, we can’t deport them,” added King. “Closing those loopholes is common sense. It’s been three years and we still haven’t passed laws that would prevent those 19 highjackers from doing what they did”. Under the Real ID Bill: ? Driver’s license applicants must prove a lawful presence in the U.S. ? Temporary drivers’ licenses would expire at the same time temporary worker VISAs expire ? Driver’s license applicants must undergo rigorous proof of identity process ? The U.S. asylum system would be less prone to abuse by terrorists ? Aliens who participate in terrorism-related activities would be deported ? The San Diego border fence would be quickly completed, and one of the U.S. corridors with the heaviest illegal entry traffic would be secured For Broadcast Quality Sound Bites of Congressman King on the Real ID Bill, contact Summer Stitz at 202-225-4426 or This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it "> ' ); document.write( addy981 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> summer.stitz@mail.house.gov ' ); //--> This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it ' ); //-->
01.26.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Congressman Steve King today joined colleagues to co-sponsor a resolution honoring the career and philanthropic contributions of Johnny Carson in the U.S. House of Representatives. In a memorial speech to the House chamber, King declared Carson “Iowa’s favorite son.” Carson, born in Corning, in southwestern Iowa, died Sunday of complications with emphysema. He was 79. He continued to make generous donations to the area and supported arts and performance in the rural communities. “Johnny Carson never forgot his Iowa roots,” said King. “His generosity through the John W. Carson Foundation will long be remembered in Iowa. No comic has been able to duplicate his quick wit and comfortable feel that he projected into living rooms across America every night.” “Johnny Carson was a small-town country boy who took his charm and ease to entertain the rest of the world. He will be missed,” added King.
01.26.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Iowa Congressman Steve King today issued the following statement regarding the Senate confirmation of Dr. Condoleezza Rice for Secretary of State. “The Democrats, going above and beyond predictable partisan pooh-poohing during a confirmation hearing, used Dr. Rice as a punching bag for their disagreements with the Bush Administration and sought to only weaken the next American foreign ambassador.” “State Secretary-Nominee Rice will be an outstanding emissary of freedom to the rest of the world. She understands how critical it is to help other nations gain their freedom to sustain our own, and she has the vision to execute the principles of the Bush Doctrine to ensure America’s place in the world and the security of this country for our children, grandchildren and their grandchildren.”
01.25.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—To mark the 32nd Annual March for Life rally on the National Mall this week, Iowa Congressman Steve King addressed the crowd of pro-life activists from across the nation, promising to end the tragedy of abortion and to fight for more alternatives for healthy women and children. After the march, King invited the 300 visiting Iowans who participated into the Capital to warm up and congregate. King, who sits on the House Judiciary Committee, has been a member of the pro-life movement for 28 years. “These judges come with their extra constitutional decisions and stretch the right to privacy to prevent the baby that comes within an inch from filling his own lungs with air and pleading for his own mercy,” said King. “We will put an end to this barbaric practice and those judges that rule against the will of the people.” “It’s great to see so many people dedicated to fighting the battle of our lives. With your support, we will continue to do whatever we can in Congress to prove women deserve better than abortion and continue to stand up for the lives of the unborn.” “Now you know why we’ve got some hope, we’ve got some strong voices there,” said Nellie Gray, executive director of the March for Life, responding to King’s speech.
01.22.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Council Bluffs, IA.—U.S. Congressmen Steve King (IA-05), Lee Terry (NE-02) and Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today toured proposed locations for a new Missouri River bridge and discussed their commitment to improve transportation access for the region. For over a decade, residents and officials have studied improvements to the connections across the Missouri River from U.S. 75 to I-29. Currently, there is no existing roadway between U.S. 75 and I-29 that meets regional transportation needs and allows a free flow of traffic. A new four-lane bridge will be erected a few minutes south of the Bellevue bridge to meet current needs, accommodate planned growth in the Omaha metropolitan area and aid commercial access between the two states. The current two-lane Bellevue bridge will remain for pedestrian vehicle access across the river. In addition, the trio pledged their commitment to see the current replacement project for the dilapidated Plattsmouth bridge to completion. “I’m grateful for the interest that my colleagues have shown in these transportation projects which are of great importance to the region,” said Fortenberry. The Congressmen toured proposed sites for the new bridge and discussed economic development opportunities the new bridge will bring to the area, which includes the southern Omaha metropolitan area, eastern Sarpy County and Bellevue in Nebraska and western Mills County in Iowa. "I'm proud to have worked, and will keep working, with my colleagues for federal funding for this project, which is extremely important for the economic health and growth of our area. Commuters across this nation are sitting longer and longer in traffic snarls on their everyday drives, and billions of gallons of gas are wasted each year due to congestion,” said Terry. “And no industry feels this more than the transportation industry, the backbone of our economy. The reauthorization of the Highway Bill is a key priority. Projects like the Missouri River bridges are critical to the health of our national economy." King said the U.S. 34 proposed bridge site in Mills County, also known as the “Southern Sarpy County Alternative”, which is preferred by residents and would include the expansion of Highway 34 into four lanes and across the border, would open the region’s businesses to the rest of the country. “Expanding Highway 34 and improving the Plattsmouth bridge to create new, faster, and more convenient gateways for commerce is important to advance economic development for the entire region,” said King. “When roads are expanded, people, business and jobs follow. The reauthorization of the Transportation Equity Act of the 21st Century will provide the opportunity to identify these bridges as significant projects for both Iowa and Nebraska.” This week, the Iowa Department of Transportation (IDOT) held meetings requesting public comment on the proposed sites for the new bridge. Another proposed site for the bridge is south of Offutt Air Force Base.
01.11.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Rep. Steve King (R-IA) filed his second bill in the 109th Congress, showing his commitment to Iowa’s small business owners. The Health Insurance Affordability Act of 2005 (H.R. 37) aims to make health insurance more affordable for middle and low-income Americans and small businesses. King’s legislation would make the premiums for the high-deductible plans that accompany Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) tax deductible. HSAs, created by the Medicare Modernization Act in the 108th Congress, allow Americans to make tax-deductible contributions to build equity and assume personal control of their health care, instead of making expensive monthly premium payments. Because premiums for the HSA high-deductible plan are considerably less expensive than traditional monthly premiums, they are an option for uninsured Americans who can’t afford high premium payments. Currently, corporations who insure employees with group health plans are allowed to deduct premium payments. King’s legislation would allow small business owners, employees and individuals to deduct the HSA premium on their individual federal tax returns. “It’s time to build on the benefits of HSAs and make sure they’re an affordable option for individuals and the small business owner,” said King. “Small business is important to Iowa’s economy, and those who take the risk to open small businesses should have the same ability as large corporations to provide benefits, attract and retain employees.” King serves on the U.S. House Small Business Committee.
01.11.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Dunlap, IA.— U.S. Congressman Steve King toured the Dunlap Livestock Auction recently, discussing the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) National Animal Identification Program (USAIP) with livestock owners from the surrounding area. King got a first-hand look at the movement of animals through the livestock auction in order to see the logistical implications of a national animal identification program. The USDA is establishing a livestock traceability system that would provide the fastest possible way to pinpoint the origin of contaminated cattle if a diseased animal were found in the country. “The system would act like an insurance policy for cattlemen, enabling the industry the best way to zero in on diseased animals,” said King. “There’s a lot of work to be done to implement livestock traceability, but a workable animal ID system is important to beef producers.” King said he would continue to work with the House Agriculture Committee, which he is a member of, to make sure cattlemen’s confidentiality is protected in the traceability system. “Ideally, a separate, non-governmental board would be created to administer the data in a centralized database, and the database could only be used by USDA for their needs,” added King.
01.06.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—As Congressional Democrats attempt to question the validity of Ohio’s voting systems, Rep. Steve King (R-IA) today introduced the Know Your Vote Counts Act of 2005, to protect the integrity of American votes. The legislation would require voting systems to print a paper record for each ballot, allowing voters to verify their votes for accuracy before the ballots are cast. Under current law, precincts may print ballots to verify votes only after polls have closed, leaving an opening for computer error or deliberate fraud. This bill would also allow for the possibility of a recount, should a state determine one is necessary. “Without a paper trail, a true recount is impossible,” said King. “Electronic voting systems were intended to increase voter confidence, but it’s decreased their confidence. This legislation requires a printed receipt at the time a ballot is cast. All Americans must know their votes count.” King introduced the Know Your Vote Counts Act last year, which gained 37 Republican co-sponsors in the House and no Democrat co-sponsors. “It’s funny that Democrats seem very concerned today about the integrity of electronic voting systems. However, when I introduced the legislation that would remedy that very problem last year, not one of them signed onto it. I’m reintroducing this legislation today so we can assure voters that their participation in the American political process is honest and worthwhile. I look forward to the Democrats making good on their rhetoric and co-sponsoring this reform,” added King.
01.04.2005	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—Demonstrating dedication to Iowa’s rural economy, Rep. Steve King (IA-05) today filed his first legislation of the 109th Congress. The bill would give more small ethanol producers in our nation a tax credit and expand the tax credit to biodiesel producers. By federal law, small ethanol producers that produce under 30 million gallons per year are eligible for a ten-cent-per-gallon tax credit up to 15 million gallons of production annually. In the 108th Congress, a provision introduced by King and passed into law as part of the American Jobs Creation Act in October 2004, extended the small ethanol producer tax credit to members of ethanol cooperatives. Under the original law, the small ethanol producers that could take advantage of the tax credit are limited to those that produce under 30 million gallons. The bill introduced today would expand the number of ethanol producers that can take the tax credit to those that produce up to 60 million gallons annually. The credit is capped at $1.5 million per year per producer. “We need to add value as close to the corn stalk and soybean stubble as many times as we can,” said King. “Adding value to the commodities we have producing for years will strengthen our rural economy, and the wealth flows from our farms to our town and cities.” Most new ethanol plants in the Midwest are poised to produce at least 40 million gallons of ethanol a year. The bill modernizes the tax credit by changing the definition of small ethanol producer to 60 million gallons annually. In addition, today’s legislation expands the tax credit to biodiesel producers. “Extending the tax credit to biodiesel producers boosts biodiesel production. This advances our rural economies and our nation’s energy security,” added King. Western Iowa lays claim to six operating ethanol plants, four ethanol plants under development, two operating biodiesel plants and one under development. King sits on the U.S. House Committee on Agriculture.
12.20.2004	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.—“In four years, Secretary Rumsfeld has transformed the entire outdated and conventional armed forces program to a modern day force required to fight contemporary terrorism. When one eliminates those seeking the presidency from the ranks of critics, the list of Rumsfeld critics gets very short, indeed.” “My recommendation to the American people is to take all criticism with a grain of salt and look at what has been accomplished in four short years.” “All criticism from leading public officials should be delivered behind closed doors. Public posturing and positioning only encourages insurgents and discourages our troops.”
12.12.2004	Representative Steve King 5th Congressional District of Iowa Washington, D.C.— Congressman Steve King (IA-05) has been chosen to lead a prominent conservative Republican forum on Capitol Hill during the 109th Congress. King will serve as chairman of the Conservative Opportunity Society, a 22-year-old organization that provided the common ground on which conservative Republican House members planned the revolution that ultimately captured majority control of the House in 1994. King will join the ranks of former speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich, who along with Republican "young Turk" conservatives, envisioned a forum for conservative House members to discuss and debate issues facing the country and develop legislative responses and tactics to lead Republicans out of decades of minority status. Years later, the "Contract With America" emerged as the watchword for the successful 1994 campaign that installed a GOP majority in the House for the first time in 40 years. "The Conservative Opportunity Society is the core of the new face of American conservatism," Congressman King said. "The recent election just shows us how important traditional American conservative values are to this country, and this historical and important group of lawmakers will continue to lead the modern conservative movement.” King represents the Fifth Congressional District of Iowa. In January, he will begin his second term in the U.S. House. Since his election to Congress in 2002, King has emerged as a leading conservative. He is a frequent guest of nationally syndicated news and talk shows. COS hosts leading thinkers and opinion shapers such as Sean Hannity, Robert Novak and Karl Rove. COS members meet each Wednesday morning when Congress is in session.
