01.23.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today gave the following statement on border security needs. “I gave an interview yesterday in which I said that we should give the President the $5.7 billion he requested for the wall, with important conditions attached. Those conditions are what are critically important, and where we need to have a discussion. “This wall is clearly needed in some places, and in some places it’s clearly not. My point is and has always been that if we’re going to do this we’ve got to put conditions on a deal to make sure that the wall goes in those places where it’s needed, and not in the places that call for more targeted and smarter resources. To determine that, the people who are experts on what local jurisdictions along the border need—local CBP officials, mayors, county officials and governors—must have input on the effectiveness of a wall, and the needs of their individual communities. “It’s also critically important that the government does not use eminent domain to take land for wall construction, and that land clearance and construction complies with local, state and federal environmental regulations. “The partisan gridlock has gone on for too long, and the shutdown is hurting Minnesotans as it draws on. I have heard from hundreds of constituents who want to see the government reopened with increased border security. I support spending money on border security where it’s most effective and makes the most sense. In my mind, that’s a combination of a physical barrier in some areas, increased resources and personnel in others, and an overall increase in technology enhancements border-wide. This ongoing stalemate is clearly hurting our constituents, and it is time we start working on measures that address these concerns." “Bipartisan compromise is the only option for a long-term solution.”
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.) and Congressman Don Young (R-Alaska) are leading a bipartisan letter urging President Trump and Congressional Leadership to come to an expeditious agreement to reopen the government while securing the border. Young and Peterson are currently adding co-signers to the letter, which illustrates a shared willingness to work across the aisle for common sense legislation. The letter is supported by an equal number of Democrats and Republicans. “The partisan gridlock has gone on for too long, and the shutdown is hurting Minnesotans as it draws on,” Peterson said. “I have heard from hundreds of constituents who want to see the government reopened with increased border security. This ongoing stalemate is clearly hurting our constituents, and it is time we start working on measures that address these concerns. Bipartisan compromise is the only option for a long-term solution.” “I support securing our nation’s borders, but in the long-run holding up the appropriations process does untold harm. I have experienced more than a dozen shutdowns and quite frankly, they aren’t the answer. It’s Congress’ Constitutional responsibility to fund the government and the American public sent us to Washington to keep the government running. We must fulfill that duty,” said Congressman Don Young. “This letter encourages good faith, bipartisan negotiations that will bring an end to this partial shutdown.” Congressman Peterson’s office has continued to hear directly from constituents of the 7th District of Minnesota regarding the negative impacts from this government shutdown. These include: Delayed Small Business Administration loan applications due to agency closures. Halted licensing for new businesses by the FDA and the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, which is preventing businesses from opening. This is hurting small businesses like the Fergus Brewing Company, which cannot brew its products. Farmers are unable to sign-up for Market Facilitation Payments and are unable to receive certifications of eligible production. MFP signup would have ended on January 15, 2019 but will be extended as many days as the offices are closed by the shutdown. Closed Farm Service Agency offices, which are preventing farmers from cashing or depositing checks from grain and livestock sales. This stops our producers from paying their bills. Delayed discussions on availability of operating loans for 2019. Shut down applications for Farm Storage Facility Loan Program hurt farmers availability to store grain and reduces their flexibility to market products at higher prices. Halted implementation of new farm bill commodity title provisions likely delaying sign-up for the 2019 crop year. Reduced IRS staffing, which limits new guidance on tax changes in 2018 tax bill. Potential delayed processing of tax refunds due to limited IRS staffing. Uncertainty in future SNAP benefits should the shutdown continue past February. Air traffic controllers are concerned about the shutdown’s effect on pay, training schedules, and the number of controllers able to take shifts. Furloughed Homeland Security staff leaving American soil less safe. The negative economic effects of the shutdown continue adding up. The White House Council of Economic Advisers recently doubled the shutdown’s impact on first quarter GDP growth, which will be decreased 2%. Peterson has supported House measures to reopen the federal government and provide increased border security. He also supports building a wall where it’s most appropriate in addition to the use of other border crossing technologies. The draft letter reads: Dear President Trump and Speaker Pelosi, Minority Leader McCarthy, Leader McConnell, Minority Leader Schumer: For the good of our country, we call on you to end the brinkmanship and commit to legislation that would immediately reopen the government. We represent constituents who support strengthened border security, including expanded physical barriers where appropriate. The government shutdown is not moving us closer to a more secure border and is in fact making our country less safe. Effective border security will take years to establish and requires bipartisan buy-in to be lasting. We stand ready to work with you in good faith on legislation to secure the border and call for the immediate end to this wasteful government shutdown. Sincerely,
01.18.2019	WASHINGTON (January 18, 2019) – House Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson of Minnesota on Friday welcomed the new and returning members of the Committee for the 116th Congress. “This is a strong roster for the Ag Committee and I’m looking forward to tackling the challenges that our farmers and ranchers, rural communities and working families face,” said Peterson. “We have a good cross-section of the diversity of crops grown in this country and the regions that grow them, as well as great representation of the variety of issues of jurisdiction on the Committee.” Democratic Members of the Committee for the 116th Congress are, by seniority: Collin Peterson, Minnesota David Scott, Georgia Jim Costa, California Marcia Fudge, Ohio Jim McGovern, Massachusetts Filemon Vela, Texas Stacey Plaskett, U.S. Virgin Islands Alma Adams, North Carolina Abigail Spanberger, Virginia Jahana Hayes, Connecticut Antonio Delgado, New York T.J. Cox, California Angie Craig, Minnesota Anthony Brindisi, New York Jeff Van Drew, New Jersey Josh Harder, California Kim Schrier, Washington Chellie Pingree, Maine Cheri Bustos, Illinois Sean Patrick Maloney, New York Salud Carbajal, California Al Lawson, Jr., Florida Tom O’Halleran, Arizona Jimmy Panetta, California Ann Kirkpatrick, Arizona Cindy Axne, Iowa
01.18.2019	Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-MN-7) will serve on the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs in the 116th Congress, a position he previously held from 1995 to 2001. Having served in the North Dakota National Guard from 1963 to 1969, Peterson brings personal military experience and perspective to the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs. “As a veteran, I look forward to returning to the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs and working with Chairman Mark Takano and Ranking Member Phil Roe,” said Peterson. “Congress needs to explore options to improve healthcare and support services for our nation’s fast-growing veteran population.” One of Peterson’s priorities on the committee is to better recognize servicemembers. In keeping with that commitment, Peterson recently visited Missouri’s Fort Leonard Wood to greet the men and women training where he once did. Peterson’s Congressional office is also a partner with the Vietnam War 50th Commemoration Program, which allows him to present Special Vietnam Veteran Lapel Pins to eligible veterans at Veterans Day ceremonies, veterans home visits, and Honor Flight fly-ins in Washington, DC. Peterson greeting a veteran on an Honor Flight to Washington, DC Vietnam Lapel Pin Another of Peterson’s priorities is to secure federal funding matches for proposed 72-bed veterans homes in Bemidji and Montevideo, Minnesota. Local communities and the state legislature have already raised significant funds for both homes. The state will submit formal funding requests to the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA), and Peterson will actively support each federal match application as they are considered by the agency. Finally, Peterson plans to focus the committee’s attention on toxic wounds of war such as exposure to Agent Orange and burn pits. During a visit to the Fergus Falls Veterans Home, Peterson met a Vietnam veteran who suffers from Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance (MGUS), a blood disorder and precursor to cancer. Although this veteran was exposed to Agent Orange, he continues to be denied medical coverage for this disease because the VA does not currently recognize a link between MGUS and exposure to Agent Orange. In response, Peterson led a letter with former Ranking Member Tim Walz and 27 Members of Congress to urge the Office of Management and Budget to add MGUS, bladder cancer, hypothyroidism, Parkinson-like tremors, and hypertension to the presumptive list of diseases associated with Agent Orange exposure. Due to existing Democratic Caucus limitations on committee assignments, Peterson persuaded House Leadership to grant him a waiver to serve on the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs in addition to his role as Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee.
01.17.2019	USDA announced today that the department will call FSA loan officers and some county office employees back to work for three days to cash checks and do other activities related to USDA’s ability to issue IRS-1099s. It is a partial, temporary reopening only. The list of offices open in Minnesota is below. Employees will be in those county offices on Thursday, January 17, and Friday, January 18, as well as Tuesday, January 22. Monday is the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday. These FSA employees will deposit checks and undertake the “incidental duty” of co-signing two-party checks received last year, and check the mail for checks received. Employees will process loan pay outs and advances on existing loans. USDA Under Secretary Bill Northey indicated that there will be no late charges accrued, nor delinquencies acted on while USDA is shut down. Employees will also check on bankruptcy filings and update lien filings. Producers can drop off applications for Market Facilitation Program (MFP) payments or other programs as well as new loan applications, but they will not be processed at this point. USDA also indicated to congressional Agriculture Committee leadership that they are continuing to work with the Office of Management and Budget regarding other actions or programs that are currently shut down, such as direct and guaranteed operating loan approvals and applications or work on implementing the new farm bill dairy provisions. The following Minnesota FSA offices will be open: Becker County Service Center 809 Eighth St SE Detroit Lakes, MN 56501 (218) 847-9392 Beltrami County Service Center 3217 Bemidji Ave N Bemidji, MN 56601 (218) 751-1942 Blue Earth County Service Center 1160 Victory Drive Mankato, MN 56001 (507) 345-4651 Clay County Service Center 1615 30th Ave S Moorhead, MN 56560 (218) 233-7773 Fillmore County Service Center 413 Farmers St Preston, MN 55965 (507) 765-3892 Kanabec County Service Center 2008 Mahogany St Mora, MN 55051 (320) 679-2080 Kittson County Service Center 410 5th St S Hallock, MN 56728 (218) 843-2692 Lyon County Service Center 1424 E. College Dr Marshall, MN 56258 (507) 537-1401 Marshall County Service Center 105 S Division St Warren, MN 56762 (218) 745-4251 McLeod County Service Center 1103 Gruenhagen Dr Glencoe, MN 55336 (320) 864-5178 Morrison County Service Center 16776 Heron Rd Little Falls, MN 56345 (320) 632-5477 Nobles County Service Center 1567 McMillan St Worthington, MN 56187 (507) 376-6194 Olmsted County Service Center 1485 Industrial Drive NW Rochester, MN 55901 (507) 282-6153 Pennington Co. Service Center 201 Sherwood Ave Thief River Falls, MN 56701 (218) 681-1612 Redwood County Service Center 1241 E. Bridge St Redwood Falls, MN 56283 (507) 637-3551 Roseau County Service Center 502 7th St SW Roseau, MN 56751 (218) 463-2452 Stearns County Service Center 110 2nd St S Waite Park, MN 56387 (320) 251-7800 Swift County Service Center 1430 Utah Ave Benson, MN 56215 (320) 842-7201 West Ottertail Co. Service Center 506 Western Ave N Fergus Falls, MN 56537 (218) 739-4694 West Polk County Service Center 528 Strander Ave Crookston, MN 56716 (218) 281-2809
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON (January 15, 2019) – House Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson of Minnesota and Ranking Member Mike Conaway of Texas introduced a resolution today honoring the 100th anniversary of the American Farm Bureau Federation. “Farm Bureau has a long history of advocacy for American farmers, ranchers and rural communities, and should be proud of the work they’ve done on their behalf,” said Peterson. “AFBF understands the challenge farmers face in producing more, using less, and communicating successfully with consumers, and I wish them success in the years to come.” “Fresh off the completion of the 2018 Farm Bill, it’s fitting that we pay tribute to an organization that was so instrumental in helping Congress craft sound agricultural policy and get it to the president for his signature,” said Conaway. “Farm Bureau serves as a model for successful grassroots advocacy on behalf of rural America, and I want to congratulate them on their centennial.” Chairman Peterson and Ranking Member Conaway will invite their colleagues in the House to join them in sponsoring the resolution. Farm Bureau wraps up its annual convention this week in New Orleans.
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON (January 10, 2019) – Chairman Collin Peterson announced today the promotion of Kellie Adesina to Chief Counsel for the House Agriculture Committee. Adesina had served previously as Senior Counsel on the Committee since 2016. “Kellie brings such valuable experience and insight to this role. She sees the work we do on the Committee and its impact on the people we serve from all angles,” Peterson said. “She is a strong attorney and a great leader and I’m excited for what's to come.” Prior to joining the House Agriculture Committee staff, Adesina was Senior Counselor at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. She also served as Legislative Director for Congresswoman Marcia Fudge of Ohio, Legislative Counsel for Congresswoman Judy Chu of California, and in various roles for Senator Robert Menendez of her home state of New Jersey. Adesina holds a Juris Doctor from The Ohio State University Moritz School of Law, and a bachelor's in political science from Bethune-Cookman University.
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON (January 4, 2019) – Following a vote by his Democratic colleagues Friday, Congressman Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota’s Seventh Congressional District was elected Chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture. This is the second time Peterson has served as the committee’s chairman, first serving from 2007 to 2011. Peterson, who had previously served since 2011 as the committee’s Ranking Member, issued the following statement upon his election: “I am honored to receive the support of my colleagues to serve as Chairman of the Agriculture Committee in the 116th Congress. I look forward to continuing the important work of the committee to address the many challenges facing our producers, our rural communities, and our working families across the country. “There is no shortage of work to be done. There is a new farm bill to implement, a growing economic storm in farm country to address, and the ongoing harm of a trade war to alleviate, not to mention the range of unforeseen issues that will test the mettle of the people we’re here to serve. “Our job will be to work together with Republicans to provide responsible oversight of the administration, and pragmatic solutions for all points in the farm and food supply chain. I look forward to the challenge and I’m excited to get to work.”
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON (December 20, 2018) – Following President Donald Trump’s signing of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson released the following statement: “I am happy to see President Trump sign the farm bill into law today, especially considering the challenges our farmers, ranchers and rural communities face. The law contains programs that will help provide much-needed certainty to producers. The law now provides expanded, affordable risk management options for dairy farmers, as well as permanent, mandatory funding for priorities like the Local Food & Farmers Market Promotion Program, Value-Added Producer Grants, the BFRDP Program, Organic Research, and the Section 2501 Outreach Program. I look forward to working with USDA in the coming Congress to ensure these programs are implemented as quickly as possible and to their full effectiveness.”
12.17.2018	Last week, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) announced that livestock and insect haulers are indefinitely exempt from the requirements of the electronic logging device (ELD) mandate. According to the agency’s website, drivers transporting livestock and insects can continue to use paper logs to document their hours of service “until further notice.” FMCSA also noted that effected drivers do not need to carry documentation about the exemption. “This decision helps reduce the lingering uncertainty about which types of haulers need to use ELDs,” said Congressman Peterson. “More importantly, it also helps ensure that agricultural products arrive to market in a safe and efficient manner.” "The care and safety of our animals is our top priority. Minnesota Farm Bureau appreciates the clarity that FMCSA's announcement provides for farmers and ranchers while transporting them from one location to another in the safest manner possible," said Minnesota Farm Bureau (MFBF) President Kevin Paap. "Thank you to Congressman Peterson for his leadership in addressing this issue." In the 115th Congress, Congressman Peterson sent letters to FMCSA calling for increased clarity and flexibility around the ELD mandate as it relates to livestock and insect haulers. He also introduced the bipartisan Agricultural Business Electronic Logging Device Exemption Act (H.R. 5949) to completely exempt agricultural businesses from the ELD mandate.
12.13.2018	This week, Representative Peterson agreed to co-sponsor H.R. 5856, the Good Samaritan Charitable Physicians Service Act, to provide tax deductions to certified healthcare providers in exchange for pro-bono services to Medicaid and CHIP beneficiaries. “The Good Samaritan Charitable Physicians Service Act has the potential to save billions of dollars in federal healthcare expenditures,” said Peterson. “There are certified doctors ready and willing to serve a greater number of patients under this legislation.” “The Good Samaritan Charitable Physicians Service Act will reduce healthcare spending, increase healthcare options for those most in need, and create better health outcomes for the most vulnerable populations in our communities,” said Ron Nordin, the MN-07 Delegate for the Association of Mature American Citizens (AMAC). “AMAC applauds Congressman Peterson's co-sponsorship of H.R. 5856, and will continue to work with him to make meaningful healthcare reforms that will benefit each and every American." Eligible services under H.R. 5856 largely include primary care and preventive services, and tax deductions are based on the value of services performed.
12.13.2018	This week, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted in favor of an order to help address the budget shortfall in the High-Cost Universal Service Fund (USF), which is also known as the Connect America Fund. This action, which came at the request of Representative Peterson and his colleagues, will provide hundreds of millions of dollars to small, rural operators every year as they work to develop broadband in rural communities. In October 2017 and May 2018, Representative Peterson led bipartisan letters strongly urging the FCC to increase funding to the High-Cost USF. The letters emphasized the disadvantage that millions of rural Americans without dependable voice and internet services. “This vote was an important step toward providing rural communities with comparable broadband services for comparable rates,” said Peterson. “I thank the FCC for its decision and will continue to advocate for future investment in the USF.” “Thanks to the leadership of Representative Collin Peterson and other key members of Congress, the USF reforms adopted today by the FCC should provide much-needed support to help small, rural broadband providers in Minnesota as they work to build out and sustain robust broadband for the benefit of their customers,” said Shirley Bloomfield, CEO of NTCA – The Rural Broadband Association. “This decision will help ensure that rural America has access to quality broadband for years to come. This reform will provide needed stability to rural broadband providers throughout the country, particularly in Minnesota, as we continue to build border to border broadband in our state,” said Brent Christensen, President and CEO of the Minnesota Telecom Alliance. “This happened in no small part to the leadership of Congressman Collin Peterson. His ongoing support of rural broadband continues to make a difference to the people of Minnesota. We are fortunate to have Congressman Peterson fighting for us in Washington.”
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON (December 12, 2018) – House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson released the following statement today following passage of the House floor of H.R.2, the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018: “I am very happy to see my colleagues pass the 2018 Farm Bill. As I said in my floor speech, rural America is facing so many challenges and this bill goes a long way toward providing needed certainty to farmers and ranchers. In particular, I am proud of the improvement it makes for our dairy farmers. The bill will provide expanded, affordable coverage options and more flexibility for dairy farmers. It also provides permanent mandatory funding for several of the programs that first got mandatory funding in the 2008 farm bill, when I was chairman. These include the Local Food & Farmers Market Promotion Program, Value-Added Producer Grants, the BFRDP Program, Organic Research, and the Section 2501 Outreach Program. I encourage President Trump to sign the farm bill into law quickly.”
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON (December 12, 2018) – House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson delivered the following statement today during consideration on the House floor of H.R.2, the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018: [As prepared for delivery] “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Conference Report on H.R. 2, the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018. “The conference report we are considering today would reauthorize farm bill programs for five years. The 2014 farm bill expired on September 30th, and while the road to get here had a few bumps along the way, I’m glad that we were finally able to reach an agreement. Now it’s time to get this done. “During a time when rural America is facing a downturn in the farm economy and a trade war that’s taking its toll on crop, livestock and dairy producers from coast to coast, this bill will provide needed certainty to farmers and ranchers. “The bill continues a variety of commodity, conservation, trade, nutrition, credit, rural development, research, energy and specialty crop programs. It also provides permanent mandatory funding for several of the programs that first got mandatory funding in the 2008 farm bill, when I was chairman. These include the Local Food & Farmers Market Promotion Program, Value-Added Producer Grants, the BFRDP Program, Organic Research, and the Section 2501 Outreach Program. “One of the most important pieces in this bill, however, is the improvement it makes for our dairy farmers. The economic downturn in farm country is hitting dairy hardest of all. In my home state of Minnesota and in neighboring Wisconsin, an average of two dairies are going out of business every day. The provisions in this bill will provide expanded, affordable coverage options and more flexibility for dairy farmers. I am proud to put my name on this program. “We are also providing $300 million in mandatory funding for animal disease programs at a time when our U.S. livestock industry is facing continued danger from unchecked threats. That money will go to increasing our ability to prevent and respond to animal pests and diseases that harm our animals and threaten the viability of our livestock operations. “There are folks who have liked to have seen different directions taken on several issues in this bill, but this is a conference report, where the House and Senate figure out where the common ground is. “I am proud of the work we did together on this bill, and I am very appreciative of the hard work of the Majority and its staff, as well as my staff, under the direction of Anne Simmons and Troy Phillips. “I would encourage my colleagues to support this effort, and I look forward to continuing the discussion on many of these issues in the next congress.”
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Agriculture Committee Chairmen Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., and Rep. K. Michael Conaway, R-Texas, and Ranking Members Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., and Rep. Collin Peterson, D-Minn., today released the text of the bipartisan, bicameral 2018 Farm Bill conference report. “The 2018 Farm Bill is our opportunity to make the American food and agriculture systems work more efficiently. I’m pleased to say we have done just that in this conference report,” said Chairman Roberts. “We started this journey nearly two years ago. Since then, the Senate Agriculture Committee has held dozens of hearings, listened to more than 90 witnesses, and received thousands of public comments. As promised, this farm bill provides much needed certainty and predictability for all producers – of all crops – across all regions across the country. I thank my counterparts in the Senate and House for coming to – and staying at – the table to reach a bipartisan, bicameral agreement for rural America.” “America’s farmers and ranchers are weathering the fifth year of severe recession, so passing a farm bill this week that strengthens the farm safety net is vitally important,” said Chairman Conaway. “I am grateful to the President, Secretary Perdue and my leadership for standing fast for the hard-working farm and ranch families that clothe and feed us. I also appreciate the members of the conference committee for bringing this process one step closer to completion.” “By working across the aisle, we overcame many differences to deliver a strong, bipartisan farm bill for our farmers, families, and rural communities,” said Ranking Member Stabenow. “The 2018 Farm Bill is a good bill for our farmers and everyone who eats. Working together, we continued to expand the diversity of our agricultural economy, maintained a strong food and farm safety net, created new opportunities in our small towns and rural communities, and made significant investments in land and water conservation. Now is not the time to rest on our laurels – it’s time to get the bill across the finish line as soon as possible. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.” “This bill is a strong start to addressing the issues our producers are facing right now, particularly our dairy farmers,” said Ranking Member Peterson. “The bill’s new provisions will offer more flexible coverage for lower cost when dairy farmers need it most, and provide producers more tools to manage their risk. It also invests $300 million in the prevention and response for animal pests and disease. More broadly, the bill invests in research, outreach to beginning & underserved producers, local and organic food production, bioenergy, and access to new markets. It also addresses broadband, farm stress and mental health issues, and the opioid epidemic in rural areas. It’s the product of strong bipartisan work in both the House and the Senate, and it’s something I’m proud to encourage folks to vote for.” Click here to read the text of the report. The Farm Bill Conference Committee held a public hearing on Sept. 5. Agriculture Committee leaders announced a deal on Nov. 29. The conference report was signed by the Senate and House Farm Bill conferees and will be considered with a vote in both chambers. Press Contacts: Sarah Little (Roberts): 202-236-8678 Rachel Millard (Conaway): 202-225-2171 Jess McCarron (Stabenow): 202-224-1437 Patrick Delaney (Peterson): 202-225-1564
12.10.2018	WASHINGTON (December 9, 2018) – Following the passing of former Secretary of Agriculture Robert Bergland on Sunday, House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson released the following statement: “I am so sorry to hear of Bob Bergland’s passing. Bob served the Seventh District of Minnesota exceptionally before taking his farmer’s experience and work ethic to USDA to make sure that crop insurance, rural development, conservation and research programs worked better for farmers and ranchers across the country. I was fortunate to have visited with him back in August and am proud to continue in his footsteps in serving the residents of the 7th District. I send my condolences to Helen and the entire Bergland family.”
12.10.2018	The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) recently announced that they will reduce funding for Minnesota’s reinsurance program by approximately $100 million for the 2019 plan year WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Tina Smith, and Representatives Tom Emmer, Collin Peterson, Rick Nolan and Betty McCollum urged the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to reinstate full funding for Minnesota’s reinsurance program. Although CMS indicated that Minnesota should expect $183,930,230 for plan year 2019, the state received a letter on November 30, 2018 stating that Minnesota would receive only $84,757,861 –which would be about $100 million less than the anticipated amount. Minnesota’s reinsurance program stabilizes the state’s insurance marketplace to ensure that more Minnesotans have access to affordable, quality health care. “A sudden notification that CMS would be reducing federal funding by roughly $100 million just one month before the 2019 plan year has created significant uncertainty for our state, and to date CMS has offered no explanation for why this dramatic reduction in funding has occurred,” the members wrote. “We strongly urge CMS to reconsider its decision and provide a level of pass-through funding for Minnesota that more closely matches the figure provided in the original 2017 agreement.” The full text of the letter can be found below: Dear Administrator Verma and Secretary Mnuchin: We write to express our serious concerns in response to the recent decision from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to reduce funding for Minnesota’s reinsurance program by approximately $100 million for the 2019 plan year. On September 22, 2017, CMS approved Minnesota’s 1332 State Innovation Waiver to implement a reinsurance program and outlined the funding that Minnesota could expect to receive for plan years 2019 through 2022. Although CMS indicated that Minnesota should expect $183,930,230 for plan year 2019, the state received a letter on November 30 of 2018 stating that Minnesota would receive only $84,757,861 – which would be about $100 million less than the anticipated amount. Minnesota’s 1332 waiver was an agreement with the federal government to stabilize the state’s insurance marketplace to ensure that more Minnesotans would have access to affordable, quality health care. A sudden notification that CMS would be reducing federal funding by roughly $100 million just one month before the 2019 plan year has created significant uncertainty for our state, and to date CMS has offered no explanation for why this dramatic reduction in funding has occurred. We strongly urge CMS to reconsider its decision and provide a level of pass-through funding for Minnesota that more closely matches the figure provided in the original 2017 agreement. We also respectfully request responses to the following questions: What were the methods and assumptions used when calculating the pass-through funds for plan year 2019? Please also explain the $100 million discrepancy from the estimated amount for plan year 2019. Was the effectiveness of Minnesota’s reinsurance program in reducing premiums a factor for a reduction in pass-through funds, and if so, to what extent? What steps can Minnesota take to prepare for future plan years to avoid the uncertainty that stems from pass-through funding that is inconsistent with the estimated figures outlined in the 1332 waiver approval letter? Thank you for your attention to this serious and urgent matter. Sincerely,
12.07.2018	Today, U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) announced over $35 million for Water and Wastewater Infrastructure improvements in rural Minnesota communities. The funding comes from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant Program. “Upgrading and investing in local water systems creates jobs while keeping communities healthy,” Peterson said. “These funds are critical to meeting our rural communities’ water treatment needs.” The upgrades will improve the drinking water, storm water drainage, and waste water systems in Redwood, Mahnomen, Douglas, Cottonwood, Big Stone, and Lyon counties. Details for funding below: Tracy, MN will receive a loan of $8,399,000 and a grant of $4,458,000 Clinton, MN will receive a loan of $4,595,000 and a grant of $2,369,000 Red Rock Rural Water will receive a loan of $1,400,000 Farwell-Kensington Sanitary District will receive a loan of $325,000 and a grant of $1,095,000 Mahnomen, MN will receive a loan of $11,919,000 Revere, MN will receive a loan of $161,000 and a grant of $402,000 Congressman Peterson is a strong advocate for the Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant Program which serves small rural communities. In 2017 he led the effort to protect the program which was slated to be eliminated in President Trump’s Budget Request.
12.03.2018	Today, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a final rule under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) program and set the required amount of biofuels that must be blended in the nation’s fuel supply for 2019 and biomass-based biodiesel for 2020. Although the Renewable Volume Obligations (RVO) in today’s rule are a slight improvement from the proposed rule, Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.) sees a missed opportunity to reallocate gallons lost due to the so-called hardship waivers. Congressman Peterson serves as one of the Co-chairs of the Congressional Biofuels Caucus. “Rural communities depend on a strong RFS to boost commodity prices, and I am disappointed that this rule didn’t address the billions of gallons lost due to the small refinery waivers. The small increases in the volume obligations don’t compensate for the damage done by these waivers,” Peterson said. Although conventional ethanol is maintained at the 15 billion gallon target set by Congress and advanced biofuel saw an uptick to 4.92 billion gallons, EPA’s decision to undermine the RFS by granting controversial hardship waivers resulted in 2.25 billion gallons of biofuels lost in the marketplace. The agency could have addressed this problem today by reallocating those gallons, but chose not to act. These waivers hurt ethanol producers and create more uncertainty for farmers already struggling with low commodity prices.
11.30.2018	Following calls from the office of Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.) and Roseau Mayor Jeff Pelowski, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) announced that northbound gates will remain open at Roseau and Pinecreek during Canada Border Security Agency service hours. “I’m glad this situation was worked out, but we still have the underlying issue of reducing U.S. service hours in Lancaster and Roseau. I will continue efforts to keep these ports open longer so U.S. and Canadian travelers won’t have to rush and beat the clock each and every night,” Peterson said. The announcement followed a few nights of confusion where travelers discovered locked gates for northbound traffic heading into Canada, even though CBSA was open and ready to process incoming vehicles.
11.29.2018	Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.) has called on the Administration to provide the resources needed to adequately staff the Ports of Entry along the U.S.-Canada border. Travelers heading into Canada were surprised Tuesday night when they discovered U.S. ports at Roseau and Lancaster were locked at 8 P.M., forcing vehicles to divert more than an hour and reroute through Pembina, ND or Warroad, MN Ports of Entry. “There are solutions available to keep our northern ports open longer, but the Administration’s decision to divert significant resources from our northern border to accommodate a massive presence at our southern border is hurting our rural communities,” said Congressman Peterson. “I understand the need to keep our borders secure, but it shouldn’t come at the expense of rural Minnesota communities. Local businesses in Roseau and Lancaster depend on Canadian traffic to spend money in their towns, and further border access restrictions only makes the problem worse.” Roseau Mayor Jeff Pelowski said, “The Canadian authorities delayed their decision to reduce hours after hearing from the local community, yet our border enforcement agency is completely ignoring our needs and moving forward with one of the most ridiculous government decisions I have seen in my 20 years as an elected public official.” Border agencies on both sides are causing confusion to American and Canadian travelers. The Canadian Border Services Agency (CBSA) announced a reversal in their decision to match U.S. Custom and Border Protection’s (CBP) reduction in hours, and instead will keep their corresponding ports open until midnight. In the last year alone, CBP reduced hours of service and staff at the Lancaster and Roseau Ports of Entry due to the reallocation of personnel and budgeting priorities for the southern border. As the nation’s overall border protection policies are being debated, Congressman Peterson urges CBP and CBSA to work out a written agreement to rectify border access problems in Roseau and Lancaster.
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson spoke this morning on the House Floor in support of H.R. 6784, the Manage Our Wolves Act. “I rise in support of the bill. I have to say in my 28 years in this body I have never seen so much nonsense, misinformation, and propaganda put out on a bill as being put out on this one,” Peterson says in the start of his speech. “We followed the Endangered Species Act. We did what was said, the scientists said we recovered and they delisted the wolves. These were scientists that did it, it wasn’t any politician. You had a group out there, these extreme environmentalists and others who have captured our party, went to a judge in Washington D.C. that has no idea what’s going on at all and convinced that judge that the wolves had not recovered because they had not been reestablished all the way to Des Moines, Iowa.” One of the first bills introduced in the 115th Congress was Congressman Peterson’s bill to delist gray wolves from federal protections in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan and Wyoming, and return their management to state agencies. His bill, the Gray Wolf State Management Act, passed earlier this year through the House Committee on Natural Resources on a bipartisan vote. Section 2 of today’s legislation also would delist gray wolves in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Wyoming. The underlying bill passed 196-180 on a bipartisan vote, and now awaits Senate action. Congressman Peterson’s full floor speech can be watched and listened by clicking this link on C-SPAN.org.
11.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson praised the efforts of 19 agriculture and sportsmen’s organizations that collectively sent a letter to urge Speaker Paul Ryan and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy to place H.R. 424, the Gray Wolf State Management Act, on the House floor for a vote before the year’s end. “The issue of removing wolves from the endangered species list is long overdue,” Peterson said. “Cattlemen and farmers have not been able to protect their livestock due to a political court decision made in Washington, DC that overturned a science-based decision made under the Obama Administration demonstrating wolf recovery in our area. Since then, ranchers lost calves during calving season, witnessed decreasing livestock numbers, and even had their pets killed. I am thankful for the coalition support and hope to get my bill passed by the end of the year.” Last year, the Gray Wolf State Management Act passed through the House Committee on Natural Resources on a bipartisan vote, and is simply awaiting Speaker Paul Ryan’s decision to place the bill on the House floor calendar. Similar language has already proven its ability to pass the House several times over the past few years. The following organizations make up the coalition and signed the letter supporting H.R. 424: American Farm Bureau Federation American Sheep Industry Association Michigan Cattlemen’s Association Michigan Farm Bureau Minnesota Deer Hunters Association Minnesota Farm Bureau Minnesota Farmers Union Minnesota Lamb and Wool Producers Minnesota State Cattlemen’s Association Minnesota Turkey Growers National Cattlemen’s Beef Association National Farmers Union Public Lands Council Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation Upper Peninsula Sportsmen’s Alliance Upper Peninsula Trappers Association United States Cattlemen’s Association Wisconsin Cattlemen’s Association Wisconsin Farm Bureau Federation You can read the letter by clicking here.
11.02.2018	DETROIT LAKES – Congressman Collin Peterson issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Minnesota Farm Service Agency office announcement today that it would resume payments for Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) contracts pending revisions and corrections: “I want to thank Secretary Perdue for his quick action on this important issue. I appreciate the working relationship that I have with USDA, and I’m happy that we were able to resolve this situation for landowners and producers in Minnesota as well as surrounding states. This is why I encourage folks who are having issues with Federal programs or see a situation that needs remedying to contact their congressional offices. Unless we’re aware of an issue, we can’t help get it fixed. In this case, it was necessary to help remind USDA folks in D.C. that landowners were facing a November 15th deadline to pay their property taxes and the hold-up on getting CRP payments out the door was adding unnecessary stress to the situation.”
11.01.2018	DETROIT LAKES – Congressman Collin Peterson released the following statement Thursday calling on the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farm Service Agency headquarters to allow local FSA offices to make payments on Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) contracts where modifications are pending, as the agency did under similar circumstances in 2013. "The CRP payments that folks depend on to pay property taxes and other bills are being held up because FSA headquarters has shut down the ability to make minor contract modifications. There are more than 930 such cases across Minnesota. When I raised this issue in a conversation with Secretary Perdue last week, he promised me that it would be fixed. This is something USDA has the power to address, as it did in 2013, and it should do so immediately."
11.01.2018	Tuesday was clear and crisp in the Beltrami Island State Forest where I had the pleasure of joining members from the Fourtown-Grygla Sportsmans Club and the Roseau-Lake of the Woods Sportsmans Club, and DNR Commissioner Tom Landwehr to celebrate the official opening of the Dam 4 Trail Connection. This section of trail had been closed due to flooding in the past, and then became part of lands under the US Fish and Wildlife Service. After hearing from sportsmen about the need to reconnect the trails, I worked to facilitate a land exchange between the DNR and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) to connect the two State Forest roads. We had a wonderful time celebrating the official opening of the trail section with local clubs. After cutting the ribbon we gathered for lunch and rode the trail on both Polaris and Arctic Cat vehicles. It was a great day for all, and I am pleased we could find a resolution for the area sportsmen and women that use our natural resources in Minnesota. Creating trail access is important for the many sportsmen throughout the region. Snowmobiling and off-road riding are economic drivers in rural Minnesota, and we must insure local sportsmen have access to their local natural resources. In addition to riders from other parts of the State, the two sportsman’s clubs have over 400 local members all together. Congressman Collin Peterson speaks to the crowd. Congressman Collin Peterson visiting with members of the local sportsmen clubs. Cutting the ribbon - pictured from left to right: Jack Nelson and Myles Hogenson of the North Star Trail Alliance, Aaron Holthusenand, and Congressman Collin Peterson Congressman Collin Peterson and DNR Commissioner Tom Landwehr Post-ribbon cutting luncheon.
10.31.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) and U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Tina Smith (D-MN) are fighting to prevent Norman County families from having to purchase unnecessary flood insurance by ensuring access to accurate flood maps. In a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Minnesota lawmakers urged FEMA to delay issuing new preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) for the area until they have been updated to include the flood control projects currently underway. “FEMA has the responsibility to ensure their flood mapping is accurate and takes into account the important work our communities are doing to protect against flood damage,” the lawmakers said. “By failing to incorporate upcoming flood protection projects, FEMA is creating unnecessary burden for Minnesota families. Delaying new maps is a commonsense solution” “The Wild Rice Watershed District really appreciates the efforts of our legislators to help in this situation,” the Wild Rice Watershed District said. Halstad and Hendrum Mayors Lori DeLong and Curt Johannsen praised the lawmaker’s efforts. “Congressman Collin Peterson, Senator Amy Klobuchar, and Senator Tina Smith are true advocates for rural MN,” Mayor DeLong said. “Their support in asking FEMA to delay its Red River Valley Flood Plain mapping process will certainly have a positive impact for the City of Halstad. A FEMA decision to delay the mapping process will ensure our citizens are not subject to flood insurance requirements. The City of Halstad is currently in an active levee reconstruction project which is slated to be completed in the later of 2019 which will ensure FEMA recertification of the city levee system. With the delay of the mapping process and upon the completion of the levee reconstruction project, the City of Halstad can avoid any detrimental cost to its citizens. The City of Halstad truly appreciates the work and dedication of its United States Congress Representatives!” “The citizens of the community of Hendrum greatly appreciate and are thankful for the efforts of Senator Amy Klobuchar, Senator Tina Smith, and Congressman Collin Peterson in assisting us with working with FEMA,” Mayor Johannsen said. “Senator Klobuchar, Senator Smith, and Congressman Peterson have always been there when the City of Hendrum, as well as others in the State of Minnesota, needed them. It is assuring to know that our federal delegation listens and stands up for all its constituents in Minnesota. Thank-you Senator Klobuchar, Senator Smith, and Congressman Peterson!” The full text of the letter is below: Dear Administrator Long, On behalf of the City of Hendrum, the City of Halstad, and the Wild Rice Watershed District, we are requesting the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) delay issuing new preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) for Norman County, Minnesota. As you know, Hendrum and Halstad are nearing the completion of multiple Army Corps of Engineers flood control projects to protect their communities. However, the current preliminary maps as shown at the Consultation Coordination Officer meeting on May 21, 2018 do not include the significant progress both cities have made in their levee improvement projects. Moreover, these efforts are expected to be completed by the end of 2019, ensuring both cities meet FEMA levee accreditation standards and rendering the preliminary FIRM obsolete by the time they are made effective. Finalizing flood maps that FEMA knows will be immediately outdated is counterproductive to the goal of the program, which is to give residents the most accurate understanding of and protection against the flood risk for the area. We urge you to work with the communities of Hendrum and Halstad, the State of Minnesota, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to coordinate mapping efforts with the forthcoming flood control projects to ensure that the new finals maps for Norman County are comprehensive and accurate. We appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to your response.
10.30.2018	Representatives Collin Peterson (D-MN), Ted Yoho (R-FL), and Roger Marshall (R-KS) submitted a bipartisan letter to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) in support of a petition to waive livestock haulers from certain provisions of Hours of Service (HOS) rules. The petition, which was submitted by the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association (NCBA), Livestock Marketing Association (LMA), American Farm Bureau Federation (AFBF), American Beekeeping Federation (ABF), American Honey Producers Association (AHPA), and National Aquaculture Association (NAA), requests increased driving hours for livestock haulers in exchange for additional training designed by FMCSA. The letter was signed by 59 members of Congress from both sides of the aisle. “Current hours of service regulations do not accommodate the unique needs of livestock haulers,” said Congressman Peterson. “This petition will allow them to deliver agricultural products to market more effectively while maintaining their proven record of safety.” “The safe transportation of livestock is an essential part of feeding America,” said Congressman Yoho. “This petition would modify the current regulations so we protect the safety of both haulers and livestock in route to their final destination. I want to thank Congressman Peterson, Congressman Marshall, and all my colleagues who lead this bipartisan letter in support of the petition to provide relief for livestock haulers.” “Livestock haulers across the country have the difficult task of ensuring motorist safety while also tending to the health and welfare of the animals transported,” said Congressman Marshall. “I was proud to support this petition that works to address a livestock haulers unique tasks, while also maintaining their strong safety record.” “When livestock and other live animals are transported, it’s important to get them to their destination safely and without delay or disruption,” said Zippy Duvall, President of the American Farm Bureau Federation. “Safety for the driver and others on the road is a priority. That is why we are petitioning DOT to adopt modern fatigue-management practices that provide the same or greater level of safety while avoiding unintended and unnecessary stress on the animals entrusted to our care. We greatly appreciate Reps. Yoho, Peterson, Marshall and the other Members of Congress who wrote DOT in support of the petition.” “We’re very thankful to Congressmen Peterson, Yoho, Marshall, and others for helping lead the effort to bring some common sense and flexibility to the Hours of Service rules that govern livestock haulers,” said Kevin Kester, fifth-generation California rancher and President of the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association. “We hope that the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) sees the support of many Members of Congress from across the United States for this petition, and recognizes the need for flexibility. We look forward to continuing our work to deliver more flexibility for haulers while maintaining a very strong safety record for fellow highway travelers.” "Safety is our top priority. However, the current Hours of Service rules do not take into account the unique needs of our livestock haulers to prioritize necessary animal care by our farmers, ranchers and truck drivers,” said Kevin Paap, President of the Minnesota Farm Bureau. “We appreciate Representative Peterson's leadership in making sure these regulations have a common-sense approach that provide necessary flexibility while keeping safety top of mind." "Livestock, unlike general freight, cannot stay on the trailer during rest or downtime. The expansion of hours of service for livestock haulers is imperative to livestock health and wellbeing while being transported,” said Krist Wollum, President of the Minnesota State Cattlemen's Association. “Livestock haulers have an exemplary safety record and go through specialized training to help them to ensure the livestock they are hauling are cared for the entire route of the trip." “The members of the Livestock Marketing Association greatly appreciate the leadership of Representatives Yoho, Peterson, and Marshall,” said Tom Frey, President of the Livestock Marketing Association and owner of the Creston Livestock Auction of Creston, Iowa. “This bipartisan, cross-country showing of support of important changes to the livestock hauling regulatory framework demonstrates just how important flexibility for our haulers is.” “Fish and crawfish farmers ship live fish for sale as live seafood in restaurants or retail stores, bait fish for recreational fishing, game fish for stocking in private and public waters, live crawfish for crawfish boils, and other fish for a variety of uses all across the country,” said Jim Parsons, President of the National Aquaculture Association. “The trucks we use are specially equipped to maintain fish health and welfare and our drivers are trained and experienced to deliver live, healthy fish on-time. Our petition provides US aquaculture with the much needed additional driving time to negotiate country roads and highway reconstruction and the opportunity to prevent driver fatigue. We greatly appreciate the bipartisan leadership by Congressman Peterson, Congressman Yoho, and Congressman Marshall in supporting a petition that benefits our drivers, fish, customers and folks driving along with us on America’s highways and byways.” “The small but mighty beekeeping industry hauls managed honeybees clear across the country to pollinate crops like almonds, apples, pears and blueberries,” said Kelvin Adee, President of the American Honey Producers Association. “These bees are responsible for nearly $20 billion in American agricultural output annually. Without changes to the existing hours of services rules for bee haulers, our drivers would be forced to rest unnecessarily long periods of time while the sun is up and the bees are at risk of overheating and dying. We believe that the petition we submitted alongside other livestock interests strikes the critical balance between ensuring the health of our nation’s already imperiled managed bees and the safety of our roads. We applaud Representatives Peterson, Yoho, and Marshall for writing in support of this petition.” “As beekeepers, we are well aware of the importance of managed honey bees to our food source,” said Tim May, President of the American Beekeeping Federation. “Nearly one-third of the food we eat is pollinated by honey bees. Due to the increased demand for honey bee pollination, livestock haulers are transporting bees all across the country. Extending the HOS for livestock haulers gives bee haulers the added time needed to coordinate with the required daylight driving schedule. We at ABF understand that safety is always the number one priority and we commend the new safety requirements suggested for livestock haulers.” You can read the letter by clicking here.
10.18.2018	From left to right: Class President Noah Pankonin, Principal Phil Goetstouwers, and State Senator Bill Weber The U.S. Department of Education has selected Red Rock Central Secondary School in Lamberton as a 2018 National Blue Ribbon School. This prestigious distinction recognizes public and private elementary, middle, and high schools for their overall academic performance and progress in closing achievement gaps among students. “I am proud to celebrate this important achievement with Red Rock Central Secondary School,” said Congressman Collin Peterson. “It’s selection as a Blue Ribbon School is testament to the rewards of investing in student development and productive school environments.” Red Rock Central Secondary School is one of 349 schools selected by the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program this year, including 8 from Minnesota. Buffalo Lake‐Hector‐Stewart Elementary School, Canby Elementary School, and Fertile-Beltrami Elementary School are the other winners from the 7th District. Congressman Peterson is a consistent advocate for rural students and schools. He recently introduced the bipartisan Addressing Teacher Shortages Act (H.R. 7023) to establish a competitive grant program at the Department of Education through which school districts can apply for funding to recruit, retain, and support teachers. Much of this funding will be dedicated to rural school districts and high-need subject areas including agriculture education.
10.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Following the announcement today of year-round sales of fuel blends containing 15 percent ethanol, or E15, House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member and Congressional Biofuels Caucus Co-Chair Collin Peterson, D-Minn., welcomed the news and pushed for legislation to make progress on renewable fuels more permanent. “It’s about time,” said Peterson. “I’ve been a consistent advocate for year-round sales of E15, and I’m glad to see a step in the right direction. However, today’s action will likely get tied up in the courts, so passing legislation remains the most reliable avenue to finally getting this done.” Peterson founded the Congressional Biofuels Caucus to educate Congressional colleagues and work with the Executive Branch on the benefits of promoting American-grown biofuels. Since that time, Congressman Peterson and the Caucus pushed the Trump and Obama Administrations, met with Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue, and cosponsored legislation to require the year-round sale of E15. The Administration’s actions today will likely be challenged in court by the oil industry. Congressman Peterson remains hopeful that this decision will spark movement on E15 legislation already introduced in Congress. Allowing the sale of E15 year-round isn’t a mandate, but simply makes the fuel available during the summer months. Due to language in the law governing the Renewable Fuel Standard, E15 previously could not be sold between June 1 and September 15, after EPA did not grant E15 the same Reid Vapor Pressure waiver as E10. By leveling the regulatory playing field with year-round sales, retailers be able to offer this lower cost fuel option to consumers all year. “Year-round sales of E15 will provide a needed boost to the ethanol industry, and give corn farmers access to a broader segment of the domestic fuels market at a time when they are struggling with depressed commodity prices, adverse weather conditions, and an ongoing trade war,” said Peterson. “I’m also encouraged by the Administration’s efforts to bring more transparency to the Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs) market within the RFS. Clarity on both issues will help to provide more certainty for farmers and industry moving forward.”
10.04.2018	The Minnesota Department of Commerce recently announced final 2019 individual and small group health insurance rates. The rates, which determine how much consumers will pay for their health insurance across plans, mark the second year of stable or decreasing premiums in the individual market. According to the report released by state regulators, Blue Plus and Medica will offer plans in every county in the 7th District with the exception of Meeker, Kittson, Roseau, and Lake of the Woods Counties, where only Medica plans will be available. The average Blue Plus premium will decrease by 27.7% and the average Medica premium will decrease by 12.4%. The Minnesota Department of Commerce also adds that rates in 2019 are 20% lower than they would be without Minnesota’s reinsurance program, which Congressman Peterson organized federal support for in 2017. In the small group market, average premium changes range from a 2.37% decrease to an 11.93% increase across plans. The small group market has grown to 303,000 enrollees, which is 5.5% of all Minnesotans. “Although more needs to be done to lower the cost of health insurance, I am encouraged to see that most premiums will generally remain the same or go down in 2019,” said Peterson. “I am also happy that Minnesota’s reinsurance program, which I helped to approve, is helping to stabilize the individual market as it was designed to do.” As open enrollment approaches, enrollees can explore their options and learn about available tax credits on MNsure.org. This year, individuals earning up to $48,560 per year and families of four earning up to $100,400 per year may be eligible to save on their premiums. The 2019 open enrollment period begins on November 1, 2018 and ends on January 13, 2019.
10.02.2018	Congressman Collin C. Peterson is pleased to announce the opening of the Dam 4 Trail Connector, which connects Morehouse Road and Elkwood Road within the Beltrami Island State Forest. The North Star Trail Alliance, which is comprised of the Four Town-Grygla Sportsman’s Club (FTGSC) and the Roseau-Lake of the Woods Sportsman’s Club (RLWSC), sought to improve the North Star Trail by connecting the two existing roads via dead ends only a quarter of a mile apart. The trail is utilized by snowmobiles during the winter season and in the past was used by ATVs and off-road vehicles during the warmer months. However, flooding on the Roseau River in the mid-2000’s washed out the land crossing which created limited access for off-road vehicle traffic during the summer season. After hearing from sportsmen about the need to reconnect the trails, Congressman Peterson worked to facilitate a land exchange between the DNR and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) to connect the two State Forest roads. The DNR and FWS agreed to a parcel exchange and DNR Commissioner Tom Landwehr has signed off on the project as of last week. “Local sportsmen’s clubs have been an invaluable resource in getting this project across the finish line,” Peterson said. “I am grateful to work alongside local sportsmen, the DNR, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to expand access to public land and recreational opportunities for Minnesotans.” FTGSC and RLWSC Presidents Jack Nelson and Miles Hogenson, and ATV trail coordinator Tony Moe praised the opening of the trail connection. “The North Star Trail Alliance trail connection is complete and open for use. Thank you to Congressman Peterson and Staff for your efforts in negotiating the Land Exchange to make the Trail Connection possible. This will connect the north and the south trail systems and create a safer and far more desirable trail experience for Beltrami Island State Forest Trail Visitors.” In addition to riders from other parts of the State, the two sportsman’s clubs have over 400 local members all together. The trail connection is now open for all ATV and off-road traffic to vehicles under 1000 lbs.
10.02.2018	Representatives Collin Peterson (D-MN-07) and Alex Mooney (R-WV-02) introduced the bipartisan Addressing Teacher Shortages Act of 2018 to establish a competitive grant program at the Department of Education through which school districts can apply for funding to recruit, retain, and support teachers. Under the legislation, school districts can apply to fund numerous initiatives including teacher residency, mentorship, licensing, tuition assistance, and other professional development programs. The legislation also provides additional staffing resources at the Department of Education to help under-resourced districts apply for grants and formally recognizes teaching as a part of career and technical education. Grant funding would be distributed in the following way: 25% to address teacher shortages in rural areas. 25% to address teacher shortages in high-need subject areas (including but not limited to STEM, agriculture education, and special education). 25% to diversify a district’s teaching workforce. 5% to address shortages in Bureau of Indian Education schools. 20% at the discretion of the Secretary. *It is possible for school districts to qualify across multiple categories. “Many rural school districts struggle to adequately staff their schools,” said Congressman Peterson. “Particularly in growing fields like STEM and agricultural education, it is vital that our schools have the resources they need to prepare students as they enter the workforce.” “As I travel across West Virginia, I hear about the need for high quality career and technical education opportunities for young people,” said Congressman Mooney. “This legislation will help ensure rural communities have access to funding to attract and retain quality teachers.” “Teacher shortage has reached epidemic levels the past several years in Minnesota and nationwide as well,” said Minnesota Superintendent John Cselovski (Sleepy Eye Public Schools). “Finding qualified teacher candidates not just in special education but in all areas and all grade levels. It has been a daunting task to find quality faculty. I appreciate Representatives Peterson and Mooney for offering a solution for this educational crisis.” "The teacher shortage in rural school districts is truly a crisis," said Minnesota Superintendent Scott Monson (Marshall Public Schools). “As we've known for many years, hard-working, talented, knowledgeable, and caring teachers are the backbone of any successful school or school district and finding those type of people continues to be a huge challenge. This bipartisan legislation provides opportunities for addressing the shortage with funding to support ideas, best practices, and innovation. I believe it will lead to an increased pool of teacher candidates for school districts to choose from." The Addressing Teacher Shortages Act of 2018 is supported by the American Federation of Teachers, National Education Association, and Education Minnesota. Senator Smith (D-MN) introduced companion legislation in the Senate.
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON (October 1, 2018) – Following the announcement of a renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement this week, House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson of Minnesota issued the following statement: “I am pleased to see the NAFTA renegotiation take one step closer to a possible conclusion, and I look forward to reviewing the agreement in full as Congress takes up its passage. Dairy and poultry are huge concerns for me, and I am encouraged with the access and provisions it appears we’ve secured in this agreement. While this agreement does not end Canada’s supply management policies, this agreement includes provisions that will help dairy farmers in Minnesota and nationwide with less trade distorting exports during the current downturn in the farm economy. I hope the administration will use the momentum from this NAFTA deal to make progress in bringing the trade war with China to a productive end.”
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON – House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) and Ranking Member Collin Peterson (MN-7) made the following statement today after holding a roundtable with USTR Chief Agricultural Negotiator, Gregg Doud, and USDA Undersecretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs, Ted McKinney, to discuss the administration’s agricultural trade agenda: “We know the angst in farm country right now. Between low prices, droughts, flooding, hurricanes and the retaliatory tariffs of our trading partners – there is hurt in the heartland. We continue to work with the Administration as they make progress on NAFTA and other trade agreements, but we also recognize that the best thing Congress can do to aid farm country is to provide farmers and ranchers with the certainty and predictability of a five-year farm bill. On that front, we will continue our work until a new farm bill is complete.”
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON - Agriculture Committee Chairmen Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., and Rep. K. Michael Conaway, R-Texas, and Ranking Members Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., and Rep. Collin Peterson, D-Minn., today met and released the following statement on progress of the 2018 Farm Bill. “Each of us is still at the negotiating table, and we remain committed to working together on a Farm Bill. Our conversations are productive, and progress toward an agreement is taking shape. We are going to get this right.” The Farm Bill Conference Committee held a public hearing on Sept. 5. Agriculture Committee leaders have gathered on more than a dozen occasions and continue to meet regularly and often to reach agreement.
09.18.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Collin C. Peterson today led a letter with fellow Co-Chairs of the bipartisan Biofuels Caucus to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler in regards to the 2019 Renewable Volume Obligations (RVO) within the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). The letter strongly encourages the Administration to reduce federal regulations on ethanol instead of implementing policies that only work against farmers and slow the biofuels market down. “As co-chairs of the Congressional Biofuels Caucus, we understand how the ethanol industry creates jobs and boosts rural economies,” the lawmakers wrote. “Farmers and ethanol producers across rural America are struggling, and the EPA needs to be held accountable for making their problems worse by weakening the RFS.”
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson is pleased to announce that the United States Department of Transportation (USDOT) has awarded grants for regional airports across the Seventh District. “As a pilot I understand the importance of our rural airports, all of which improve options for transportation and commerce for their communities,” Peterson said. “The goal for any airport is flyer safety and these grants help them work towards that goal.” Through an application process, USDOT awards grants to any qualifying infrastructure project for communities across the United States. The cities of Bemidji, Detroit Lakes, Long Prairie, Thief River Falls, and Winsted have applied and have been awarded grants for infrastructure upgrades and improving safety operations. The individual awards are as follows: Bemidji Regional Airport Authority Commission will receive $1,714,916.00 to acquire an aircraft rescue and fire fighting vehicle, and to rehabilitate the apron. City of Detroit Lakes has been awarded $4,307,346.00 to construct a runway safety area at Wething Field. City of Long Prairie will receive $1,059,871.00 for the runway extension at Todd Field. Thief River Falls Regional Airport Authority is awarded $2,653,914.00 to reconstruct the apron and taxiway. City of Winsted has been awarded $1,435,797.00 for runway reconstruction at Winsted Municipal Airport. For more information please visit the USDOT website.
09.05.2018	House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin C. Peterson delivered the following opening statement at today’s public meeting of conferees on H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018: [As Prepared for Delivery] “Thank you Chairman Roberts, Chairman Conaway and Ranking Member Stabenow for the cooperative work that you and our staffs have done to get us to this point. “We have one goal: to get this farm bill done. Farmers are counting on it. We’ve all seen the statistics on the decline of the farm economy, on their struggles with regard to trade, the news of volatile weather, and the range of challenges they face. “It makes no sense—and it doesn’t benefit those farmers one bit—to relitigate how we got here. It doesn’t get us any closer to our goal. “We’re all here for the same reason: to deliver for the people who count on the programs within this bill. Those are farmers, they’re consumers, they’re people who care about renewable energy and research and supporting rural communities and conserving our natural resources. This bill tackles all of it and I’m eager to hear your ideas as we move along in this process. “But more than any one issue, I want a farm bill. I’m here to work and to get a conference report we can all sign, pass through our respective chambers and send to the president to be signed into law. I’ll remind our conferees that should be their goal as well. Nobody in this room is going to get everything he or she wants; this process is about compromise. “With that I yield the balance of my time, and suggest we get to work.”
08.28.2018	WASHINGTON - Representatives Collin Peterson (D-MN-07) and David Young (R-IA-3) have introduced the Ensuring Lasting Smiles Act, to address coverage denials for patients with congenital anomalies and birth defects. This bipartisan legislation will help these individuals afford costly reconstructive treatments for a range of conditions including cleft lip or palate, skeletal deformities, and dental defects. The Ensuring Lasting Smiles Act will require all group and individual health plans to cover medically necessary services, including dental procedures, to treat the symptoms of congenital anomalies. Although many states require insurers to provide this type of coverage, many health plans routinely and systematically deny claims under the pretense that they are cosmetic in nature. “There is nothing cosmetic about treatments which are necessary to perform normal bodily functions,” said Peterson. “Insurers should do what they can to help beneficiaries, particularly in cases where the healthy development of a child is at stake.” “Iowa parents expect and deserve proper health care and treatment for their children, and that means insurers must cover reconstructive surgeries necessary for children to live healthier lives,” said Young. “The Ensuring Lasting Smiles Act will help children grow to be healthier, more active, and have a better quality of life.” The Ensuring Lasting Smiles Act is supported by the American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons (AAOMS), American Society of Plastic Surgeons (ASPS), and National Foundation for Ectodermal Dysplasias (NFED). Senators Baldwin (D-WI) and Ernst (R-IA) have introduced the same legislation in the Senate.
08.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Agriculture Committee Chairmen Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., and Rep. K. Michael Conaway, R-Texas, and Ranking Members Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., and Rep. Collin Peterson, D-Minn., today announced a public meeting of the 2018 Farm Bill Conference Committee. “We are pleased to announce a meeting of the full Farm Bill Conference Committee,” Senate and House Agriculture Committee leaders said. “We are committed to working together on a Farm Bill that delivers certainty and predictability to our farmers and families as quickly as possible.” Date: Wednesday, September 5, 2018Time: 9:30 a.m.Place: 325 Russell Senate Office Building The Farm Bill Conference Committee is composed of 56 members, including nine Senators and 47 Representatives. ***IMPORTANT: Press bringing audio/video equipment need to check in with the Senate Radio-Television Gallery at radiotv.senate.gov or 202-224-6421. The hearing will be webcast live on ag.senate.gov.
08.17.2018	Seven counties in the Seventh Congressional District are now eligible for emergency haying and grazing on Conservation Reserve Program acres. Kittson, Lake of the Woods and Roseau counties were approved today for emergency haying and grazing. They join Cottonwood, Lyon, Murray and Yellow Medicine counties, as well as Jackson and Nobles counties in the First Congressional District, which were announced late last week. Emergency haying is available on general practice acres and State Acres for Wildlife Enhancement (SAFE)/CP 38 acres through August 31, and emergency grazing may continue on those same acres through September 30. Landowners and operators should confirm details and availability with their local FSA offices.
08.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson called on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to grant a special work permit in order for construction to begin on the Beltrami Island State Forest LUP lands trail connection and other public facilities projects in Grygla/Fourtown area. After hearing concerns from area sportsmen’s clubs, including the Fourtown Grygla Sportsmans Club, Congressman Peterson has spent months working with sportsmen and state and federal agencies on a plan to complete a section of trail that had previously been washed out due to flooding in the Roseau River. Completion of the trail connection was further complicated due to overlapping Federal and State management of these lands in the Beltrami Island State Forest. After months of negotiations, the project is finally moving forward following a land exchange deal between the Minnesota DNR and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. “Finalizing this trail connection will be a boon to the area sportsmen’s clubs, and would allow for the area’s natural resources to be properly utilized by those who are most invested in them and their care,” Peterson states in the letter. The Congressman’s letter can be read below: Director Tom MeliusMidwest Regional DirectorU.S. Fish and Wildlife Service5600 American Blvd. West, Ste. 990Bloomington, MN, 55437-1458 August 8th, 2018 Dear Director Melius, I am writing today to follow up on our on-going discussions regarding the finalization of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources/ U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service land exchange and the completion of the trail section in the Beltrami Island State Forest LUP lands. Finalizing this trail connection will be a boon to the area sportsmen’s clubs, and would allow for the area’s natural resources to be properly utilized by those who are most invested in them and their care. It is my understanding that DNR and FWS have agreed on the parcels and the process to move forward, including about 383 acres, which will be transferred to the state from LUP. As this process moves forward, I am requesting that FWS grant a special use permit to begin work on the trail connection, as well as the Winner Silo Toilet, which is also part of the deal under consideration, concurrent with the completion of the exchange. This will allow local Parks and Trails staff, as well as area sportsmen’s clubs, to begin work on the projects that have underpinned this agreement. I appreciate your understanding and continued work on this matter. Once completed, this project will be a great benefit to the many sportsmen and women in the region who care for and utilize our great natural resources we have in northern Minnesota. Sincerely,
08.09.2018	House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson welcomes the announcement of the Dairy Revenue Program, a new risk management product for our nation’s dairy producers approved through the Federal Crop Insurance Act process by USDA-RMA earlier today: "As I meet with farmers around my district, it is clear that times continue to be tough for the dairy industry. Our producers need more tools to manage their risk. Individual dairies have diverse risk management needs, and I’m glad to see this new and innovative revenue insurance product announced. I hope DRP is the first of many new insurance products for livestock since new opportunities with private insurers and the Risk Management Agency were opened earlier this year.” More on the program and other USDA Risk Management Agency dairy and livestock products can be found by clicking here.
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON (June 27, 2018) – In response to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s release this week of its proposed 2019 Renewable Volume Obligation levels for ethanol, biodiesel and other renewable fuels, House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin C. Peterson released the following statement, calling on EPA to address the larger issue of exempting oil refiners from their obligations under the Renewable Fuel Standard: “The damage inflicted on the biofuels industry by the EPA exempting major refineries from their RFS obligations far outweighs the minor volume increases in its proposed rule. Our corn and soybean farmers are fed up with EPA undermining the RFS, and the harm being done by the Administration’s trade war. Enough is enough.”
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Collin C. Peterson submitted the following Statement for the Record after Republican Leadership refused to consider his bipartisan amendment to H.R.6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act. The amendment would have restored the DEA's authority to carry out needed enforcement actions to combat the opioid epidemic. “Mr./Ms. Speaker, I rise today to express my disappointment that the House failed to consider H.R. 4079, the RESTORE Act of 2017, both this and last week. Further, Republican Leadership refused to allow debate or a vote on my bipartisan amendment to attach the legislation to H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act. “Two years ago, the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2015 passed unanimously in both the House and the Senate and was signed into law. Members were led to believe that the measure was non-controversial and would help patients secure pain medications. “Instead, a joint investigation by ‘60 Minutes’ and the Washington Post appears to confirm that the legislation has limited the DEA’s ability to suspend a pharmaceutical distributor’s license and shipments if they pose an imminent danger to public health and safety. “The RESTORE Act of 2017 would fully repeal the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2015 and restore the DEA's authority to carry out needed enforcement actions to combat the opioid epidemic. “Although many of the bills recently passed by the House were bipartisan and took incremental steps toward addressing substance abuse, they did not equip the DEA with the authority that it needs to keep our communities safe and healthy. “I urge Republican Leadership to reconsider this issue and allow the Restore Act of 2017 to be brought to the floor as soon as possible. “Thank you Mr./Ms. Speaker and I yield back the rest of my time.”
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Collin C. Peterson (MN-07) and Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08) have introduced a bipartisan amendment to H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, to fully repeal the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2015. This amendment will restore the DEA’s authority to carry out important enforcement actions to combat the opioid epidemic. In April 2016, the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2015 was signed into law after passing unanimously in both the House and the Senate. Originally marketed as a non-controversial bipartisan bill, Members were led to believe that the measure would help secure pain medications for patients and study methods to prevent abuse. However, an investigation conducted by “60 Minutes” and the Washington Post appears to confirm that the legislation had the opposite effect by limiting the DEA’s ability to suspend a pharmaceutical distributor’s license and shipments if they pose an imminent danger to public health and safety. “Although the House recently passed dozens of bills related to opioid and substance abuse, it failed to consider legislation that would restore the DEA’s ability to block suspicious shipments and prevent drug diversion,” said Peterson. “More than ever, Congress needs to equip the DEA with the authority that it needs to keep our communities safe and healthy.” ‘ “As the opioid epidemic continues to ravage communities across our nation, we need to be stepping up efforts to combat this crisis on all fronts, not tying one hand behind the back of those in law enforcement working to stem the tide. This amendment will restore necessary tools to the DEA to do its job and go after those who knowingly overprescribe opioids,” said Fitzpatrick. “We must continue to support law enforcement efforts while focusing on the underlying issues driving people to seek opioids and working to increasing the accessibility and affordability for prevention, education, treatment, and recovery of this disease.” The House is scheduled to consider H.R. 6 later this week
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Collin C. Peterson submitted testimony for the House Committee on Natural Resources’ hearing to examination the effects of cormorant mismanagement in the Great Lakes Region. Double-crested cormorant populations have been relatively unchecked since the 1970’s, when they first received federal protection. On average, one bird will consume 1-2 pounds of fish a day and with no natural predators their numbers have exploded, devastating local ecosystems, fisheries, and lake tourism. “In my district alone, I have routinely heard from fisheries, area resorts, charter boat captains and even tribal leaders about the problems they have personally faced because of the mismanagement of cormorant populations,” Peterson said. “Put simply, unchecked these birds will continue to decimate fisheries.” In 2003, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service released its final rule which allowed for more flexibility in managing double-crested cormorant populations. States within the Great Lakes region were finally able to manage cormorants in reasonable ways when they threatened lake habitats and natural resources. In 2016, a decision from the United States District Court of D.C. to vacate the depredation orders within aquaculture and public resources halted common sense management of cormorant populations. Congressman Peterson has introduced the Cormorant Control Act to the Committee on Natural Resources, which would allow the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to continue issuing cormorant depredation permits for public resources and local aquaculture purposes.
06.19.2018	Work requirements have been part of SNAP, formerly known as food stamps, since 1996. People between 16 and 59 have to work. The problem is that the requirements we have for able-bodied adults don’t work the way they should. They don’t work because they’re too rigid and don’t offer the states any flexibility, so states ask instead to waive the requirements altogether, which sabotages the original intent of reform. For 2018, 36 states requested and received waivers that exempt folks from work requirements. In Minnesota, our governor requested waivers for counties with one percent unemployment by combining those counties with areas of high unemployment. In other states like California, Nevada, New Mexico, Louisiana and Illinois, governors from both parties requested waivers for their entire states. In all cases, the Trump Administration granted the requests. This system has allowed us to ignore the real problems within SNAP for 22 years. But in the 2018 Farm Bill, Republicans only double down on this failed system. They’re throwing good money after bad instead of taking a hard look at those areas where changes would make the system function better. And that’s why I—a person known for bucking my own party so often in the interest of cooperating and producing for the people I represent—chose to vote against the GOP bill. Before voting, I did my homework. I met with SNAP offices in my district and across the river in North Dakota. I consulted with workforce experts in Minnesota and elsewhere. Folks I talked with—people on the ground that work on this program every day—told me this plan was unworkable, and that the only work the Republican farm bill would create is paperwork. Still the Republicans forged ahead, facts be damned. Instead of working with Democrats on changes we could all get behind to improve the program and achieve real reform, Republicans set off on an ideological crusade. Crusades are a lousy way to run the government. My party’s guilty too: we hear knee-jerk calls to expand background checks on gun purchases, but without addressing the fact that databases at agencies like the FBI, Homeland Security, and the Department of Defense don’t talk to one another or to local law enforcement, we’d only be expanding a faulty system. The Republicans’ approach on SNAP is the same: they are leaping before they look. Any time lawmakers begin with a partisan goal in mind instead of taking the time along the way to evaluate and address what needs fixing, it’s a recipe for disaster. I’ll work with Republicans to reform SNAP if the proposal makes sense, but that’s not what this farm bill does.
06.04.2018	Dear Friends, This Memorial Day I had the opportunity to honor fallen heroes and their families during a community ceremony in Barnesville. The ceremony was very touching and a moving example of the many ways Minnesotans offer their appreciation to those who gave the ultimate sacrifice in service to our nation. With Congress in a recess work period I also traveled throughout the district hearing from Minnesotans on a variety of issues. In Willmar I met with Catholic Bishops and then headed to Redwood Falls to visit some businesses. Concerns over the impact of a trade war on our economy has been one of the top issues I hear about from manufacturers and agriculture producers. Following the Administration’s decision this week to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum on our allies like Canada, concerns about retaliatory tariffs on our trade dependent manufacturing and agriculture sectors continue to grow. Sincerely, Congressman Collin C. PetersonMinnesota 7th District Memorial Day in Barnesville On Monday, I was honored to address those attending the Memorial Day ceremony at the Barnesville High School, and to have lunch with attendees following the ceremony at the Barnesville American Legion Post 153. As I noted in my speech, families from our communities across the 7th District and our country have made painful sacrifices in the name of defending our great nation. I appreciated the opportunity to visit with community members and honor the brave men and women who left their homes and families to bear the ugliness and horror of war on our behalf. My office recently became a partner of the Vietnam War’s 50th Commemoration. At the luncheon following the Memorial Day ceremony, I had the opportunity to recognize, issue pins and offer thanks for veterans and surviving family members of those who served during the Vietnam Conflict. It was important for me to be part of this commemorative effort as I feel that those who served our country during the conflict were not treated very well after they returned home from serving their country. More than 25 veterans came forward to be recognized in Barnesville on Monday and I want to again thank them for their service. Catholic Bishops Bishop Michael Hoeppner, Bishop John LeVoir On Wednesday I met with Bishop Micheal Hoeppner and Bishop John LeVoir to discuss wide-ranging topics from the nutrition program in the Farm Bill, to immigration, adoption and education. We had robust discussion about ways we can continue to support the communities and constituents that we serve. Canby Rotary On Thursday, I met with the Canby Rotary to provide an update from Washington and answer questions on current legislation. The Rotary Club was one of the first groups I met with when Canby became part of the 7th District years ago, they continue to be a strong group of community leaders. Daktronics I met with Daktronics in Redwood Falls to discuss how the tariffs on Steel and Aluminum will affect their business. Daktronics brings in 80,000 pounds of metal each week to create the state of the art display boards used in transportation materials, businesses, sporting facilities around the world. I will work to promote fair trade deals that support American businesses that are dependent on affordable materials. Mental Health Awareness Month May was Mental Health Awareness Month. This week, I took the opportunity to visit with staff at the Northwestern Mental Health Center in Crookston. There are about 170 staff that serve six counties in NW Minnesota. Shauna Reitmeier, Executive Director, said their goal is to become a "one stop service”. Mental health is an important issue for people of all backgrounds because it has a wide range of causes and can affect many aspects of a person’s life. In rural areas the needs are great because there are fewer resources available and folks are often required to travel great distances to find assistance. Press Stops in the 7th This week I took the opportunity to connect with a number of press outlets in the district to answer questions and provide insight on what is happening in Washington. During my visit to Willmar I visited with the West Central Tribune, KDJS Radio, Lakeland Broadcasting, and recorded an AgCountry Farm Credit Services Podcast. Each discussion gave me the opportunity to talk about the Farm Bill, NAFTA renegotiations, and what needs to be done for our rural economy. I also mentioned the hard work my staff does in assisting constituents with any issue with federal agencies. Over the years my staff members and I have worked tirelessly with veterans, farmers, ranchers, the elderly, local businesses, and small communities just to name a few. I always enjoy visiting with the local press to discuss my work in Washington while keeping up-to-date on current affairs in Minnesota. To hear my conversation with AgCountry’s Adam Ulbricht, click here. Minnesota Realtors On Thursday, I had the opportunity to meet with realtors from Southwest Minnesota to discuss current legislation and the potential effects of next year’s tax changes on the real estate profession. Strong housing markets support a strong economy, and I look forward to working with these folks to promote sensible housing and tax policy. Dairy Day in Hutchinson (Right) Dairy Princess Elizabeth Krenke (LESTER PRAIRIE), Princess Kay of the Milky Way Emily Annexstad (Saint Peter), and Dairy Princess Breanna Wright (HUTCHINSON) My staff attended the Hutchinson Area Chamber of Commerce & Tourism’s annual Dairy Day Celebration on Friday. Dairy Day is an event that brings the people of the Hutchinson area together for a casual day full of food, music and fun. This year, the celebration featured dairy cows, cheese samples, live music, activities for children, and a cow milking contest. Opiate Crisis and Education Symposium Last week, my Chief of Staff had the opportunity to meet with congressional staff from across the country gathered in St. Louis to address issues related to the opiate crisis, immigration, and challenges in education, among other issues. The bipartisan group was hosted by the U.S. Association of Former Members of Congress, an organization that provides public service programs at home and abroad. They also work to strengthen democracy by creating dialogue between former and current Members of Congress and their staff. The two-day event was a great opportunity to hear from experts in the subjects discussed and for important dialogue between congressional staff from different parts of the country who have wide-ranging perspectives on these matters. Enterprise Minnesota On Friday, my staff aide Jacki Anderson attended Enterprise Minnesota’s State of Manufacturing Update in Morris hosted by the West Central Initiative Foundation. The results of intensive surveys conducted statewide are presented to show the overall health, needs and opportunities in the manufacturing industry. The results showed that 93% of manufacturers from a financial perspective are confident about the future of their company. Although there are plenty of challenges this optimism is very encouraging. I will work hard at the federal level to put forth and support legislation that addresses their top issues and mine including improved healthcare and opportunities to grow our workforce. Redwood Area Hospital This week my staff assistant Meg Louwagie attended the listening session for the Redwood Area Hospital. The Redwood Area Hospital is planning on becoming part of Carris Health Care which is a part of CentraCare out of St. Cloud. This partnership would include better working relationships with surrounding areas, more purchasing power and a new Healthcare campus being built in Redwood Falls. Sioux Falls VA Health Care Systems A member of my staff met with Director Goodspeed of the Sioux Falls VA Health Care Systems and was informed of changes in how the VA will be handling non-VA Emergency Care billing issues in the future. The VA will begin looking at paying part of emergency medical care that has not been covered outside of the VA Health Care system in the past. Minnesota Department of Health Meeting This week, one of my staff aides attended a Minnesota Department of Health joint meeting of the Rural Health Advisory & Flex Advisory Committee to learn about the Community Health Needs Assessments. These Committees work to review and provide support to rural healthcare systems with a goal of focusing on mental health issues throughout the coming year. This Week in American History William Worrall Mayo On May 31, 1819, William W. Mayo was born in England. A pioneer of medicine in Minnesota and one of the first doctors to use a microscope to aid in diagnosis, he would arrive in the territory in 1855 and settle in Rochester in 1863. He is best known for establishing the private medical practice that later evolved into the Mayo Clinic. What’s the Story? Minnesota is home to seven Chippewa reservations and four Dakota communities. Two of the reservations that are in my district are Red Lake Nation and White Earth Nation and I have their flags displayed in the front of my Washington, D.C. office. Native Americans have one of the highest records of military service of any group of Americans. While only three percent of the general population choose to serve, twenty-five percent of able-bodied Native Americans enlist in the United States Armed Forces. With such a demonstrated commitment to service, it should also be known that Native American veterans apply for and receive fewer benefits than other groups of veterans. According to the Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs, fewer than fifty percent of eligible American Indian veterans in Minnesota apply for the benefits they have earned. The Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs operates the the Tribal Veterans Service Officer Program, a program dedicated to getting Native American veterans the benefits they deserve. If you or a loved one is interested in learning more about this program, visit the Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs website. “Autumn’s Eye”Kenzie FultzClara City
05.29.2018	Last Monday on a warm day, I greeted ninety Minnesota veterans at the World War II Memorial on the National Mall. Many of them have never visited the Memorial before. Many have never seen the Pavilion Pillar honoring their Minnesota friends who never returned home. Many have never seen the Field of Stars, a display representing more than 400,000 U.S. soldiers who gave their lives during World War II in defense of our nation. This is one memorial of many throughout our country that stands in remembrance of our fallen heroes. Our aging veterans are particularly special because they are living storytellers of friends they served alongside. These stories are passed down to sons and daughters, grandsons and granddaughters, preserving the memories of past American soldiers who fought in conflicts all over the world. It is never too late to pay respect their memory deserves. To continue in these efforts, I am grateful to announce that my office has been accepted as a Commemorative Partner of the Vietnam War 50th Commemoration. This partnership allows me to award Vietnam Veteran Lapel Pins to veterans who served on active duty from 1955 to 1975 and to family members of deceased veterans during special ceremonies across Minnesota. I hope you will join me in remembering those who lost their lives to protect freedoms we enjoy today. We can all help fulfill our debt to fallen soldiers by listening to living veterans and their stories. As the ninety World War II veterans began leaving the memorial, they will certainly have another story to tell back home. We should use this opportunity to honor all our veterans wherever we can, however we can - from community parades to family kitchen tables.
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON - Representatives Collin Peterson (MN-07) and Greg Gianforte (MT-At Large) have introduced two pieces of bipartisan legislation to relieve certain sectors of the trucking industry from the Federal Motor Carrier Association’s electronic logging device (ELD) mandate. The Small Carrier Electronic Logging Device Exemption Act of 2018 will completely exempt businesses which operate ten or fewer trucks from the requirements of the ELD mandate, and the Agricultural Business Electronic Logging Device Exemption Act of 2018 will completely exempt agricultural businesses. “This legislation will eliminate costly and time-consuming regulations for small trucking companies and individual owner-operators, who constitute much of the rural trucking industry.” Peterson said. “In addition, it will help reduce unnecessary stops and delays which threaten the quality of agricultural products on their way to market.” “Electronic logging devices are another layer of unnecessary red tape that continue to tie up truckers and puts livestock and Montana livelihoods at risk,” Gianforte said. “This measure is a step in the right direction as we reduce the burden this mandate places on Montana’s small trucking operations, farmers, and ranchers." The ELD mandate requires commercial drivers who prepare hours-of-service records to connect an electronic logging device to a vehicle’s engine to record driving hours.
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON – This week, Representatives Collin Peterson (D-MN) and Kevin Cramer (R-ND) led a letter urging the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to adopt long-term budget solutions for the Universal Service Fund (USF). The bipartisan letter, signed by 130 Members of Congress, argues that budget shortfalls in the USF continue to prevent millions of Americans from accessing dependable voice and internet services. In October 2017, Representatives Peterson and Cramer led a similar letter requesting support for the USF high-cost program, which is a segment of the USF responsible for rural development. The letter thanks the FCC for its order to allocate $500 million to the fund as a result, but emphasizes the challenges that rural operators face without consistent and sufficient funding. “If properly funded, the USF high-cost program would be instrumental in deploying broadband to underserved areas,” Peterson said. “Whenever possible, we need to invest in connecting rural communities to each other and the world.” Read the text of the letter below. May 15, 2018 The Honorable Ajit PaiFederal Communications Commission445 12th Street SWWashington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Pai: We thank the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for its recent Order addressing certain High-Cost Universal Service Fund (USF) budget shortfalls. The recent Order is an essential near-term step in the right direction, but we encourage the FCC to adopt longer-term USF budget solutions that will ensure rural Americans the opportunity to obtain voice and broadband services on a basis that is reasonably comparable to what other Americans enjoy. In multiple letters, Congress has expressed broad support for addressing High-Cost program shortfalls. In May 2017, nearly 160 Members of Congress wrote to the FCC, expressing concern about the impact of insufficient USF resources on rural consumers. In October 2017, nearly 75 Members of Congress asked the FCC to immediately address the budget shortfall and continue collecting the same USF budget levels for the High-Cost program pending development of a longer-term solution. The FCC’s recent Order approving an infusion of funds into the USF is greatly welcomed, but it also represents a recognition of, and an incomplete salve for, a more significant problem – the fact that the High-Cost USF program has been and remains insufficient (notwithstanding the recent injection of support). This persistent insufficiency is affecting the ability of smaller rural broadband providers to effectively deliver broadband services in the most rural areas of America. For example, we understand the FCC’s cost model for smaller operators is still not funded at the levels as designed, while those smaller carriers that do not receive model support may face even steeper support cuts than before when the program’s new “fiscal year” takes effect on July 1. For all the work just undertaken, these recurring budget shortfalls will yet again translate to lower speeds, more unserved locations, and higher prices for rural consumers and businesses. To be clear, we greatly appreciate the steps taken by the FCC thus far to address such concerns. However, until longer-term budget solutions are addressed as well, many smaller operators will remain unable to offer high quality, affordable broadband to consumers across rural America. For these reasons, we encourage the FCC to act as soon as possible pursuant to the notice of proposed rulemaking included with the order to provide support that is both sufficient and predictable on a longer-term basis as mandated by statute. Thank you for your consideration. We share your goal of eliminating the digital divide and look forward to working with you to ensure rural American consumers and businesses have access to quality, affordable broadband. Sincerely,
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson, Senators Amy Klobuchar and Tina Smith, and Representatives Betty McCollum and Keith Ellison sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao in support of the Minnesota Department of Transportation (MnDOT) application to fund the Moorhead Grade Separation, Safety, and Mobility Project through the FY18 Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) grant program. The INFRA grant program, a rebranding of the DoT FASTLANE program, is intended to update and maintain transportation standards across the nation. “By redesigning two downtown rail grade crossings, the Moorhead Grade Separation, Safety, and Mobility Project will help improve vehicle and pedestrian safety and reduce congestion,” said Congressman Peterson. “Additionally, it will help drive economic development in the region.” INFRA award decisions will be announced around June. Read the full letter below: May 8, 2018 The Honorable Elaine ChaoSecretary of TransportationUS Department of Transportation1200 New Jersey Avenue SEWashington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary Chao: The undersigned members of the Minnesota Congressional Delegation support the Minnesota Department of Transportation’s submission of the Moorhead Grade Separation, Safety and Mobility Project for the FY 2018 Infrastructure for Rebuilding America Grant Program. This project is a very high priority for the State of Minnesota, addressing significant mobility and safety issues in a bi-state area and the federal funding we seek through this application is urgently needed to complete the work and reconnect this community. The grade separations project will improve connectivity between the National Highway System and the Primary Highway Freight System network, which will allow high volumes of automobile traffic, bicyclists, pedestrians, and transit vehicles to safely move through a crowded area. Five active rail lines bisect the City of Moorhead, including the BNSF Railway mainline. The bi-state metropolitan area of Fargo-Moorhead recognizes these railroad crossings as the area’s most significant conflict points for rail and road traffic, causing undue traffic delays and safety risks. The grade separation and junction improvements resolve a bottleneck and inefficient operations on the BNSF two Railroad lines, including the route of Amtrak’s Empire Builder and access for the Ottertail Valley Railroad, an important Minnesota short line working as a major energy and farm products carrier in western Minnesota. The two BNSF lines are significant regional and transcontinental routes, carrying over 100 total train movements, including critical intermodal, coal and crude oil unit trains. Funding this project will substantially improve safety as well as drive economic development in two upper Midwest states. The INFRA grant award is crucial to Minnesota. We appreciate your consideration of this project and urge you to select it for funding. Sincerely,
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson had the highest bipartisan score within the House of Representatives in 2017, according to the Bipartisan Index (BPI) measured and administered by the Lugar Center and McCourt School of Public Policy at Georgetown University. The non-partisan analysis shows Peterson’s track record of consistently working across the aisle on a variety of issues important to his congressional district and to rural America. “I am sent to DC to represent and work for all the people of Minnesota’s Seventh District,” Peterson said. “My job in Congress is to work with whomever I can to improve peoples’ lives. No one can do that by always voting the party line.” The Lugar Center and the McCourt School of Public Policy at Georgetown University jointly released their new BPI rankings of members of Congress for 2017. The BPI is a non-partisan tool that measures the degree to which Senators and Representatives work across party lines on legislation. The Bipartisan Index measures how often a member of Congress introduces bills that succeed in attracting co-sponsors from members of the other party, and how often they in turn co-sponsor a bill introduced from across the aisle. The Index is based on a formula applied uniformly to all members. No subjective judgments are made about individual members or bills. The Index serves as a critical resource for voters and the media and, its sponsors hope, encourages lawmakers to be more bipartisan when writing or co-sponsoring legislation. For a complete look at the 2017 BPI click here.
05.04.2018	Congressman Collin C. Peterson has cosponsored the Volunteer Driver Tax Appreciation Act which would boost the IRS federal reimbursement rates for charitable drivers from 14 cents to 54.5 cents per mile. “It’s my belief that we have a responsibility to help serve those who have served us. This measure will help reduce the financial stresses for volunteers who assist seniors across the country,” said Peterson. “I will continue efforts in improving services for all seniors.” Seniors who are unable to drive will often rely on volunteer drivers to take them from place to place. On average, it costs more than 3 times to use a taxi service rather than have a volunteer driver. Many volunteer drivers are retirees or military veterans living on fixed incomes. The bill’s language would align the reimbursement rate for charitable driving with that of businesses, thus allowing appropriate reimbursement for volunteer drivers. A recent change to IRS reimbursement guidelines for charitable driving made this action necessary. The release from the IRS highlighting these changes can be found here. https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/standard-mileage-rates-for-2018-up-from-rates-for-2017 A number of organizations throughout the 7th District provide transportation services for seniors. Seniors in need of transport services can find local programs through the state database at https://www.minnesotahelp.info/SpecialTopics/Seniors/Search?sm=All&q=Senior+Ride+Programs&loc=Detroit+Lakes%2C+MN+56501&geo=46.817181%2C-95.845325&reg=Becker%2C+MN
04.13.2018	This week, Representatives Collin Peterson (D-MN) and Kevin Cramer (R-ND) introduced the bipartisan Office of Rural Telecommunications Act to establish an “Office of Rural Telecommunications” at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Under the legislation, the office will liaise with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Utilities Service (RUS), the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), the Universal Service Administration Company (USAC), and other agencies to help coordinate federal efforts and resources to develop rural telecommunications systems. The office will also assess and publish the impact of FCC actions on rural consumers and annually report its findings to Congress. “This legislation will help focus the attention of the FCC on providing rural communities with dependable and affordable broadband services,” said Peterson. “Congress needs to do everything possible to shed light on the disadvantages that millions of Americans continue to face without them.” “The FCC and other federal agencies are joining Congress to remove barriers so broadband can be more effectively deployed in rural areas,” said Cramer. “Affordable internet service is vital to small businesses, farmers, and folks all over rural America. This legislation will help give access to consumers in unreached areas by establishing an office specializing in this issue.” The Office of Rural Telecommunications Act is endorsed by NTCA – the Rural Broadband Association and the Minnesota Telecom Alliance.
04.13.2018	This week, Representatives Collin Peterson (D-MN) and Scott Tipton (R-CO) introduced the bipartisan Rural Hospital Frontier Fairness Act to provide Sole Community Hospitals with increased funding for workforce development. The legislation will also expand a crucial safety-net program to help rural facilities secure affordable medications for patients. Under current law, Sole Community Hospitals in “Frontier States” benefit from the “Floor on Area Wage Index for Hospitals in Frontier States” to offer higher wages to employees. While this provision has been effective in strengthening the rural health workforce in Frontier States, it has placed nearby facilities in non-Frontier States at a significant disadvantage when competing for employees in the same geographic area. The Rural Hospital Frontier Fairness Act addresses this problem by applying the Floor on Area Wage Index for Hospitals to any Sole Community Hospital located within 75 miles of a Frontier State’s border. In addition, the legislation will qualify the same facilities for automatic participation in the 340b Drug Pricing Program. “This legislation will help maintain the continuum of care in rural communities across the country,” said Peterson. “It will also allow rural facilities to direct resources at patients rather than overpriced medications.” “One of the greatest challenges families in rural Colorado face is a lack of access to health care providers,” said Tipton. “The Rural Hospital Frontier Fairness Act will help rural hospitals attract and retain healthcare providers, improving access to quality health care as well as improve access to affordable medications.”
12.19.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1. “While many people will get a modest temporary tax cut under the Republican tax bill, others will see their taxes go up if they face high medical expenses, pay high state and local taxes, or have families with many children,” Peterson said. “I can’t support a bill that will make the tax system more complicated for many small businesses while adding up to $2 trillion to the nation’s debt. This bill was a missed opportunity to promote real economic growth, simplify our tax code, and help the middle class.”
12.18.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson led a bipartisan letter with Senator Amy Klobuchar, Rep. Tim Walz, Rep. Betty McCollum, Rep. Rick Nolan, Rep. Tom Emmer, and Rep. Keith Ellison urging U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) to delay the announced reduction of service hours in Lancaster and Roseau Ports of Entry (POEs), and to create a pilot program using proven technology to increase service for non-commercial crossings at those sites. CBP surprised residents living in northwest Minnesota by announcing they would be dramatically reducing service hours in the Lancaster and Roseau POEs and shift officers to Pembina, ND. Residents attending town halls voiced their strong objections to the reduction of service citing concerns about the impact it would have on the region’s economy. In the letter, the lawmakers identify the pilot program already underway at the NW Angle as a model for what can be created at the Lancaster and Roseau POEs. “We write to urge U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to initiate a pilot program that utilizes existing virtual interview process technology at the Lancaster and Roseau Ports of Entry (POEs) and delay the reduction in service hours until the pilot can be launched.” The lawmakers continued, “with slight infrastructure improvements, Lancaster and Roseau POEs will be able to safely and efficiently process passenger vehicles twenty-four hours a day without rerouting them through inconvenient ports in Pembina or Warroad.” If CBP agrees to expand the use of this technology for these ports of entry, it could have wide-ranging benefits for Minnesota. The benefits of the new technology include establishing an efficient way for area residents and tourists to check-in with CBP officials remotely while expanding resources for local businesses and resort owners. Current hours of service at the Port of Lancaster are 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily. The CBP has announced that they will reduce the hours of service, operating from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. between October 1 and April 30 and 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. between May 1 through September 30. Travelers wishing to cross into the U.S. when the port is closed may cross at the Pembina, North Dakota POE which is open 24 hours and located approximately 30 miles west of Lancaster. The current hours of service at the Port of Roseau are 8 a.m. to midnight. The new hours of operation will be 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. year round. Travelers wishing to cross into the U.S. after hours may cross at the Warroad, Minnesota POE which is also open 24 hours and located approximately 21 miles east of Roseau. Read the letter below: Dear Executive Assistant Commissioner Todd C. Owen: We write to urge U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to initiate a pilot program that utilizes existing virtual interview process technology at the Lancaster and Roseau Ports of Entry (POEs) and delay the reduction in service hours until the pilot can be launched. We believe that a pilot at these ports would result in a mutually beneficial situation for local residents that depend on reliable access to these POEs and the agency which has expressed a need for more officers at the Pembina, North Dakota port. We are pleased with the current pilot program that is underway at the Northwest Angle, a remote and unique area in Minnesota which will greatly benefit from virtual interview process technology. The mechanics and model of this pilot can also be applied in a cost-effective manner to the Lancaster and Roseau POEs, which are updated facilities that already possess license plate readers. With slight infrastructure improvements, Lancaster and Roseau POEs will be able to safely and efficiently process passenger vehicles twenty-four hours a day without rerouting them through inconvenient ports in Pembina or Warroad. When CBP announced the agency would reduce service hours at Lancaster and Roseau POEs, two town hall meetings were held on November 6th and November 2nd, 2017. At the Lancaster town hall alone, a petition was signed by 495 constituents who agreed with the statement that the reduction in service hours will have a negative economic, financial, and personal effect on those who operate businesses, travel, and live near these POEs. The pilot program we are advocating for in this letter could significantly address many of these concerns. We understand CBP’s overall goal is to optimize service along our nation’s land borders in a fiscally responsible manner. The Planning, Program Analysis, and Evaluation Office within the Office of Field Operations plays a vital role in leveraging technologies which better serve our citizens’ needs. In your response, we request that you identify any existing technology that could be utilized in a virtual interview process pilot program at the Lancaster and Roseau POEs. This pilot would serve as an efficient and innovative way for CBP to continue serving our communities while meeting that goal. While this request is considered, we ask that the agency delay current plans to reduce service hours at these ports until a pilot program can begin implementation and the ongoing needs of the communities can be evaluated in an open and transparent manner. We look forward to working with you to advance this use of technology as a possible solution for all stakeholders. Sincerely,
12.13.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson made the following statement today after Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton appointed Lt. Governor Tina Smith to the U.S. Senate. “I’ve had the opportunity to get to know Lt. Governor Smith over the years and she has always been attentive to issues important to Greater Minnesota,” Peterson said. “In addition to her experience as Lieutenant Governor, she is a good shot, taking a pheasant at my Pheasant Hunt. I look forward to working with her in her new role as U.S. Senator for the people of Minnesota.”
12.07.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson made the following statement after Senator Franken’s decision to resign from the Senate. “The behavior described in these continued allegations is out of line and unacceptable. Senator Franken is making the right choice by resigning,” Peterson said.
11.17.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson made the following statement after House passage of the Republican tax bill. “I support making the corporate tax rate more competitive internationally and simplifying our system. However, eliminating a number of provisions like those that help families who have large medical bills due to cancer or Alzheimer’s, or those that help people struggling to pay off their student loans in order to pay for the corporate reduction is not fair and not needed given we end up with a large increase in the national debt anyway. “While this bill claims to make taxes simpler for many individuals by increasing the standard deduction, the elimination of personal exemptions makes the increase very small. It will also create a more complicated system for pass through entities that I believe will be abused and spawn tax shelter businesses. We can lower the corporate tax rate, but shouldn’t do it at the expense of individual deductions, or the elimination of Sec. 199 for coops, or the wind power credit. “A significant number of individual taxpayers will see major increases in their tax bill while adding at least $1.5 trillion to the deficit. Corporate rates can be reduced without sticking future generations with this added debt. I cannot in good conscience support a bill that drives up our deficit and will increase taxes on thousands of Minnesotans.”
11.17.2017	In a phone call to U.S Customs and Border Protection, Congressman Collin C. Peterson asked the agency to reconsider their decision in reducing service hours and shifting staff at key border entry ports in Lancaster and Roseau. “These ports help drive the local economy when Canadians visiting Minnesota spend money at our restaurants, gas stations, golf courses, and campgrounds. In addition to tourism, this change will affect the ability for medical personnel in Roseau to respond to emergency calls in the Northwest Angle and smaller towns in Manitoba,” Peterson said. “I hope the Customs officials will begin to listen to the concerns of those living and working in these communities.” On the call, the agency confirmed that a final decision has not been made and that there is still a possibility for an adjustment of the proposed hours at the ports. Since the decision was announced, both Lancaster and Roseau have had town halls for area residents to voice their concerns with CBP officials.
11.13.2017	Today we honor all the men and women who’ve served our country. A veteran’s commitment to protecting America should never go unnoticed or unappreciated. President Dwight D. Eisenhower rightfully saw the need for a time dedicated to our veterans and proclaimed November 11th as Veterans Day. We reflect on the sacrifices made by veterans and their families which have helped to ensure that freedom and democracy prevail in this country. Since its founding, the United States has fought in 11 major wars and other smaller conflicts. More than 50 million Americans have served in our military during those times. Minnesota's Seventh Congressional District is currently home to over 50,000 veterans. In Congress, we are working to improve the benefits and resources our service members have earned both overseas and here at home. I have recently cosponsored many bills benefitting veterans, one for example would eliminate taxes imposed on a surviving spouse and another would increase the number of outreach specialists in VA medical centers. I am also working to improve education and employment options for those returning from service. The transition back to civilian life is not easy, and as a Member of Congress I will work to meet our obligation to those who serve and defend us. Their strength and courage inspires us to work hard at improving our lives at home. I am proud to join with my fellow Minnesotans to pay tribute to those who have bravely defended this country.
10.03.2017	This week, Representatives Collin Peterson and Kevin Cramer sent a letter urging the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to address the budget shortfall in the High-Cost Universal Service Fund (USF). The bipartisan letter, signed by 37 Members of Congress, argues that a lack of sufficient funding for rural broadband development puts millions of Americans at a significant disadvantage. “More than ever, it’s important that we provide rural communities with comparable broadband services for comparable rates,” Peterson said. “We must ensure that the USF fulfills its obligation to provide all Americans with accessible and affordable high-speed connections.” The letter is increasingly time-sensitive as the FCC considers adjusting the overall USF budget by the end of 2017. Read the full text of the letter below: Dear Chairman Pai: We write to request that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) take action to address the budget shortfall in certain parts of the High-Cost Universal Service Fund (USF). As outlined in a letter sent to you last May by 160 Members of Congress, this lack of sufficient funding puts the rural communities that we represent at a significant disadvantage. The annual budget instructions through which the High-Cost USF is funded have not been fully utilized since their implementation in 2011. Despite the appearance of surplus funds in the overall budget in prior years, the Rate of Return (ROR) carriers that benefit from High-Cost USF programs have been subject to strict and separate budget caps under actual cost recovery mechanisms and cost model support. These caps limit broadband infrastructure investments in nearly 40 percent of rural America. Pending comprehensive FCC review or adjustment of the High-Cost USF budget instructions, we strongly urge you to maintain level collections from telecommunications companies into the future. To the extent that the collected sum exceeds High-Cost USF spending obligations at the time, the FCC should directly apply funds to help mitigate or neutralize the budget constraints applied to these smaller, rural operators. While it is currently unclear how funds that exceed High-Cost USF spending may be obligated under existing budget instructions, their continued collection has the potential to help provide rural communities with comparable broadband services for comparable rates relative to urban areas. In doing so, the country will move closer to the fund’s stated mission to provide all Americans with “accessible, affordable, and pervasive high-speed connectivity.” Thank you for considering our request. We look forward to working with you to ensure that the “digital divide” does not exclude millions of rural Americans from the services that they, and our economy, depend on.
08.22.2017	ANGLE INLET - Yesterday, Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.) and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) distributed new border identification check technology to local resort owners to officially begin the first phase of a new Lake of the Woods pilot program. U.S. Representative Collin Peterson worked for years on behalf of Minnesotans living in Lake of the Woods County and was an instrumental advocate for the region being selected as a testing ground for the new CBP technology. "The communities in Lake of the Woods depend heavily on tourism due to the world-class fishing opportunities," Peterson said. "I am very pleased to share this day with resort owners and anglers alike who will be testing U.S. Customs and Border Protection's new technology on behalf of the nation. I believe these new border check reporting systems will encourage visitors from other parts of Minnesota and the nation to come and enjoy the unique outdoor experiences this area has to offer." In February, U.S. Representative Peterson wrote and led a letter, along with U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), U.S. Senator Al Franken (D-Minn.), and U.S. Representative Rick Nolan (D-Minn.), to CBP asking the agency to find solutions for safe and efficient alternatives to the outdated OARS system in the Northwest Angle. This request also advocated for initiating a pilot program to begin testing new border check technology in the Northwest Angle. Ultimately, Lake of the Woods was selected by CBP to test new border check technology which will be released in three phases. The roll out will completely replace Outlying Area Reporting Stations (OARS), which are physical phones inside unheated sheds that are scattered in only three locations across the Northwest Angle. Previously, visitors fishing in Canadian waters would have to check in with CBP at one of the OARS phones before returning to their resort or home. OARS phones have been notoriously difficult for travelers to reach, especially during winter months when weather conditions are freezing, dark and dangerous. First, tablets were distributed yesterday to resorts that chose to participate in the pilot. These tablets provide a secure link to the local Warroad Port of Entry where CBP officers will identify travelers returning to Minnesota from Ontario. The resorts provide Wi-Fi connection so their customers can lawfully report their arrival from a safe location. Second, CBP is working on a mobile application so travelers can log-in with their information and use the camera feature on their phone to report their entry into the United States. Finally, the three OARS phones will be permanently replaced by high-tech kiosks, which American and Canadian visitors can also use if they are driving to or from the Northwest Angle for business or other reasons. If this pilot program is successful, the technology could be used across the nation in the future. U.S. Representative Peterson was joined by local and visiting U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel, Border Patrol Agents, County Commissioners, Lake of the Woods Tourism, and others to deliver the first phase tablet technology to resort owners. Following the event, the group spent the afternoon fishing and enjoyed a fish fry at Flag Island.
08.14.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson made the following statement today in response to the recent tragedy in Charlottesville, VA. “Hatred and bigotry associated with the white supremacists, neo-Nazis, and the KKK has no place in our society,” Peterson said. “The tragedy in Charlottesville is another example of the struggles our country faces to unite and confront hate. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families.”
08.11.2017	After years of advocacy to improve border crossing technology at the Northwest Angle and Lake of the Woods, Congressman Collin Peterson, along with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, will unveil new border reporting technology to local resort owners. “Lake of the Woods and the Northwest Angle resorts depend heavily on recreational tourism because of their world-class fishing,” Peterson said. “American anglers often cross over into Canadian waters to fish, but then must report back in with U.S. Customs. The reporting technology hasn’t changed since the 1970s, has failed on many occasions, and has been a serious safety concern. I am hopeful this state-of-the-art reporting technology will make it easier for fishing enthusiasts and resort owners to comply with the law.” WHEN: Monday, August 21st WHERE: Young’s Bay Resort 7600 Young's Bay Dr NW Angle Inlet, MN 56711 WHEN: 12 noon lunch (for individual purchase) at Jerry's Restaurant 1 p.m. press conference at boat launch between Jerry's and Young's Bay Resort 2-3:30 p.m. boat tour for press *Be advised that in order to get into the NW Angle you will need to drive into Canada and you must have a passport in get back into the U.S.* Please RSVP to Justin.Rostad@mail.house.gov
08.02.2017	Today, Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.) expressed his disappointment with the decision made by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia to maintain federal Endangered Species Act protections for gray wolves in Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan. “Once again, the courts have proven themselves ignorant to the facts and science when it comes to determining whether gray wolves in the Western Great Lakes states need federal protections. Even the Obama Administration agreed that gray wolf numbers in these states far exceeded any warranty for relisting,” Peterson said. “Congress needs to fix this situation by passing my bill, the Gray Wolf State Management Act of 2017, so that states can effectively balance safety and economic issues and finally bring relief to my farmers.” The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled on August 1, 2017 to uphold the previous court ruling which resulted in federal control of the gray wolf species in Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan. The Gray Wolf State Management Act of 2017 (H.R. 424) would return management of gray wolves to Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan and would not allow further judicial review of this action. The bill would not prevent Fish and Wildlife Service from relisting gray wolves if their numbers fall below the agency’s predetermined criteria.
07.20.2017	Yesterday, Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.) testified in front of the full House Committee on Natural Resources in support his bill, the Gray Wolf State Management Act of 2017. H.R. 424 would delist gray wolves in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Wyoming from federal protections and return management to the states. “I want to thank the House Committee on Natural Resources for holding a hearing on my gray wolf bill which will bring much needed relief to farmers and ranchers,” Peterson said. “Protecting their livestock while the gray wolf is federally protected creates an impossible situation. Gray wolves should be managed by state plans which maintained more than adequate wolf population numbers. This practical, bipartisan legislation would bring peace of mind to farmers and ranchers who are concerned about protecting their businesses from devastating losses associated with gray wolves.” The State of Minnesota created an adequate state management plan that balanced the gray wolf population with economic and safety concerns from 2011 until 2014. State management was shifted back to the federal government after a single judge in Washington, DC decided that gray wolves needed federal protection. This decision was made despite scientific arguments presented by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), an agency primarily responsible for administering the Endangered Species Act. The agency conducted population surveys in Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan and determined that gray wolf population numbers no longer required federal protection and that these states were more than capable of managing the species.
07.06.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.) released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) revealed its proposed renewable volume obligations (RVO) for 2018 and 2019 as required by the Renewable Fuel Standard. “I am pleased that EPA correctly recognized corn ethanol as a robust industry capable of producing 15 billion gallons as required by statute,” Peterson said. “I will continue to work with EPA on market access issues like the Reid Vapor Pressure fix which is needed to improve consumer choices at the pump.” By law, EPA is required to release its final RVO numbers for 2018 and 2019 by November 30, 2017.
06.29.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) made the following statement yesterday in regards to the Environmental Protection Agency’s proposal to withdraw the Waters of the U.S. rule. “I strongly support the Environmental Protection Agency’s proposal to withdraw the Waters of the U.S. rule. I am hopeful this action will start the process of bringing much needed relief for farmers, ranchers, rural businesses and local governments,” Peterson said. “Administrator Pruitt committed to me earlier this year that they would make this a priority, and I will continue to do what I can in Congress to support common sense solutions.”
06.14.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) made the following statement today in regards to the shooting in Alexandria, VA. “My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims and their families of the shooting at baseball practice this morning. This was a horrific act and I commend Capitol Police for their bravery and efforts which likely saved many lives,” Peterson said. “I joined my colleagues today on the House Floor as a sign that we are Americans first.”
05.25.2017	Congressman Collin Peterson is pleased to announce the winners of the Congressional Art Competition from Minnesota’s Seventh Congressional District. Prinsburg student Meghan Listerud is the winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition, for her watercolor painting “Minnesota Chicken”. Meghan will travel to Washington, D.C. in June for a reception honoring her artwork, along with fellow Competition winners from across the country. This year’s runner-up is “Self Portrait” by Jessaca Zuidema of Blomkest, MN. Her work will be displayed in Congressman Peterson’s District office in Detroit Lakes. The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent across the country. The Competition began in 1982 as an opportunity for Members of Congress to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of their young constituents. Since then, more than 650,000 high-school students have participated in the nation-wide contest. “There were many art pieces submitted this year and I am very proud of the work put into them. I would like to thank every high school artist who participated and I look forward to seeing local art presented in Washington D.C.,” Peterson said. “Minnesota Chicken”Meghan Listerud “Self Portrait”Jessaca Zuidema Visitors can see the art work displayed in the tunnel that connects the Cannon House Office Building with the U.S. Capitol.
05.25.2017	House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson today made the following statement on the Trump Administration’s FY 2018 Budget Request which would cut $231 billion from mandatory farm bill spending over ten years. “This budget should be a warning to people in rural America. For years, groups like the Freedom Caucus, Heritage Foundation and Club for Growth have been advocating for these exact policies as part of their goal to completely do away with farm programs. They are now closer to making this a reality than ever before. “By all accounts this budget is going nowhere on Capitol Hill but it is still a statement of priorities and should be of concern to all rural Americans. Going down this path all but guarantees there will be no new farm bill. “I will continue to advocate for strong policies that ensure a strong farm safety net, including crop insurance, as well as programs that allow rural communities to provide critical infrastructure services like water and broadband access. I’m hopeful we can get past this ideology and make reasonable reforms as part of future farm bill debate but this is not a good place to start.” The $231 billion cut to mandatory farm bill spending includes a $193 billion cut to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). The budget proposes an additional $8.494 billion in mandatory USDA cuts and also calls for a 20 percent cut in USDA discretionary spending.
05.19.2017	In March, the Minnesota Legislature voted to establish the Minnesota Premium Security Program (MPSP) to help stabilize the individual health insurance market. This week, Congressman Peterson led a letter from the Minnesota Congressional Delegation urging the expeditious approval of the State’s waiver application to fund and implement the bipartisan initiative. “This is particularly important to our rural and underserved areas,” the letter reads, “where it is critical that we reduce future rate increases, encourage consumer enrollment, preserve insurer participation, and expand access to affordable healthcare.” Implementation of MPSP is increasingly time-sensitive as health plans prepare to propose individual market rates for 2018. Read the full text of the letter below: Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Secretary Price: We write to request that the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services grant expedited consideration to Minnesota’s application for a 1332 State Innovation Waiver. With your approval, Minnesota will be better positioned to fund and implement the Minnesota Premium Security Program (MPSP), a state-based reinsurance program designed to stabilize its individual health insurance market. This year, the Minnesota Legislature voted to establish MPSP with bipartisan support from the Governor and Democratic and Republican Leadership to address premium increases in the individual market. This is particularly important to our rural and underserved areas, where it is critical that we reduce future rate increases, encourage consumer enrollment, preserve insurer participation, and expand access to affordable healthcare. Minnesota’s waiver application is increasingly time-sensitive as health plans prepare to propose individual market rates for 2018. On behalf of our constituents, we encourage you to consider and approve the application as soon as possible and keep our offices appraised of any developments. Sincerely, ###
05.19.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson’s (D-Minn.) office organized a meeting with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Senator Al Franken’s (D-Minn.) office, Senator Amy Klobuchar’s (D-Minn.) office, and Richard M. Nolan’s (D-Minn.) office and learned that the agency selected the Lake of the Woods region for a pilot program to test safer and smarter technology reporting methods to replace outdated Outlying Area Reporting Station phones. The decision by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to initiate a pilot program in the Lake of the Woods region is encouraging news towards addressing a pressing issue for a community that depends heavily on tourism. Fishermen and outdoorsmen from around the world travel to Lake of the Woods with their families to enjoy incredible fishing experiences enhanced by a strong resort presence. Oftentimes fishing guides and their guests travel into Ontario, which prompts border security checks by Canada and the United States upon return. The current system of using the three available Outlying Area Reporting Station (OARS) phones is outdated and onerous to access. “I commend U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the agency’s decision to use Lake of the Woods as a testing ground for new border reporting technologies. This is exciting news for tourists, resorts, and border agents alike and I look forward to a successful pilot program that includes input from our stakeholders so the United States can enhance border security while maintaining a strong local economy,” said Congressman Peterson. “I’ve long been working to ease the reporting burden for Minnesotans and other tourists who come from around the world to visit Lake of the Woods every year. So I’m very pleased by the decision to move forward with this pilot program, which will improve safety and convenience for travelers and anglers while strengthening our Northern Minnesota economy,” said Senator Franken. “Tourism and fishing are at the heart of Lake of the Woods’ economy,” said Senator Klobuchar. “Piloting this technology in the Northwest Angle will help make travel safer for both visitors and Minnesotans and ensure that businesses in the outdoor recreation and tourism industries are not hurt because of outdated border technology.” “We’re pleased that U.S. Customs and Border Protection has chosen Lake of the Woods to test their new border reporting technologies. This decision will help promote efficient, effective border security, and lays the foundation for its use at other entry points along the Minnesota-Canada border. Effective implementation and utilization will promote an even more robust tourism industry that supports our local economy,” Nolan said. More details will follow in the coming weeks as the pilot program is set to roll out in June 2017.
05.04.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson today voted “no” on the American Health Care Act, citing concerns it will have on his district. He made the following statement: “The healthcare bill that passed the House today is even worse than the bill that was introduced two months ago. Like the previous bill, this legislation won’t help the people in the middle who are struggling with skyrocketing premiums and unaffordable deductibles. It also jeopardizes the protections for people with pre-existing conditions that so many people from my district need to keep their coverage,” Peterson said. “Over the last few months I met with hospitals, doctors and constituents from across the district with concerns about the bill, including the significant cuts to Medicaid funding and eligibility which would hurt our state. This political exercise today only delays the inevitable bipartisan work which will be needed to fix our healthcare system.”
04.21.2017	On Saturday, Congressman Collin C. Peterson will host a town hall meeting with State Representative Dave Baker and State Senator Andrew Lang in the 7th District. “With partisanship at an all-time high, it’s more important now than ever to reach across the aisle,” said Peterson. “In the spirit of bipartisanship, I am encouraging folks to visit with State Representative Baker, State Senator Lang, and myself to discuss the opioid crisis and healthcare concerns facing Minnesota.” WHEN: Saturday, April 22 @1 p.m. WHERE: Prairie Woods Environmental Learning Center 12718 10th Street NE Spicer, Minnesota 56288
04.03.2017	On Monday, Congressman Collin C. Peterson will host a town hall meeting focused on healthcare in the 7th District. “The affordability and quality of healthcare for people in the middle continues to be an issue I hear about across the district,” said Peterson. “With the decision to scrap the Republican healthcare plan, I want to continue my outreach on healthcare issues should Republicans look for a bipartisan approach to fixing our healthcare system.” WHEN: Monday, April 10 @7 p.m. WHERE: Horizon Middle School 3601 12th Ave. South Moorhead, MN 56560
03.31.2017	U.S. Representative Collin Peterson today announced his office is accepting applications for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. The winning artwork will be featured for one year in the United States Capitol. “This contest is a great way to display the artwork from students of the Seventh District. I am always very proud of the work put into these pieces and I would encourage every high school artist to participate,” Peterson said. The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent across the country. The Competition began in 1982 as an opportunity for Members of Congress to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of their young constituents. Since then, more than 650,000 high-school students have participated in the nation-wide contest. The grand prize winner will be flown to Washington, D.C. in June for a reception honoring his or her artwork, which will be on display for one year. Two semi-finalists will have their artwork displayed in Peterson’s district offices. Submitted artwork may be up to 26 inches x 26 inches (including the frame) and may be up to 4 inches in depth. Accepted mediums include: Paintings – including oil, acrylics and watercolor Drawings – including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink and markers Collage (two-dimensional) Prints – including lithographs, silkscreen and block prints Mixed Media Computer Generated Art Photography All entries must be original in concept, design and execution. Artwork that is a reproduction of another artist’s work, including photographs, does not qualify for this competition. HOW TO APPLY: To best ensure accessibility for all students, Peterson’s office will be accepting all Congressional Art Competition submissions online. Selection of the winning piece will be determined based upon the photograph submitted with the application. More information is available at https://collinpeterson.house.gov. Faculty or students with questions can also contact Chelsea Cornett in Peterson’s Washington, D.C. Office at 202-225-2165. To apply for the Congressional Art Competition, please submit a photograph of the artwork with the following information to congressional.art@mail.house.gov: Student Name Address Phone Number Artwork Title Medium The deadline for all submissions is Friday, May 5, 2017.
03.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Cheri Bustos of Illinois, Co-Chair of the Democratic Policy & Communications Committee, Congressman John Yarmuth, Ranking Member on the Budget Committee, Congressman Collin Peterson, Ranking Member on the Agriculture Committee, and Congressman Tom O’Halleran of Arizona today held a press conference highlighting the devastating impact President Trump’s FY2018 budget blueprint would have on hard-working American families, especially those living in rural America. The blueprint calls for a 21 percent cut to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which administers important programs and services to Americans in rural areas. The budget also calls for eliminating the water and wastewater loan and grant program, the TIGER grant program, Essential Air Service program, Rural Business Cooperative Service, the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), and Community Development Block Grants, which states use to pay for Meals on Wheels, and other initiatives that provide jobs and services for working families. Reps. Bustos, Peterson and O’Halleran all represent largely rural districts, which were carried by Donald Trump in the 2016 election. “Every weekend, when I go to grocery stores across my district, more and more moms and dads are asking me what the heck is going on with President Trump breaking his promises,” said Congresswoman Cheri Bustos. “When it comes to rural America, there is no clearer example of President Trump breaking his promise than the budget he released yesterday. President Trump likes to call this an 'America First' budget, but when you dig into the details, he's making a deliberate choice to damage our rural economy by eliminating programs that have created thousands of jobs in small towns, ending critical infrastructure investments in rural communities and making it harder for our growers and producers to sell their crops.” “The Trump budget is not only irresponsible and cold-hearted, it’s ignorant to the needs and priorities of American families,” said Congressman John Yarmuth. “President Trump promised to create jobs and make Americans safer. Yet his budget cuts education, transportation, resources that protect public health and our environment, and diplomatic initiatives that keep our country safe. This budget is called “America First” but it’s the last thing American families can afford.” “Rural America provides a tremendous service to this country but I don’t think the Administration understands that,” said Congressman Collin Peterson. “The budget cuts programs that help our smaller communities be able to update their water systems and farmers navigate farm programs. These programs support rural areas, which support agriculture, which allows us to have cheap, safe and dependable food. I’m not sure this is going any place but I have concerns about what this means for the future farm and rural policy.” “The reality is our tribal communities face anywhere from 50 to 80 percent unemployment, wages are lower in rural America, and the types of programs that are being cut in this proposal would have a devastating impact on our tribal lands and rural areas,” said Congressman O’Halleran. “Rural Americans are tough. They have always given back to our country, and they deserve fairness and respect. What we see in this budget proposal is not fairness and respect, but rather, a complete disregard for the challenges our rural communities face.” Video of today’s press conference can be found here.
03.08.2017	Today, the Minnesota Congressional Delegation came together for U.S. Sen. Al Franken's (D-Minn.) seventh annual hotdish competition. Sen. Franken started the friendly "Hotdish Off" as a way to bring the delegation together and celebrate a Minnesota culinary tradition. You can download video from the event here and here, and an interview with Sen. Franken that you should feel free to use here. Participants recipes can be found here. You can find photos of the competition here. After a blind taste test of all ten Minnesota Congressional member's hotdishes, Rep. Collin Peterson’s “Right to Bear Arms Hotdish” was named the winner of the 2017 Hotdish Off. The judges included: Mee Moua—President and executive director of Asian Americans Advancing Justice and former Minnesota state senator Norm Ornstein—Resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, native Minnesotan and University of Minnesota alum Dr. Ed Ehlinger—Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Health This is Rep. Peterson’s first hotdish title. “After a pretty grueling and divisive election year, it was great to put aside our differences and come together over some great hotdish,” said Sen. Franken. “I would like to thank all of my colleagues for taking the time out of their busy schedules to join the competition, and congratulate Rep. Peterson on his award-winning, bear meat-filled hotdish.” “This event is always a strong showing of bipartisanship and good food,” Rep. Peterson said. “It is an honor to be this year’s winner, with a hotdish that recognizes the great outdoors. It’s always a pleasure to come together with the delegation. I appreciate Senator Franken’s work to continue this annual tradition and thank the other delegation members for tasty hotdish.” “Minnesota draws its strength and vitality from our people, and so does this hotdish,” Sen. Klobuchar said. “From Swedish meatballs to Somali coriander to Ukrainian kielbasa, the ingredients in my ‘Minnesota Melting Tot’ hotdish come together as a celebration of our state’s people. There’s no better way to showcase Minnesota’s heritage than with this hotdish and our bipartisan friendly culinary competition. May the best tot win.” “There is nothing trumped up about my classic Minnesota hotdish, Little Hotdish on the Prairie,” Rep. McCollum said. “Thank you to Senator Franken for bringing us together again this year to share in this Minnesota specialty.” “At a time when Minnesotans are being told the urban-rural divide couldn’t be greater, the Hotdish Off is a warm, welcome reminder that there is more that binds us together than divides us apart,” said Rep. Walz. “At the end of the day, we all share the same core Minnesota values: family, freedom… and good food! Let us hold the lessons of today’s gathering dear as we strive to do the People’s work in a bipartisan manner. As always, a big thanks to Senator Franken for hosting this fantastic event.” “I always look forward to the Hot Dish Off,” Rep. Ellison said. “It’s a great opportunity to unwind and be unapologetically Minnesotan. I think we all need some Minnesota Nice in our lives right now.” “Today's MN delegation concoctions prove once again that Hotdish is one of the four major food groups,” Rep. Paulsen said. “Congrats Rep. Peterson on his victory this year!” “Hotdish is the Minnesota State Hockey Tournament of foods, a proud tradition that brings us together to cheer both the winners and the losers,” Rep. Nolan said. “While it appears there are few things Republicans and Democrats agree on publicly these days, one thing we can all agree on is hotdish,” said Rep. Emmer. “Republicans may have seen a victorious 2016, but it looks like I will have to wait until 2018 for a victorious hotdish competition. I am thankful for events like Senator Franken’s hotdish competition to bring all of the Minnesota delegation together.” “Few things are more bipartisan than a delicious Minnesota hotdish, and it’s great to see my friends from the delegation all here,” Rep. Lewis said. “There’s nothing like a taste of home, and the 2nd district’s ‘Wild’ hotdish is possibly the best ever created. My thanks to Senator Franken for organizing this great event.” The other members prepared the following hotdishes: Sen. Franken’s “Potato Pot Roast Potluck Hotdish,” Sen. Klobuchar’s “Minnesota Melting Tot Hotdish,” Rep. McCollum’s “Little Hotdish on the Prairie,” Rep. Walz’s “Prairie Home Hotdish,” Rep. Ellison’s “Solidarity Kugel,” Rep. Paulsen’s “Lake Wobegon Swedish Meatball Shepherd Pie,” Rep. Rick Nolan’s “Spud’s Taco-Nite Hot Dish,” Rep. Emmer’s “Sunday Beer Run and Brat Hotdish,” and Rep. Jason Lewis’ ‘“Minnesota Wild’ Rice and Pheasant Hotdish.” Last year, Rep. Walz took home the trophy with his “Turkey Taco Tot Hotdish,” adding a third title after taking the top prize in 2013 and 2014. In 2015, Rep. McCollum bested the competition with her "Turkey, Sweet Potato, and Wild Rice Hotdish." Rep. In 2012, Sen. Franken's "Mom's Mahnomin Madness Hotdish" and former Rep. Chip Cravaack's (R-Minn.) "Minnesota Wild Strata Hotdish" tied for first place. Sen. Klobuchar took top honors in 2011 with her "Taconite Tater-Tot Hotdish." Participants' recipes can be found here. You can download photos of the event here.
03.03.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson, D-Minn., yesterday joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers to introduce the Consumer and Fuel Retailer Choice Act. The legislation lifts the summertime ban on E15 gasoline, allowing the renewable fuel to be sold year-round. The bill would grant a one-pound per square inch ethanol waiver for applicable Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) limitations for fuel blends containing more than 10 percent ethanol between June 1 and September 15. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) currently prohibits E15 fuel sales in non-flex fuel vehicles during the summer months when most driving occurs due to fuel volatility limits. “This bill is about reducing confusion for retailers and providing more fuel choices for consumers. This RVP fix is a common sense measure that grants the consistent sale of E15 at gas stations, a fuel that has become increasingly popular in Minnesota,” said Congressman Peterson.
03.01.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson today made the following statement following the State of the Union address: "I was glad to hear the President talk about the need for investments in infrastructure and supporting American made products and businesses, which are two areas where we can work together on a bipartisan basis to strengthen our economy. Although there are a lot of questions about the direction the Administration will take on issues important to rural America, I will work with the President wherever possible, as I have done with previous administrations of both parties, on behalf of the constituents of the 7th Congressional District."
03.01.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson today made the following statement after the Trump Administration ordered the EPA to reconsider Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS). “I applaud the Administration for taking actions to stop the Waters of the U.S. rule which would further burden farmers, ranchers and rural businesses. Today’s announcement is the first step needed to bring much needed relief and I will continue to support efforts in Congress to provide certainty for agriculture producers.”
02.27.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.) on Friday led a letter with Senator Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Senator Franken (D-Minn.), and Congressman Richard M. Nolan (D-Minn.) to U.S. Customs and Border Protection to urge the agency to update the technology travelers use to report their arrival into the United States at the United States – Canadian border amid safety concerns. Fishermen and outdoorsmen from around the world visit northern Minnesota and neighboring Manitoba and Ontario provinces every year. When U.S. tourists return from Canada, often during one-day trips, they must identify themselves at an Outlying Area Reporting Station (OARS) site. There are only three OARS sites in the Northwest Angle, for example, and oftentimes tourists must either travel during dangerous, cold winters nights to a OARS site or risk paying a fine. “We want to encourage travelers to visit northern Minnesota where tourism plays a significant role in the local economy. However, the United States’ northern border inspection technology has become outdated and dangerous which could discourage future tourists from visiting areas up north. The United States should be able to implement border inspection technology that identifies travelers efficiently while supporting the economy in the northern region,” said Congressman Peterson. The letter was sent to U.S. Customs and Border Protection Acting Commissioner Kevin McAleenan. It mentions a pilot program that was meant to update OARS inspection technology and asks for further details on possible solutions. Text of the letter is below: Dear Commissioner McAleenan: We are writing to direct your attention to safety concerns with the Outlying Area Reporting Stations (OARS) located in the Northwest Angle of Lake of the Woods County in northern Minnesota. This has become a dangerous situation for locals and tourists and requires an immediate response. The local economy of Lake of the Woods County depends heavily on fishing tourism and its 16 lodging resorts. The region attracts fishermen from around the world. In 2015, $11.8 million was spent on lodging in Lake of the Woods, and this translated to an economic impact of over $80 million, a significant amount of revenue for this rural county. The Northwest Angle is a unique part of the country that cannot be reached by land from the U.S. without passing through an international border crossing at Manitoba, Canada. The U.S.-Canada border runs through the middle of the lake. Once a traveler sets foot on Canadian land, they must report their activities to Canadian authorities. U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) interpret ice as land, so travelers who cross the frozen lake into Canada by snowmobile must also report their arrival. When travelers return to the U.S. after having crossed into Canada, they must report at a U.S. port of entry or check in at the nearest OARS phone. The closest port of entry to the Northwest Angle is nearly two hours away and the closest OARS phone is 16 miles round trip from many of the island resorts. The current system is antiquated and in the winter it can be dangerous. Tourists who visit lodges in Lake of the Woods should not have to jeopardize their safety in order to follow the law. In 2016, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) agreed that the current system needs improvement. Minnesota is not the only state impacted by the outdated OARS system. Other border states like New York, Maine, and Michigan have reported similar problems. However, the Canada Border Services Agency’s border inspection system at the Northwest Angle has been lauded by local resort owners and tourists alike as both seamless and safe We believe that the United States can also use new technology to create a system that protects our border security and is safe and convenient for locals and tourists in the Northwest Angle. We respectfully request a report from DHS on the 2014 Detroit pilot program and viable solutions for how to improve on the pilot program, including safe and efficient alternatives to the OARS system that can be used in places like the Northwest Angle. Using new technology to improve reporting capabilities at the U.S. - Canadian border would significantly improve national security, tourism, and commerce in northern border states. We would appreciate your attention and look forward to working with you to ensure that visitors can safely and efficiently travel to the Northwest Angle.
02.23.2017	Representative Collin C. Peterson, D-Minn. today sent a letter signed by a bipartisan group of Members of Congress to Speaker Paul D. Ryan, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, and Chairman Rob Bishop of the House Committee on Natural Resources to encourage Leadership in the House of Representatives to bring H.R. 424, the Gray Wolf State Management Act of 2017, to the floor for a vote as calving season begins in late winter. “Calving season is a critical period when cows and calves are most vulnerable to gray wolf attacks, and this worry keeps farmers up at night. We hope to soften these fears by encouraging House Leadership to consider my bill to return gray wolf management to the states as soon as possible,” Peterson said. Farmers and ranchers depend heavily on healthy calves to maintain their businesses and livelihoods, so the letter notes that timely consideration of the bill is increasingly important. Reps. Liz Cheney (R-WY), James Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Glenn Grothman(R-WI), Ron Kind (D-WI), Mike Gallagher (R-WI), Tom Emmer (R-MN), and John Moolenaar (R-MI) also signed the letter. Text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. Speaker, We write you today in support of the earliest possible floor consideration of H.R. 424, the Gray Wolf State Management Act of 2017, before calving season begins in late winter. This bill will assist farmers and ranchers in Wisconsin, Minnesota, Michigan, and Wyoming. Calving season is a critical period when cows and calves are most vulnerable to gray wolf attacks. That season could start as early as late January in the upper Midwest. As you know, cows and their calves can easily be worth several thousand dollars, so each instance of a wolf attack has devastating economic impacts on ranchers and their families. Currently, ranchers and farmers have no legal actions available to deal with gray wolf attacks because these predators are federally protected. The Gray Wolf State Management Act would delist gray wolves in the Western Great Lakes states and Wyoming from federal protections and return their management to the states, which the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service had originally intended. Our bill is supported by 15 bipartisan, original cosponsors and 21 agriculture and conservation organizations including the American Farm Bureau Federation and National Farmers Union. We believe this bill can lead as a prime example of bipartisanship working in Congress. We hope you will consider bringing H.R. 424 to the floor as soon as possible to provide relief during calving season. This would bring peace of mind to ranchers who are concerned about protecting their animals and businesses from devastating losses associated with gray wolves.
02.14.2017	(Washington DC) – Congressional Biofuels Caucus Co-chairs Congressman Collin C. Peterson (D-MN), Congressman Rodney Davis (R-IL), Congresswoman Kristi Noem (R-SD), and Congressman Dave Loebsack (D-IA), led Members of Congress in a bipartisan letter to the Trump Administration about the importance of a strong Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). In their letter to President Trump the lawmakers emphasized the economic benefits of the RFS saying, “In 2015 alone, the RFS is directly responsible for creating nearly 86,000 jobs ranging from farms to equipment manufacturers to ethanol production facilities.” The letter encourages the administration to create certainty in the market by continuing its commitment to the RFS. “As a co-chair of the Congressional Biofuels Caucus, it is important to remind the new Administration of its commitment to the Renewable Fuel Standard and how it creates jobs and strengthens rural economies,” Peterson said. “I am pleased with the bipartisan support for this letter and will continue to fight for a robust Renewable Fuel Standard in the years to come.” “A strong RFS is extremely important to our nation's economy,” Davis said. “The RFS is crucial to supporting jobs across rural America and in other parts of our country. I look forward to working with the new administration to ensure we maintain a strong RFS.” “With advances in technology, we are growing more on fewer acres and using that efficiency to diversify the market,” Noem said. “Through the RFS, we can make sure American-grown fuels have a place in our energy supply and give farmers and ranchers the opportunity to contribute to greater energy independence.” “The RFS is more than just a number. It represents the hard work Iowa’s farmers and rural communities put into creating a fuel source for the future that also decreases our dependence on foreign oil.” Loebsack said. “As the co-chair of the Congressional Biofuels Caucus, I am proud to help lead the fight for a strong RFS and have worked to highlight its importance to Iowa. I look forward to working with my colleagues, the EPA, and new administration to ensure the RFS remains strong for our country, for our economy, and for Iowa.” Letter’s language: Dear President Trump: As members of the Congressional Biofuels Caucus, we write you today to urge your administration to continue to support a strong Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). This is an important policy that creates jobs in rural America, boosts economic growth, and lowers gas prices nationwide. As you know, communities in rural America depend on agriculture and manufacturing jobs for employment. The RFS supports 400,000 of these jobs across the nation. In 2015 alone, the RFS is directly responsible for creating nearly 86,000 jobs ranging from farms to equipment manufactures to ethanol production facilities. There is no doubt that rural Americans and their families benefit from the economic expansion and jobs created by the RFS. In 2015, the RFS added $44 billion in economic activity. This is felt throughout greater America as farmers produce larger harvests to meet fuel demand. In turn, equipment manufacturers produce more efficient farm machinery, and truckers are relied on to move products. Engineers at ethanol and biodiesel facilities across the nation produce the most cost-effective biofuels in the world, lowering gas prices for all Americans and bringing high-paying jobs to rural areas. In fact, biofuels play a major role in the reduction of gas prices. The biofuels production capabilities of our nation are extraordinarily efficient. Studies show that ethanol can reduce gas prices by as much as $1.00 per gallon. With ethanol blended in 97% of gasoline, it is helping consumers save money virtually every time they fill up. A strong and continued RFS can reduce gas prices even further. We encourage your administration to engage with the Congressional Biofuels Caucus to generate strategies that ensure the RFS remains strong. Continued commitments to this biofuels policy will create certainty and lead to additional jobs in rural America, enhanced economic growth, and help keep gas prices low. We look forward to working with you in the years that follow.
01.31.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson, D-Minn., released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s Executive Order on Immigration: “In the past I have supported increased vetting of those wishing to enter our country. That said, I have reservations with how the Administration has gone about this process with a broad stroke of the pen, instead of working with Congress to ensure a dialogue and getting to a sensible solution that protects Americans at home and our troops abroad while maintaining our core values and respect for Constitutional rights.”
01.13.2017	Congressman Collin C. Peterson, D-Minn., today made the following remarks on the floor of the House in support of the Peterson Amendment to the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017 (H.R. 5). Both the amendment and underlying bill were adopted by the House. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Thank you Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the amendment. This amendment will prohibit federal agencies from using taxpayer dollars to advocate on behalf of a rule or generate comments to overwhelm the record with one point of view. “A GAO report documents how the EPA created a campaign to generate comments in support of the Waters of the U.S., or WOTUS, rule. This is not how government, or the rulemaking process, is supposed to work. “The comment period should be a time for agencies to hear from the public about what’s good, what’s bad or what needs to be fixed with a proposed rule. In my opinion, agencies too often take laws passed by Congress and turn them into something unrecognizable. “That is why this amendment is needed and has the support of the American Farm Bureau Federation, the National Association of Wheat Growers and the National Association of Home Builders, among others. “This is a common-sense amendment that will improve the bill. I urge my colleagues to vote in support and reserve the balance of my time.”
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON – Representatives Collin Peterson, D-Minn., and Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., today introduced the Relief from New Source Performance Standards Act of 2017, legislation that would delay emission standards for new residential wood and pellet stoves, hydronic heaters and forced-air furnaces by three years. “Wood stove manufacturers and consumers simply want to safely and effectively heat their homes during cold winters but further regulations on wood and pellet stoves will make this more difficult. This bipartisan bill will provide the time necessary to meet new requirements without penalizing manufacturers as they seek to make improvements for consumers using these stoves,” Peterson said. “Affordable heating solutions are important to many of my constituents, and federal regulations must take into account the real world needs and time constraints of industries, like wood stove manufacturers, that make these products. This bill is a simple one – it gives wood stove manufacturers the time they need to comply with federal regulations and develop new technologies. I’m pleased to join Rep. Peterson in introducing this bipartisan bill,” said Goodlatte. The legislation follows a March 2015 EPA rule requiring a significant reduction of particulate matter in wood heater emissions through a two-step process. While there is broad support for the first step, the second step forces further restrictions within an unworkable timeframe. Delaying this second requirement to May 15, 2023 will provide manufacturers the time needed to make the technological advancements in new, efficient wood stoves. Reps. Jason Smith, R, Mo., Billy Long, R-Mo., Jason Lewis, R-Minn., Tom Emmer, R-Minn., James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., and Ron Kind, D-Wis., are original cosponsors.
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON – Representatives Collin C. Peterson, D-Minn., Sean Duffy, R-Wis., and Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., today introduced legislation that would return management of the Western Great Lakes and Wyoming gray wolves to state control. Management of these gray wolves was transferred from the state to the federal level following two 2014 U.S. District Court decisions that reinstated gray wolves under the protections of the Endangered Species Act. These designations leave farmers and ranchers in those states without a legal avenue to protect their livestock from problem wolves. “Choosing between protecting their livelihood or complying with a federal judicial decision is a choice no farmer should have to make. The gray wolf population should be managed by the states, where it belongs. This is practical, bipartisan legislation that balances safety with gray wolf management,” Peterson said. “Judicial activism has caused a multitude of problems in our nation, and a Washington judge claiming to know what’s best for Wisconsin’s ecosystem is another egregious example. In Wisconsin, we cherish our wildlife and work diligently to conserve our natural resources, but the Endangered Species Act has allowed courts to misuse judicial oversight to stop science-based wildlife management from moving forward to delist the gray wolf. Wisconsin farmers deserve to be able to protect their livestock from gray wolves, and we will protect Wisconsin farmers from activist judges,” Duffy said. “Wyoming should be able to manage the gray wolf without outside interference. This bill will stop the "management by litigation" culture that has done so much damage to our state. This bill instructs the Fish and Wildlife Service to delist and prohibits judicial review of that determination. Wyoming will once again be able to manage the gray wolf population in a way that serves the best interests of the citizens of our state,” Cheney said. In December 2011, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service issued a final rule to delist Western Great Lakes gray wolves from federal protections. This decision was based on strong evidence that gray wolf population numbers had adequately recovered and states demonstrated suitable management plans to provide for the long-term conservation of a viable gray wolf population. The conservation agency made a similar determination for Wyoming gray wolves in September 2012. Reps. Richard Nolan, D-Minn., Tom Emmer, R-Minn., Raul Labrador, R-Idaho, Jim Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., Mike Simpson, R-Idaho, Bill Huizenga, R-Mich., Mike Gallagher, R-Wis., Ron Kind, D-Wis., John Moolenaar, R-Mich., Tim Walberg, R-Mich., Glenn Grothman, R-Wis., and Jack Bergman, R-Mich., are original cosponsors.
11.18.2016	The Great Northern Transmission Line will help provide Minnesota electric customers access to reasonably priced, clean, renewable energy Last year, Klobuchar, Franken, Peterson, and Nolan urged support for the project in a letter to Secretary Moniz and in September, the lawmakers sent another letter to Moniz urging a timely review of the project WASHINGTON, DC – Following efforts from U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson Rick Nolan, today the U.S. Department of Energy gave federal approval to Minnesota Power’s Great Northern Transmission Line, a 220-mile electric transmission line that will cross the U.S.-Canada border between Minnesota and Manitoba and help provide Minnesota electric customers access to reasonably priced, clean, renewable energy. Last year, Klobuchar, Franken, Peterson, and Nolan urged support for the project in a letter to Secretary Moniz. In September, the lawmakers sent another letter to Moniz urging a timely review of the project. “The federal approval of the Great Northern Transmission Line is good news for our economy and our environment,” said Klobuchar. “Now that this important project can move forward, more Minnesota households and businesses will have access to clean and renewable power.” “The Great Northern Transmission line with help bring more affordable and reliable renewable energy to northern Minnesota families and businesses,” said Franken. “I’m pleased that the federal government has approved this important project to move forward in our state.” “This is an important step to providing more Minnesotans with reliable, affordable, renewable energy,” Peterson said. “The Great Northern Transmission Line has broad support from state, local and tribal governments and I am pleased that today’s approval will allow Minnesota Power to move ahead with planned construction.” “This is an important project for securing the availability of affordable, renewable electricity in northeastern Minnesota – especially for residential consumers, as well as our mining, manufacturing, timber and tourism industries,” Nolan said. “I am very pleased the project's final stage of review has crossed over the finish line, just in time for the winter construction season. The Great Northern Transmission Line enjoys broad stakeholder support, including local tribes, and has positive energy security and environmental implications for northeastern Minnesota, the Nation, and North America. I especially want to thank Secretary Moniz for his work and responsiveness to our recent request for a timely resolution." The letter to Secretary Moniz from September is below. Dear Secretary Moniz: We write to urge your timely review of the Department of Energy's (DOE) processing and issuance of the Presidential permit necessary for the Great Northern Transmission Line's (GNTL) border crossing with Canada. We have written to you in the past on the project 's successful international collaboration between Canada and the United States, as well as the cooperation between DOE and state and local stakeholders. These efforts were noted by the Administration as a model for how other projects such as these should undertake stakeholder collaboration. Furthermore, we have been encouraged by the Administration's citation of the merits of the GNTL itself on several occasions. Given the public support and collaboration between DOE, state regulators and other stakeholders, the project sponsor's expectation was that DOE's internal review and engagement with other federal agencies should have been well underway by the time the state route permit was issued in February by the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission. Unfortunately, it appears DOE's Presidential permit process did not run entirely in parallel with the state approval process, causing delays. The ideal construction period for the project is in the winter, since work over sensitive wetlands is best done when the ground is frozen. Failure to make a timely decision on the issuance of the Presidential permit could compromise the project's economics and could jeopardize the project itself. We would appreciate your immediate and personal attention to this matter so that the GNTL, which enjoys broad stakeholder support and has positive energy security and environmental implications for the region, the nation, and North America -can go forward as planned. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely,
11.03.2016	In a letter last month, the federal lawmakers urged the President to issue a major disaster declaration to assist communities that are working hard to recover from significant flood damage WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following an effort from U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and Representatives Collin Peterson, John Kline, Betty McCollum, Tim Walz, Keith Ellison, and Tom Emmer, today the Administration issued a major disaster declaration for the State of Minnesota. This announcement will trigger the release of federal funds for Public Assistance to help communities recover from the severe storms and flooding that occurred in September. In a letter last month, the federal lawmakers urged the President to issue a major disaster declaration to assist communities that are working hard to recover from significant flood damage. “After seeing the devastation firsthand, this announcement today of federal funding for recovery efforts is welcome news for the Minnesota communities impacted by the recent storms and flooding,” said Klobuchar. “I now urge the Administration to swiftly review and make a determination on federal assistance for individual recovery efforts.” “This is good news for the Minnesota communities that were hit hard by flooding,” said Franken. “I’m going to be pressing the Obama Administration to quickly review individual assistance as well because many Minnesotans are still struggling to recover from the storm damage.” “This announcement means Minnesotans affected by natural disasters are one step closer to receiving relief,” Peterson said. “Heavy rains and flooding this September impacted many central and southern Minnesota communities who were still rebuilding from prior flood damage. Today’s declaration is welcome news." “I applaud the Administration’s decision today to provide much needed Public Assistance to Minnesota communities that are working hard to recover from damages resulting from the severe storms and flooding of September,” Walz said. “As folks in these communities continue to reel from the aftermath, I call upon the Administration to expedite its consideration of federal aid for the families who are still in dire need of assistance.” “Like much of the state, tornados and flooding have ripped through the Sixth District,” said Emmer. “These weather events can have incredible effects on our communities and I am pleased Minnesota will receive adequate assistance in this time of need.” The full text of the letter from last month is below: Dear Mr. President: We are writing to you in strong support of the request for a Major Disaster Declaration to assist communities in Minnesota that are working hard to recover from recent rain storms and flooding that have caused significant damage. On September 21 and 22, 2016, torrential rains and flash flooding caused extensive damage to infrastructure and properties across central and southern Minnesota. Many of these areas received up to 10 inches of rain, the majority of which fell over the course of several hours. The Governor of Minnesota has determined that the damage caused by these storms is beyond the capability of our state and local governments to address on their own, and as a result has requested a Presidential Disaster Declaration for Public Assistance in Blue Earth, Fillmore, Freeborn, Goodhue, Houston, Le Sueur, Rice, Steele, and Waseca counties in Minnesota. Additionally, the Governor has requested Individual Household Assistance (IHA) for Blue Earth, Waseca, Steele, and Freeborn Counties due to the loss of furnaces and water heaters in a significant number of homes. Given the degree of damage, we strongly encourage you to issue a disaster declaration in a timely manner, which will allow the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to begin to help impacted communities access federal assistance for debris removal and to repair critical infrastructure. Minnesotans have displayed their resiliency in recovering from disasters in recent years including deadly tornadoes and widespread flooding. Many of these same counties saw significant flood damage in September 2010 and again in the summer of 2014. We are confident that the communities impacted by these storms will also recover and rebuild, but we urge you to make the federal government a full partner in that effort. Thank you for your attention to this request, and we look forward to working with you to assist the recovery efforts in Minnesota. Sincerely,
10.28.2016	Support comes from USDA’s rural energy program to help farmers and rural business owners reduce their costs by providing grants and loan guarantees for renewable energy and energy efficiency projects WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson, Rick Nolan, and Tom Emmer, announced $14,644,054 to help Minnesota farmers lower energy costs and boost renewable energy. The support comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Energy for America Program (REAP). REAP helps farmers and rural business owners reduce their costs by providing grants and loan guarantees for renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. “The Rural Energy for America Program provides Minnesota’s farmers with the ability to make energy-efficiency improvements that help our environment and rural communities,” Klobuchar said. “This critical program helps support our agricultural economy by promoting greater energy savings and boosting renewable energy. That’s why I fought to expand the REAP program in the 2014 Farm Bill.” “One in five Minnesota jobs is tied to agriculture, which is why supporting rural businesses and communities is so important to our state’s overall economic success,” Franken said. “I was proud to help write the energy section of the 2014 Farm Bill, which included strong funding for REAP. In the past several weeks, my office has met with farmers, rural businesses, and community leaders across the state who have saved money and cut their energy use by using REAP, and we also heard how we can improve the program in the next Farm Bill so more producers and rural businesses can benefit. We need to be doing more of this.” “Assisting farmers and rural businesses in their efforts to improve energy efficiency and install renewable energy systems will have a positive impact on the rural economy,” Peterson said. “The REAP program is an important resource for our farmers and small businesses and I will continue to advocate for its inclusion in future farm bills.” “Here in Minnesota’s Eighth District, our rural economy depends on a strong agriculture industry,” Nolan said. “These grants and loan guarantees will support our farmers and rural business owners by helping them reduce costs with renewable energy and energy efficiency projects.” "Creating renewable energy sources here at home not only removes our dependence on foreign sources, but invests in our own nation’s prosperity and its small businesses, which are the engines that fuel our future economic growth," Emmer said. For more information about the grant program and this year’s Minnesota recipients, click here.
10.20.2016	In a letter, the federal lawmakers urged the President to issue a Major Disaster Declaration to assist communities that are working hard to recover from significant flood damage Earlier today, Governor Mark Dayton formally requested federal assistance to help communities rebuild and recover WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and Representatives Collin Peterson, John Kline, Betty McCollum, Tim Walz, Keith Ellison, and Tom Emmer, today urged the Administration to provide federal assistance to Minnesota communities impacted by the devastating flooding that caused extensive damage across much of the state. In a letter, the federal lawmakers urged the President to issue a Major Disaster Declaration to assist communities that are working hard to recover from significant flood damage. Earlier today, Governor Mark Dayton formally requested federal assistance to help communities rebuild and recover. “On September 21 and 22, 2016, torrential rains and flash flooding caused extensive damage to infrastructure and properties across central and southern Minnesota. Many of these areas received up to 10 inches of rain, the majority of which fell over the course of several hours,” the lawmakers wrote. “Many of these same counties saw significant flood damage in September 2010 and again in the summer of 2014. We are confident that the communities impacted by these storms will also recover and rebuild, but we urge you to make the federal government a full partner in that effort.” The full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We are writing to you in strong support of the request for a Major Disaster Declaration to assist communities in Minnesota that are working hard to recover from recent rain storms and flooding that have caused significant damage. On September 21 and 22, 2016, torrential rains and flash flooding caused extensive damage to infrastructure and properties across central and southern Minnesota. Many of these areas received up to 10 inches of rain, the majority of which fell over the course of several hours. The Governor of Minnesota has determined that the damage caused by these storms is beyond the capability of our state and local governments to address on their own, and as a result has requested a Presidential Disaster Declaration for Public Assistance in Blue Earth, Fillmore, Freeborn, Goodhue, Houston, Le Sueur, Rice, Steele, and Waseca counties in Minnesota. Additionally, the Governor has requested Individual Household Assistance (IHA) for Blue Earth, Waseca, Steele, and Freeborn Counties due to the loss of furnaces and water heaters in a significant number of homes. Given the degree of damage, we strongly encourage you to issue a disaster declaration in a timely manner, which will allow the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to begin to help impacted communities access federal assistance for debris removal and to repair critical infrastructure. Minnesotans have displayed their resiliency in recovering from disasters in recent years including deadly tornadoes and widespread flooding. Many of these same counties saw significant flood damage in September 2010 and again in the summer of 2014. We are confident that the communities impacted by these storms will also recover and rebuild, but we urge you to make the federal government a full partner in that effort. Thank you for your attention to this request, and we look forward to working with you to assist the recovery efforts in Minnesota. Sincerely,
10.20.2016	Low farm milk prices have resulted in sharply reduced incomes for U.S. dairy farmers, which is placing our nation’s dairy industry in a vulnerable position; This summer, in a letter to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), Klobuchar, Franken, Peterson, Walz, and Nolan urged the department to use its authority to take action to protect the nation’s dairy farmers from further crisis and aid the expansion and maintenance of domestic farmers To build on support given in August, today the USDA offered to purchase $20 million of cheese for food banks and pantries across the nation to assist families in need through USDA nutrition assistance programs WASHINGTON, DC – Following efforts from U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson, Tim Walz and Rick Nolan, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced new plans to help dairy producers and families in need in 2017. Low milk prices have resulted in sharply reduced incomes for U.S. dairy farmers, which is placing our nation’s dairy industry in a vulnerable position. In July, Klobuchar, Franken, Peterson, Walz, and Nolan urged the department to use its authority to take action to protect the nation’s dairy farmers from further crisis and aid the expansion and maintenance of domestic farmers. To build on support given by the USDA in August, today the USDA announced plans to purchase $20 million of cheese for food banks and pantries across the nation to assist families in need through USDA nutrition assistance programs. “Our prosperity depends on supporting and strengthening farms and rural communities throughout Minnesota and across the country,” Klobuchar said. “After our continued efforts, Minnesota dairy farmers and families will receive the help they need during this time of low prices.” “With one in five Minnesota jobs tied to agriculture, families and communities all across our state rely on a strong farm economy,” Franken said. “But for the past several years, dairy producers in Minnesota and across the country have been hit hard by the perfect storm of low prices, increased U.S. milk production, and changing markets abroad. We called for federal support to help Minnesota’s dairy producers make it through these tough times, and I’m glad to see that USDA has responded with this important step.” “This is a good step that will hopefully provide some short-term relief to dairy farmers facing difficult market conditions,” Peterson said. “To ensure stability in the dairy industry we need to take a close look and improve on the dairy safety net. I will continue to work closely with my colleagues and dairy farmers to provide a long-term solution.” “Our producers feed the world and we have a responsibility to help them during challenging times,” Walz said. “I am pleased USDA is making this investment, not only in our producers, but also in our communities. As we move forward, our work to strengthen the safety net is vital to our economy” “This is wonderful news for our dairy farmers and families in need. I’m pleased that the USDA has heeded our call and taken this initial step to support our dairy industry,” Nolan said. “Agriculture is a critical job-creating industry in Minnesota. It is imperative to the health of our economy that we support our farmers during this difficult period of declining milk prices.” Dear Secretary Vilsack: We write today to express our concern about the troubling economic challenges facing U.S. dairy farmers and the entire U.S. dairy industry. We have seen farm milk prices drop forty percent since 2014 and in May the nation’s cheese stocks were recorded at their highest level since the data was first recorded in 1917. Current expectations are that the dairy market will continue to struggle with depressed prices and we seek your help as we search for ways to swiftly assist our nation’s struggling dairy farmers. Our dairy farmers have been hit extremely hard by low farm milk prices that have resulted in sharply reduced incomes, which is placing our nation’s dairy industry in an extremely vulnerable position. A number of factors have contributed to this crisis. U.S. milk production has increased almost two percent above last year’s level, while global milk production is up significantly, partly as a result of the European Union’s decision to remove its milk production quotas and the loss of their export market to Russia. Furthermore, we are seeing an increase in production in other major milk-producing countries that have led to these depressed prices globally. All of this comes as our dairy farmers are still adjusting to the new Farm Bill, and the many changes that were made to our dairy support programs. We are deeply concerned that U.S. dairy farmers, who are a key part of our agriculture community and agriculture economy, are in greater need of stability and support as they face these significantly lower prices, which for some are below their actual cost of production. As this industry is reeling from low prices, a glut of imports, challenges in our export markets, and poor economic growth projections we urge the USDA to use its secretarial authority under the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714c), Section 32 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), and look to past precedent for how to take action to protect all of our nation’s dairy farmers from further crisis and to aid in the expansion and maintenance of domestic markets. We encourage USDA to take any and all actions available in order to make an immediate market injection and offer financial assistance that will directly support U.S. dairy farmers equally, while being cautious to not stimulate overproduction further. The family business of dairy farming has long been woven into our nation’s agricultural history. Across the country, in all 50 states, dairy farms large and small are economic drivers providing local jobs and local products. During the 2009 dairy collapse, we saw far too many families have to sell off their cows and close the doors for good. Through the support of USDA, we can hopefully prevent many farms from needing to make that same difficult decision today and we hope you will work to support all of our dairy farmers across the country. We look forward to working closely with you in determining the best course of action to take in managing the current dairy industry financial crisis. Thank you for taking the time to address this important matter. Sincerely,
10.20.2016	Following the ice storms that struck southwest Minnesota in April of 2013, Nobles Cooperative Electric applied for financial assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to cover the cost of damage to power lines and poles in Nobles County; FEMA denied their request based on recordkeeping requirements Last February, Klobuchar, Franken, Peterson, and Walz sent a letter to FEMA Administrator Fugate to review discrepancies in the distribution of disaster assistance to rural electric cooperatives for damages from the severe weather in April of 2013 in the Upper Midwest WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz, have announced $2,140,754 in federal funding to repair electrical utilities damaged in southwest Minnesota during the Severe Winter Storm of 2013. Following the ice storms that struck southwest Minnesota in April of 2013, Nobles Cooperative Electric applied for financial assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to cover the cost of damage to power lines and poles. FEMA denied their request based on recordkeeping requirements. Last February, Klobuchar, Franken, Peterson, and Walz sent a letter to FEMA Administrator Fugate to review discrepancies in the distribution of disaster assistance to rural electric cooperatives for damages from the severe weather in April of 2013 in the Upper Midwest. “Communities and businesses across Minnesota count on electric cooperatives for reliable energy. However, when a crippling winter storm hit our state in 2013, a few of these co-ops were denied the financial assistance they needed to recover,” Klobuchar said. “That’s why I worked to ensure that FEMA remained engaged until we reached a favorable outcome for Nobles Cooperative Electric’s appeal for assistance. This funding will help the co-op make important repairs to be able to continue to provide affordable, efficient energy.” “When natural disaster strikes, Minnesota communities are prepared for the worst and ready to respond to damage,” Franken said. “But after severe winter storms hit southwest Minnesota in 2013, some of our rural electric co-ops were blocked from accessing federal disaster funds to replace power lines and poles. We pushed back, and after demanding action from FEMA, I’m glad to see that Nobles Cooperative will be receiving new funding to make important repairs and keep their electrical infrastructure top notch.” “The strength of Minnesota’s economy relies, in large part, on the success of our electric cooperatives and their ability to provide the state with reliable and affordable energy,” Peterson said. “These funds will finally reimburse Nobles Cooperative Electric for the repairs necessary to fix storm-related damage, allowing them to continue to meet their customer’s energy needs.” “When storms hit communities in southwest Minnesota in 2013, we knew folks would need assistance to repair the damage,” Walz said. “After being denied once, we asked FEMA to take a second look and I am pleased they will provide assistance to repair electrical utilities so that Nobles County can continue their work to provide energy to the community.” The full text of the lawmakers’ 2015 letter is below: Dear Administrator Fugate: We write to express our concern regarding denied disaster assistance applications submitted by two Minnesota electric cooperatives following severe ice storms in southwest Minnesota April 9-13, 2013. Following President Obama’s disaster declaration in southwest Minnesota in the spring of 2013, Nobles Cooperative Electric and Federated Rural Electric Association applied for financial assistance from the FEMA Region V office to help rebuild their systems. Nobles Cooperative Electric lost more than 1,500 poles and 3,000 farmers and homes in Nobles and Murray County were left without power for days. More than 2,000 homes were left without power in Jackson County, which is serviced by Federated Rural Electric. Unfortunately, both of their requests have been denied or in a lengthy process of information gathering without resolution. We have heard concerns from the 44 Minnesota electric cooperatives about Region V’s decision to deny the applications. They include arbitrary policy changes without adequate notification or stakeholder participation, contradictions with previous policy provisions, shifting rationales for the denials, and inconsistent application of FEMA disaster assistance as compared to other regions. We are particularly concerned that Federated and Nobles, along with a number of electric cooperatives in Iowa, are being treated differently than other electric cooperatives or municipal utilities in the United States with respect to the re-conductoring of their systems. For example, in Region VI, electric cooperatives obtained FEMA approval to rebuild 1,200 lines of overhead lines which were damaged from a tornado that occurred at about the same time as the ice storm that did so much damage in Minnesota and Iowa. In Region VIII, Grand Electric Cooperative in South Dakota was awarded more than $20 million for damages caused by the October 2013 blizzard. In addition, FEMA announced in January that it would provide more than $4.2 million in aid to North Dakota cooperatives for damage from the same blizzard. As you are well aware, electric cooperatives play a unique and important economic role in Minnesota, providing electricity to the 85 percent of the state that didn’t have access to affordable and reliable electricity until the co-ops came into existence. Throughout their history, electric cooperatives in Minnesota have relied on a partnership with the federal government to provide this vital service in the state. We ask that you review these concerns over discrepancies in the distribution of disaster assistance to rural electric cooperatives for damages from the severe weather in April of 2013 in the Upper Midwest. We look forward to working with you on this important issue. Sincerely,
09.23.2016	Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced a $55,000 investment to assist Fergus Falls in planning for future changes associated with Otter Tail Power Company’s Hoot Lake Power Plant closure scheduled for 2021. “This investment will allow the City of Fergus Falls and its partners to study the financial, environmental and land use impacts of the plant closure,” Peterson said. “These studies, which cover a large geographic footprint, will help the City and other stakeholders partner with the utility as it identifies mutually beneficial development opportunities for the plant site, which sits within the larger footprint.” "Fergus Falls appreciates the support from Representative Peterson, along with the many others, who helped secure the funding,” said Amy Baldwin, Executive Director of the Fergus Falls Economic Improvement Commission. “These planning activities will help ensure that Fergus Falls is prepared for coming changes.” The funding was made available through the Partnership for Opportunity and Workforce and Economic Revitalization (POWER) Initiative, administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration. In August, Peterson sent a letter to the Commerce Department in support of the Fergus Falls application.
09.23.2016	Congressman Collin C. Peterson today received the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) Guardian of Small Business Award for the 114th Congress. This award is given to members of Congress for their support of America’s small business owners. “Starting and successfully running a small business can be incredibly challenging, especially in today’s economy,” Peterson said. “I believe it is important to support our small businesses, their employees and the benefits they provide to our local communities.” “Many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but our Guardian Award shows our members and other small business owners who is really fighting for them,” NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan said. “Based on his voting record, Rep. Peterson is one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington.” The Guardian of Small Business is NFIB’s most prestigious award. It is reserved for lawmakers who vote consistently with NFIB on the key issues identified by small business owners. NFIB tracks the votes of every member of Congress. House members and Senators who vote with NFIB members at least 70 percent of the time are eligible for the Guardian Award. Peterson received an 86 voting record during the 114th Congress.
09.23.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded the Lac qui Parle County Airport a grant of $98,396 for infrastructure improvements. “The funds from this grant will help the Lac qui Parle County Airport make critical investments in its infrastructure,” Klobuchar said. “Investing in our airports will boost performance, enhance safety, and help support good local jobs.” "Upgrading our airport infrastructure creates jobs and improves safety," Franken said. “This new funding for Lac qui Parle County Airport will benefit travelers and strengthen the regional economy." "Strong and safe regional airports are a connection between the region and other areas of the country," Peterson said. "This grant will provide Lac qui Parle County Airport with resources to improve existing infrastructure and continue to meet the region's transportation needs." This grant will allow the airport to fund repairs of the taxiway, runway, and apron.
09.23.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Detroit Lakes – Wething Field Airport a grant of $3,891,125 for infrastructure improvements. “Critical investments in our infrastructure help create good jobs while enhancing public safety,” Klobuchar said. “By investing in the Detroit Lakes Airport, we are making an important down payment on the economy of the region.” "This funding will increase safety for travelers at Detroit Lakes Airport and create jobs," Franken said. "I'm glad that the Transportation Department is making this vital investment in Northwest Minnesota.” "Safe air travel is an essential part of the region's economic strength," Peterson said. "This grant will allow the Detroit Lakes Airport to improve existing infrastructure and safely meet the region's air travel needs." This grant will allow the airport to construct a runway safety area.
09.23.2016	On September 14th, the Minnesota delegation introduced a resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the life of Jacob Wetterling and the efforts by Patty Wetterling and the Wetterling family for finding abducted children and supporting their families. “The disappearance of Jacob Wetterling in October of 1989 shattered the innocence of families across Minnesota and the country,” the lawmakers wrote. “As parents, we all held out hope with the Wetterling family over the past 27 years and we grieved with them after Jacob was found. Patty Wetterling and her family have been pillars of strength through a dark time in our state, and their efforts are absolutely commended. Through their tragedy, the Wetterlings have worked tirelessly to prevent child exploitation and abductions across the United States so that other parents don’t have to go through what they have over the past 27 years.” Senators Klobuchar and Franken introduced this resolution in the U.S. Senate earlier this week. The full text of the House resolution can be found here.
09.23.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Chandler Field Airport in Alexandria a grant of $1,517,745 for infrastructure improvements. “These critical investments in our infrastructure help create good jobs while enhancing public safety,” Klobuchar said. “This award will greatly benefit all who travel through Chandler Field Airport.” "Making critical upgrades to our airport infrastructure improves traveler safety and creates jobs," Franken said. “I’m pleased that Chandler Field Airport will receive this new funding, which will help spur economic development in Alexandria and throughout the region." “As a pilot, I understand the importance of strong, regional airports,” Peterson said. “Through this grant, Chandler Field will be able to make important infrastructure improvements to keep air travel safe, helping to boost the local economy and meet the area’s transportation needs.” This grant will allow the airport to rehabilitate its apron, runway, and taxiway.
09.14.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded the City of Echo a loan of $1,162,000 and a grant of $1,121,000 for water and wastewater improvements. The funds will be used to assist in providing necessary improvements to their sanitary sewer collection lines, water distribution system, and water tower. “Investing in public health not only creates job but it also lays the groundwork for economic growth,” Klobuchar said. “This investment will benefit the citizens of Echo for years to come.” “Upgrading our infrastructure strengthens our economy and improves public health,” Franken said. “And that’s especially true for our communities in Greater Minnesota. This year, during my 'Rural Infrastructure Listening Tour,’ I’ve heard from rural communities across Minnesota about the need to invest in improvements to water and wastewater systems. I'm pleased that Echo will receive this new support to do just that.” “Investing in our communities ensures they stay strong for years to come,” Peterson said. “This funding will provide Echo with the necessary resources to make important infrastructure improvements that will benefit the local community.” This investment is made through USDA Rural Development’s Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant Program, which provides assistance and financing to develop drinking water and waste disposal systems for communities with 10,000 or fewer residents.
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded the City of Dalton a loan of $1,915,000 and a grant of $421,000 for water and sewer improvements. The funding will be used to make repairs to the wastewater plant and water and wastewater line replacement. “Investing in our infrastructure creates job and aids in economic growth,” Klobuchar said. “This investment will help promote the health and wellness of people across Dalton.” “Upgrading our infrastructure is critical for the public health of our communities, and for making sure they can compete economically,” Franken said. “And that’s especially true for rural communities in Minnesota and across the country. This year, during my 'Rural Infrastructure Listening Tour' of our state, I’ve heard from many rural communities about the infrastructure improvements they need. I'm pleased that Dalton will receive this new funding to make some of those upgrades by strengthening their water and sewer systems.” “Safe, clean water is important to keeping our rural communities vibrant,” Peterson said. “This funding will help Dalton make important infrastructure improvements, helping to drive economic growth.” This investment is made through USDA Rural Development’s Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant Program, which provides assistance and financing to develop drinking water and waste disposal systems for communities with 10,000 or fewer residents.
09.14.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded the City of Brownton a loan of $5,309,000 and a grant of $724,000 for water, sewer, and storm systems improvements. “Investing in our water and waste infrastructure is a down payment on the long-term well-being of our communities,” Klobuchar said. “This investment will benefit the people and businesses of Brownton.” “Upgrading our rural infrastructure strengthens our economy and improves public health,” Franken said. “And this year, during my 'Rural Infrastructure Listening Tour' of Minnesota, I’ve heard from many rural communities about the infrastructure improvements they need. I'm pleased that Brownton will receive this new support to strengthen their water, sewer, and storm systems.” “This funding will help Brownton make important infrastructure improvements,” Peterson said. “This will ensure the city’s residents continued access to safe drinking water.” This investment is made through USDA Rural Development’s Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant Program, which provides assistance and financing to develop drinking water and waste disposal systems for communities with 10,000 or fewer residents.
09.14.2016	In a bipartisan letter to Secretary of State Kerry and Secretary of Commerce Pritzker, Minnesota lawmakers highlight state’s innovative economy, welcoming community, and accomplishments in promoting health and wellness WASHINGTON, DC –Today, the Minnesota congressional delegation urged support for Minnesota’s bid to host the 2023 World’s Fair. In a bipartisan letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker, the Minnesota lawmakers highlighted the state’s innovative economy, welcoming community, and many accomplishments in promoting health and wellness. “Minnesota’s Expo 2023 is a strong candidate to host the World’s Fair,” the lawmakers wrote. “It will foster an exchange of ideas, encourage new global partnerships and advance innovation in health and wellness that will benefit the state, country and world. We urge full and fair consideration of a recommendation that the bid is in the national interest.” The full text of the letter, which was signed by Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, John Kline, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, Rick Nolan, Erik Paulsen, and Tom Emmer, is below: Dear Secretary Kerry and Secretary Pritzker: We write in support of Minnesota’s bid to host the World’s Fair in 2023. Hosting the World’s Fair in the United States for the first time since 1984 will strengthen U.S. economic leadership around the world. As a global leader in health, the theme of “Wellness and Well-Being for All” will highlight Minnesota’s many accomplishments in promoting health and wellness. Minnesota is home to a welcoming community and an innovative economy. Every year we host hundreds of thousands of international visitors who come as students, patients, tourists, or on business. These global ties help to fuel our economic growth. Minnesota has a strong history of innovation. Our universities and companies are constantly bringing new products and services to the market which help people live healthier lives. Of all the states, Minnesota has the second most Fortune 500 companies per capita and the Minneapolis-Saint Paul region offers many exciting opportunities to showcase the creative work these companies are doing that drives our economy forward. Minnesota’s leading institutions have come together to ensure that visitors will experience firsthand our history, culture and recreational activities. The robust transportation network will easily bring people to and from our venues, including the University of Minnesota, State Fair Grounds, stadiums and parks throughout the region. Visitors from across the globe will have a unique chance to explore our state’s accomplishments in health, medicine, and wellness. Minnesota’s Expo 2023 is a strong candidate to host the World’s Fair. It will foster an exchange of ideas, encourage new global partnerships and advance innovation in health and wellness that will benefit the state, country and world. We urge full and fair consideration of a recommendation that the bid is in the national interest. We thank you for considering this request and look forward to working with you. Sincerely,
09.07.2016	In May, Minnesota lawmakers sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary Foxx highlighting the importance of access to growing Asian markets for Minnesota businesses and travelers and urging Department of Transportation (DOT) to consider Delta Air Lines’ application for service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and MSP DOT announced this week it has finalized decision for nonstop service between Haneda Airport and MSP WASHINGTON, DC –Following efforts from the Minnesota congressional delegation, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) announced it has finalized a decision to grant nonstop service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). In May, the Minnesota lawmakers sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary Foxx highlighting the importance of access to the growing Asian markets for Minnesota businesses and travelers, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in Minnesota, and urged DOT to consider Delta Air Lines’ application for service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and MSP. “As chair of the Senate Travel and Tourism Caucus, I know how important travel and tourism are to the economy of Minnesota,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar. “Access to the growing Asian markets are particularly important to Minnesota businesses, and why I led efforts with my Minnesota colleagues to ensure that our state continues to have direct access to Asia. This finalized announcement that MSP and Tokyo’s more convenient Haneda Airport will be connected by nonstop flights is great news for Minnesota’s economy and those traveling to and from our state.” “Businesses and families in Minnesota rely on MSP, which is a vital hub for our state economy and for travel,” said Senator Al Franken. “We worked together in a bipartisan way to open Haneda Airport to nonstop service between Tokyo and Minnesota because it will help promote job growth and expand travel opportunities. This is good news for Minnesota." “Through this final announcement, Minnesota and Tokyo will be directly linked,” said Representative Collin Peterson. “This new service will better connect Minnesota businesses with those in Tokyo and provide new opportunities for growth in Minnesota.” “The Department of Transportation's decision to finalize nonstop service between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport is great news for our Twin Cities region,” said Representative Betty McCollum. “This essential airline service will help forge even stronger connections between Minnesota and Japan, particularly Minnesota businesses that are working to succeed in Asian markets.” "The jobs and business commerce this new Delta route produces will benefit Minnesota's Eighth District and our entire state. It's a major win for Minnesota," Nolan said. “A direct route to Haneda airport will provide more convenient access to Asia, strengthen trade relations, and lead to more economic growth and exciting opportunities for Minnesota businesses, which are some of the most innovative and enterprising in the world,” said Representative Erik Paulsen. “I’m very proud to see this bipartisan effort yield such a positive result for Minnesota businesses and jobs.” “Trade and travel are critical to Minnesota’s economy and securing daytime slots from MSP to Haneda ensures that Minnesota businesses will remain at the forefront of the global economy,” said Representative Tom Emmer. “I’m proud to have worked so closely with the entire delegation advocating for our Minnesota companies and workers.” The full text of the letter the lawmakers sent in May is below: Dear Secretary Foxx: We write to urge full and fair consideration of Delta Air Lines’ application for a daytime slot pair allowing for service between Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). Earlier this year, we wrote to express our concern that a limited opening of Haneda Airport could make the current route between MSP and Narita International Airport economically unsustainable. We noted that the MSP to Narita route is the only direct flight between Minnesota and Asia. Given the new bilateral aviation agreement with Japan, allowing service between MSP and Haneda is now imperative to maintaining Minnesota’s connection to Asia. Access to growing Asian markets is particularly important to Minnesota businesses, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in our state. In 2015 employees from just 25 businesses in Minnesota took more than 10,000 flights from Minneapolis/St. Paul to Tokyo. Minnesota competes to attract businesses by creating a positive business climate based on good governance, a strong workforce and world-class infrastructure. Losing the only nonstop flight connection to Asia would damage Minnesota’s competitiveness. Delta’s proposal to use MSP as a hub to connect 114 U.S. cities to Haneda will have benefits in Minnesota and beyond. Many Midwestern communities will also benefit from shorter flight times compared to alternative hubs. In addition, the connecting traffic will strengthen MSP as an international hub and leverage the existing transportation infrastructure and vibrant aviation sector in the Twin Cities. Ensuring Minnesota receives a new daytime slot pair is also essential for maintaining a competitive balance in the transpacific market. Currently, robust competition among three global alliances facilitates consumer choice and puts downward pressure on airfares. The limited opening of Haneda Airport has the potential to upset this balance as American Airlines and United Airlines currently control 79 percent of the global Haneda Airport market in conjunction with their Japanese partner airlines. Thank you for your attention to our views. We look forward to working with you on this important issue.
08.30.2016	A diverse array of entities in Minnesota, such as port authorities, are currently authorized to sell tax-exempt bonds to fund projects that contribute significantly to communities; An Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rule proposal could halt funding for these projects In a letter to the Treasury Department and the IRS, Klobuchar, Franken, and members of the Minnesota congressional delegation called on the agency to ensure that any new rule does not harm the ability of Minnesota’s political subdivisions to provide vital community services WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson, John Kline, Tim Walz, Erik Paulsen, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Rick Nolan, and Tom Emmer, have urged the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to carefully consider the potential impact of a proposed rule that could prevent port authorities and other political subdivisions from issuing tax-exempt bonds, a key financing tool for major projects. A diverse array of entities in Minnesota that currently qualify as political subdivisions, including certain port authorities, housing and redevelopment authorities, and economic development authorities, are currently allowed to sell tax-exempt bonds to fund critical local projects. The proposed IRS rule would change the definition of political subdivision in a way that could exclude certain Minnesota entities and stop them from using tax-exempt financing for major projects. In a letter to the Treasury Department and the IRS, Klobuchar, Franken, and members of the Minnesota congressional delegation called on the agency to ensure that changes to current policy do not harm public bodies that provide vital community services. “We urge you to consider the concerns raised by a number of Minnesota entities that may be harmed by the Internal Revenue Service’s proposed rule on the definition of political subdivision. While we recognize your concern about certain entities that may be unfairly taking advantage of the current definition of political subdivision for private gain, we believe that it’s critical to ensure that changes to current policy do not harm public bodies that provide vital community services,” the lawmakers wrote. “Unfortunately, if the proposed rule were adopted without change, some of them could lose their status as political subdivisions, threatening the critical public work of these entities. We hope you will closely consider the potential impact of your proposed rule and ensure that it does not limit the ability of public entities in Minnesota from providing important community services.” The full text of the Minnesota congressional delegation’s letter is below: Dear Secretary Lew and Commissioner Koskinen: We urge you to consider the concerns raised by a number of Minnesota entities that may be harmed by the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) proposed rule on the definition of political subdivision. While we recognize your concern about certain entities that may be unfairly taking advantage of the current definition of political subdivision for private gain, we believe that it’s critical to ensure that changes to current policy do not harm public bodies that provide vital community services. Minnesota features a diverse array of entities authorized under state and local law to sell tax-exempt bonds and fund public projects. These entities include port authorities, housing and redevelopment authorities, and others that contribute significantly to our Minnesota community. Many of these entities currently qualify as political subdivisions, which allows them to issue tax-exempt bonds. We believe these widely respected entities should continue to be able to use tax-exempt bonds to appropriately further their missions. Unfortunately, if the proposed rule were adopted without change, some of them could lose their status as political subdivisions, threatening the critical public work of these entities. Two aspects of the rule deserve particular scrutiny. First, the proposed rule would only allow an entity to qualify as a political subdivision if it engages in activities with no more than an “incidental private benefit.” If adopted as proposed, some Minnesota entities are concerned that this provision could stop some entities from using tax-exempt financing for widely supported economic development activities. Second, the proposed rule contains unclear provisions on the level of control elected officials or voters must have of a political subdivision. As a result, a number of Minnesota political subdivisions believe this provision could unfairly bar some transparent, accountable entities from using tax-exempt bonds to support critical local projects. We hope you will closely consider the potential impact of your proposed rule and ensure that it does not limit the ability of public entities in Minnesota from providing important community services. Thank you for considering these concerns and others expressed in the comment process by Minnesota’s political subdivisions and their community partners. Sincerely,
08.26.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Hallock Municipal Airport a grant of $243,021 for infrastructure improvements. “Helping ensure our airports stay up-to-date makes for a commonsense investment,” Klobuchar said. “This support reflects a continued commitment to safety for all travelers to and from the Hallock Municipal Airport.” “Strong investments in infrastructure lead to strong regional economies,” Franken said. “Investing in the Hallock Municipal Airport is a great example of how we can improve transportation and safety for travelers while creating and maintaining good jobs for Minnesotans.” “This grant will prove the necessary resources for Hallock Municipal Airport to make important infrastructure improvements,” Peterson said. “These improvements will keep regional air travel safe and benefit the local economy.” This grant will fund the first phase of a project to construct a T-hangar building and taxi lane and install precision approach path indicators and runway end identifier lights.
08.26.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Fergus Falls Municipal-Einar Mickelson Field Airport a grant of $632,736 for infrastructure improvements. “Improvements to our infrastructure strengthen Minnesota’s economy by helping create good jobs and boosting business and travel,” Klobuchar said. “The Fergus Falls region will benefit from today’s investment.” “These upgrades will improve safety and support the economic health of the Fergus Falls region,” Franken said. “I’m glad that this Transportation Department grant will allow the facility to keep serving our state and visitors to Minnesota." “As a pilot, I know firsthand how Minnesota’s snowy winters can impact air travel,” Peterson said. “The new snow removal equipment made possible through this grant will help the Fergus Falls Municipal-Einar Mickelson Field Airport clear off the runway and keep air travel safe.” This grant will allow the airport to acquire snow removal equipment and construct a new taxiway.
08.26.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Myers Field Airport a grant of $584,084 for infrastructure improvements. “These critical investments in our infrastructure help create good jobs while enhancing public safety,” Klobuchar said. “This award will greatly benefit all who travel through the Myers Field Airport.” “This grant will increase safety for travelers at Myers Field Airport and strengthen our Southwest Minnesota economy,” Franken said. “I’m pleased that the Transportation Department is making this critical investment, and I will continue to press for similar upgrades to our infrastructure moving forward.” “Investing in our regional airports benefits the local economy,” Peterson said. “This grant will give Myers Field Airport the means to make important infrastructure improvements and meet the region’s air transportation needs.” This grant will allow the airport to construct a T-hangar building, a snow removal equipment building, and a taxiway.
08.25.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Sauk Centre Municipal Airport a grant of $1,530,855 for infrastructure improvements. “Our 21st-century economy demands a 21st century transportation network,” Klobuchar said. “This grant will provide critical support and help the Sauk Centre Municipal Airport make necessary infrastructure upgrades to improve safety and service.” “Minnesotans, local businesses, and visitors to our state who rely on Sauk Centre Municipal Airport will benefit thanks to this grant," Franken said. “I’m glad that this new infrastructure investment will help improve safety at the airport and support good Minnesota jobs." “This grant will allow the Sauk Centre Municipal Airport to make important safety improvements to the existing airport infrastructure,” Peterson said. “Safe, up-to-date, regional airports play an important part in supporting the region’s economy.” This grant will allow the airport to rehabilitate its apron, runway, and taxiway and to install airport beacons and a runway vertical/visual guidance system.
08.16.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Willmar Municipal-John L. Rice Field Airport a grant of $348,766 for infrastructure improvements. “Infrastructure improvements boost public safety and help to create good, middle class jobs,” Klobuchar said. “These grant funds will help Willmar Municipal-John L. Rice Field Airport keep its facilities up-to-date and safe for all.” “The Willmar Municipal-John L. Rice Field Airport is critical to Minnesotans living in Kandiyohi County and travelers to the area,” Franken said. “This infrastructure grant will help support jobs in the community and ensure that the airport remains safe." “As a pilot, I know just how important infrastructure improvements are for regional airports,” Peterson said. “This grant will help Willmar Municipal-John L. Rice Field Airport safely meet local transportation needs.” This grant will allow the airport to rehabilitate its runway and fund an update to the airport master plan study.
08.16.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Wadena Municipal Airport a grant of $565,906 for safety improvements. “As our airports continue to serve our communities, it’s critical we make investments so they can provide the services Minnesotans rely on,” Klobuchar said. “Today’s investment will help to do that while also supporting local jobs in Wadena.” “These improvements to Wadena Municipal Airport will improve safety and support the economic health of the region,” Franken said. “I’m glad that this Transportation Department grant will increase accessibility and allow the facility to keep serving our state and visitors to Minnesota." “This grant will allow Wadena Municipal Airport to improve existing airport infrastructure,” Peterson said. “Strong regional airports benefit the local economy while meeting regional transportation needs.” This grant will allow the airport to install perimeter fencing and fund a new runway vertical/visual guidance system to make the airport more accessible by improving approaches to the runway ends.
08.11.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has approved a loan of $947,000 and a grant of $250,000 to improve the water system in Lucan. The funds will be used to help rehabilitate the existing lift station and modify the wet well piping. “Ensuring that our rural communities have access to the funding they need for water system reconstruction is critically important,” Klobuchar said. “This project will bring the environmental benefits of increased water quality and long-term wastewater treatment solutions to Lucan.” “Water treatment systems keep our families healthy and are critical to any successful community— I’ve heard that time and time again during the ‘Rural Infrastructure Listening Tour’ meetings that my staff and I have been holding all around the state,” Franken said. “This support will help Lucan upgrade its clean water system, which is good news for the entire community, and it will be a boon to the local economy. This type of project is exactly what we need to be doing more of.” "Clean and reliable water is a necessity," Peterson said. "This funding will provide Lucan with the necessary resources to meet the community's water needs." The USDA Rural Development Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant Program provides funding for clean and reliable drinking water systems, sanitary sewage disposal, sanitary solid waste disposal, and storm water drainage to households and businesses in eligible rural areas.
08.11.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has approved a loan of $1,137,000 and a grant of $436,000 to improve the water system in Oslo. The funds will be used to help improve sanitary sewer collection and the water distribution system. “Investments in infrastructure, like upgrades to our water systems, are vital to the economic development and well-being of our state,” Klobuchar said. “This project will help keep Oslo’s water system up-to-date and boost the region’s access to clean, safe water.” “Water treatment systems keep our families healthy and are critical to any successful community— I’ve heard that time and time again during the ‘Rural Infrastructure Listening Tour’ meetings that my staff and I have been holding all around the state,” Franken said. “This support will help Oslo upgrade its clean water system, which is good news for the entire community, and it will be a boon to the local economy. This type of project is exactly what we need to be doing more of.” "These funds will enable Oslo to make important improvements to the city's infrastructure," Peterson said. "Clean, safe water is a vital resource for our rural communities." The USDA Rural Development Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant Program provides funding for clean and reliable drinking water systems, sanitary sewage disposal, sanitary solid waste disposal, and storm water drainage to households and businesses in eligible rural areas.
08.11.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Moorhead Municipal Airport a grant of $115,470 for infrastructure improvements. “These critical investments in our infrastructure help create good jobs while enhancing public safety,” Klobuchar said. “This grant will greatly benefit all who travel through the Moorhead Municipal Airport.” “Minnesotans rely on Moorhead Municipal Airport to travel and to conduct business,” Franken said. “This new funding will help improve the airport to ensure that it remains safe and efficient, and it will go a long way towards supporting our regional transportation network.” “This grant will allow the Moorhead Municipal Airport to make important infrastructure improvements,” Peterson said. “This will ensure airport safety and meet regional air transportation needs.” This grant will allow the airport to conduct an airport master plan study and rehabilitate its taxiway.
08.11.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Morris Municipal – Charlie Schmidt Field Airport a grant of $2,055,179 for infrastructure improvements. “Investments in transportation infrastructure make good economic and safety sense,” Klobuchar said. “This grant will help ensure that Morris Municipal – Charlie Schmidt Field Airport has the resources it needs to safely meet consumer demands and help support good local jobs.” “Minnesotans who rely on the Morris Municipal – Charlie Schmidt Field Airport will continue to travel safely because of this new grant,” Franken said. “This infrastructure investment is good for travelers in our state, and it’s good for Western Minnesota.” “Regional airports like Morris Municipal – Charlie Schmidt Field provide economic benefits to local communities,” Peterson said. “This grant will ensure the airport remains in good, safe operating condition.” This grant will allow the airport to construct a taxiway and rehabilitate its runway.
08.11.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Pipestone Municipal Airport a grant of $226,618 for infrastructure improvements. “Infrastructure investments like these boost our economy by helping to create good jobs while improving public safety,” Klobuchar said. “This rehabilitation project will benefit the Pipestone Municipal Airport for years to come.” “Pipestone Municipal Airport is an important part of the local and regional economies,” Franken said. “I’m glad to see that this grant will not only improve safety, but also support Minnesota jobs and the economic health of the region.” “As a pilot, I understand the importance of strong airport infrastructure,” Peterson said. “This grant will allow Pipestone Municipal Airport to make important improvements and continue to meet the region’s transportation needs.” This grant will allow the airport to rehabilitate its runway and taxiway.
08.11.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Crookston Municipal Kirkwood Field Airport a grant of $383,250 for infrastructure improvements. “This grant award will help the Crookston Municipal Kirkwood Field Airport make critical investments in infrastructure improvements,” Klobuchar said. “Projects like these not only boost the economy, but also help support good jobs.” “These improvements to Crookston Municipal Kirkwood Field Airport will allow the facility to continue serving Minnesotans and visitors to our state,” Franken said. “I’m glad that the Transportation Department is investing in the infrastructure and regional economy of Northwest Minnesota.” “The improvements made possible by this grant will allow Crookston Municipal Kirkwood Field Airport to make necessary improvements,” Peterson said. “These will allow the airport to continue to safely meet the region’s transportation needs, benefitting the local economy as well.” This grant will allow the airport to rehabilitate its access road, apron, and taxiway.
08.05.2016	The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) had included a proposal in the fiscal year 2017 Medicare Inpatient Prospective Payment System (IPPS) proposed rule that would have substantially altered the distribution of Medicare payments under the Disproportionate Share Hospital program, significantly harming Minnesota’s safety net hospitals and the patients they serve Last month, Minnesota lawmakers sent a letter to Acting Administrator Slavitt urging the CMS to withdraw this proposal before issuing the IPPS rule and to revise the formula to more accurately reflect the care provided; This week, CMS announced that it has withdrawn the proposal before issuing the IPPS final rule and that it will revise the formula to more accurately reflect the care provided WASHINGTON, DC – Following an effort from Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, and Rick Nolan, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has announced that it has withdrawn a proposal that would have resulted in $40 million cut to Minnesota hospitals. The CMS had included a proposal in the fiscal year 2017 Medicare Inpatient Prospective Payment System (IPPS) proposed rule that would have substantially altered the distribution of Medicare payments under the Disproportionate Share Hospital program, significantly harming Minnesota’s safety net hospitals and the patients they serve. Last month, Minnesota lawmakers sent a letter to Acting Administrator Slavitt urging the CMS to withdraw this proposal before issuing the IPPS rule and to revise the formula to more accurately reflect the care provided. This week, CMS announced that it has withdrawn the proposal before issuing the IPPS final rule and that it will revise the formula to more accurately reflect the care provided. “Expanding Medicaid in Minnesota has resulted in fewer uninsured patients, and we should not be punished for it. This proposal would have inflicted undue harm to our state’s hospitals and most vulnerable patients,” said Klobuchar. “I am encouraged to see that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has withdrawn this proposal until the payment formula can be revised to more accurately reflect the care these hospitals provide.” “Minnesota hospitals are among the best in the nation, providing high-quality care to all Minnesotans, including those who are uninsured and underinsured,” said Franken. “That’s why when the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services released a proposal that would have resulted in steep, detrimental cuts to our hospital system, we called on the agency to reconsider its plan. I’m glad to see that the agency has listened to us and decided to withdraw and revise its proposal—this is good news for our hospitals, for the patients they serve, and for Minnesota.” “Safety-net hospitals provide much needed primary care to uninsured and underinsured Minnesotans,” said Peterson. “Though Minnesota has one of the lowest uninsured rates in the nation, it is important that we protect DSH funding so these facilities can continue to serve the state’s most vulnerable populations.” “The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has done the right thing by withdrawing this proposal and preventing a damaging cut to Minnesota’s hospitals,” said McCollum. “As more Minnesotans receive health care through the Affordable Care Act, it is important that funding formulas reflect that success and don’t needlessly punish hospitals and their patients.” "Minnesota has one of the lowest uninsured rates in the country, and expanding Medicaid is a big part of the reason why,” said Ellison. “I applaud CMS' decision to withdraw this proposal. We should be fighting to get the last few uninsured Minnesotans covered - not slashing the funds that already cover so many." “I am pleased that this proposal has rightfully been withdrawn,” said Nolan. “Cutting funding would have been a serious blow to workers and Minnesota's most vulnerable families in need of quality medical care. We will continue to work with CMS to ensure a fair and accurate process moving forward.” “The proposed Medicare DSH formula would have penalized Minnesota as well as other states that have done the right thing by expanding health insurance coverage for low-income residents,” said Lawrence Massa, president & CEO of the Minnesota Hospital Association. “We appreciate the work of our state congressional delegation and state legislative leaders who raised concerns that $40 million a year in Medicare funds would have been shifted from Minnesota to states that have not been as successful in reducing the number of uninsured patients. DSH has provided some relief for hospitals serving uninsured and underinsured patients.” The full text of the letter from Klobuchar, Franken, Peterson, McCollum, Ellison, and Nolan to CMS Acting Administrator Slavitt is below. Dear Acting Administrator Slavitt: We are writing to express concern with a proposal in the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services' (CMS) fiscal year (FY) 2017 Medicare Inpatient Prospective Payment System (IPPS) proposed rule that would substantially alter the distribution of Medicare payments under the Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) program. This proposed change would significantly harm Minnesota's safety net hospitals and the patients they serve. We urge CMS to withdraw this proposal before issuing the TPPS final rule and revise the formula to more accurately reflect the care provided. As you know, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) (P.L. 1 1 1-148) included changes to the DSH payment formula due to the expectation that the law's Medicaid expansion provision would reduce hospital uncompensated care (UC) costs. Under the new formula, hospitals receive 25 percent of the DSH funds they would have received under the pre-A CA formula. The remaining 75 percent goes to a nationwide UC pool with hospital s receiving a portion of those funds based on the total amount of UC provided. CMS currently uses "low­income days" to calculate hospitals' UC payments, which includes inpatient care provided to Medicaid beneficiaries and Medicare supplemental security income beneficiaries. Starting in FY 2018 CMS is proposing to switch from the low-income days methodology to using data on hospitals' charity care and bad debt as reported on S-10 worksheet of the Medicare cost report. We have heard strong concerns from Minnesota hospitals that the S- 10 worksheet lacks accuracy, consistency, completeness and is not subject to audits, leaving the data vulnerable to fraud and abuse. Furthermore, we believe only using levels of charity care and bad debt to determine UC costs is too narrow of a definition. CMS should broaden the UC definition to also include the unreimbursed costs of Medicaid, State Children's Health Insurance Program, and other state and local care programs. The harmful change CMS is proposing would punish states like Minnesota that expanded Medicaid because those states have lower levels of charity care and bad debt. At the same time, this proposal would reward states that have failed to reduce the uninsured rate and would remove an important incentive for these states to expand Medicaid in the future. We are proud that Minnesota has one of the lowest uninsured rates in the nation. The state should not be penalized for its efforts to increase health insurance coverage and access to care. We urge CMS to withdraw and revise the current proposal to redistribute DSH payments. Thank you for your attention to this important issue and we look forward to your response.
08.05.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Baudette International Airport a grant of $217,413 for infrastructure improvements. “Our 21st economy demands a 21st century transportation network,” Klobuchar said. “This grant will provide critical support and help the Baudette International Airport make necessary infrastructure upgrades to improve safety and continue providing Minnesotans with reliable air service.” “Investing in the Baudette International Airport will help spur economic development and bolster our regional transportation network,” Franken said. “These critical upgrades will improve airport safety, help create jobs, and go a long way towards keeping Minnesota’s aviation infrastructure world class.” “Improving the infrastructure at Baudette International Airport will allow for continued, safe air travel,” Peterson said. “A strong airport will also provide support to the region’s economy.” This grant will allow the airport to construct a taxi lane to provide access to aircraft hangars.
08.04.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Elbow Lake Municipal Airport a grant of $357,570 for infrastructure improvements. “Smart planning is essential to any successful infrastructure project,” Klobuchar said. “This support represents a major opportunity for the Elbow Lake Municipal Airport to continue anticipating future transportation needs while supporting good jobs in the entire region.” “Elbow Lake Municipal Airport provides important business and travel service to West Central Minnesota and supports many good jobs,” Franken said. “This grant will allow the airport to make smart investments that will keep the facility operating in an efficient and safe manner.” “This grant will allow the Elbow Lake Airport to look ahead and begin planning to meet the region’s future transportation needs,” Peterson said. “Continual infrastructure improvements are necessary to keeping our regional airports strong.” This grant will allow the airport to update its existing airport master plan study.
08.04.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Montevideo-Chippewa County Airport a grant of $83,831 for infrastructure improvements. “Investments in transportation infrastructure make good economic and safety sense,” Klobuchar said. “This grant will help ensure that Montevideo-Chippewa County Airport has the resources it needs to safely meet consumer demand and help support good local jobs.” “Safety is a top priority for our travelers in Minnesota, which is why it’s important that we make investments that keep our facilities world class,” Franken said. “This grant will help provide critical upgrades to improve airport safety and make sure the facility continues to operate in an efficient manner.” “Improving the Montevideo-Chippewa County Airport’s existing infrastructure will allow it to meet the region’s transportation needs,” Peterson said. “Additionally, having a strong airport provides a boost to the local economy.” This grant will allow the airport to rehabilitate its existing apron and taxiway.
08.04.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Redwood Falls Municipal Airport a grant of $152,100 for land acquisition and safety improvements. “The funds from this grant will help the Redwood Falls Municipal Airport make critical investments in its infrastructure,” Klobuchar said. “Infrastructure improvement projects like this one will boost airport performance and enhance safety.” “Safety is a top priority for travelers in Minnesota, and we need to be making smart investments to ensure our airport infrastructure is world class,” Franken said. “This grant will provide critical upgrades to improve airport safety and will help ensure that the facility continues to operate in an efficient manner.” “The funding provided by this grant will allow the Redwood Falls Municipal Airport expand and make important safety improvements,” Peterson said. “Rural airports connect many in the region and it is important they remain in good operating condition.” This grant will allow the airport to acquire land and fund the removal of tree obstructions.
08.04.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Hawley Municipal Airport a grant of $317,336 for infrastructure improvements. “Improving our infrastructure not only supports good-paying jobs now, but it serves as a down payment on the long-term economic well-being of our state and country,” Klobuchar said. “By investing in the Hawley Municipal Airport, we are helping create and support good-paying jobs across the Hawley area.” “The Hawley Municipal Airport provides important business and travel service to the region and supports many good jobs,” Franken said. “This grant will help the airport to make smart investments that will keep the facility operating in an efficient and safe manner.” “Improving the infrastructure at the Hawley Municipal Airport is important to ensuring it can meet the region’s transportation needs for years to come,” Peterson said. “As a pilot, I know firsthand how important it is that our airports are in good working condition.” This grant will allow the airport to fund the construction of a hangar building, a storm water management study, and the rehabilitation of its apron and taxiway.
07.29.2016	Farm milk prices have dropped forty percent since 2014, and in May, the nation’s cheese stocks were recorded at their highest level since the data was first recorded in 1917; Low farm milk prices have resulted in sharply reduced incomes, which is placing our nation’s dairy industry in a vulnerable position In a letter to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Klobuchar, Franken, and Peterson urged the agency to use its secretarial authority to take action to protect the nation’s dairy farmers from further crisis and to aid in the expansion and maintenance of domestic markets WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, have called on the U.S. Department of Agriculture to protect U.S. dairy farmers from the dairy industry financial crisis. Farm milk prices have dropped forty percent since 2014, and in May, the nation’s cheese stocks were recorded at their highest level since the data was first recorded in 1917. Low farm milk prices have resulted in sharply reduced incomes, which is placing our nation’s dairy industry in a vulnerable position. In a letter to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Klobuchar, Franken, and Peterson urged the agency to use its secretarial authority to protect the nation’s dairy farmers from further crisis to aid in the expansion and maintenance of domestic markets. “We are deeply concerned that U.S. dairy farmers, who are a key part of our agriculture community and agriculture economy, are in greater need of stability and support as they face these significantly lower prices, which for some are below their actual cost of production,” the lawmakers wrote. “As this industry is reeling from low prices, a glut of imports, challenges in our export markets, and poor economic growth projections we urge the USDA to use its secretarial authority under the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714c), Section 32 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), and look to past precedent for how to take action to protect all of our nation’s dairy farmers from further crisis and to aid in the expansion and maintenance of domestic markets. We encourage USDA to take any and all actions available in order to make an immediate market injection and offer financial assistance that will directly support U.S. dairy farmers equally, while being cautious to not stimulate overproduction further.” In addition to Klobuchar, Franken, and Peterson, the letter was also signed by Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Bob Casey (D-PA), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Susan Collins (R-ME), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Angus King (I-ME), Ed Markey (D-MA), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Jack Reed (D-RI), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Jon Tester (D-MT), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Representative Joe Courtney (D-CT). The full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Vilsack: We write today to express our concern about the troubling economic challenges facing U.S. dairy farmers and the entire U.S. dairy industry. We have seen farm milk prices drop forty percent since 2014 and in May the nation’s cheese stocks were recorded at their highest level since the data was first recorded in 1917. Current expectations are that the dairy market will continue to struggle with depressed prices and we seek your help as we search for ways to swiftly assist our nation’s struggling dairy farmers. Our dairy farmers have been hit extremely hard by low farm milk prices that have resulted in sharply reduced incomes, which is placing our nation’s dairy industry in an extremely vulnerable position. A number of factors have contributed to this crisis. U.S. milk production has increased almost two percent above last year’s level, while global milk production is up significantly, partly as a result of the European Union’s decision to remove its milk production quotas and the loss of their export market to Russia. Furthermore, we are seeing an increase in production in other major milk-producing countries that have led to these depressed prices globally. All of this comes as our dairy farmers are still adjusting to the new Farm Bill, and the many changes that were made to our dairy support programs. We are deeply concerned that U.S. dairy farmers, who are a key part of our agriculture community and agriculture economy, are in greater need of stability and support as they face these significantly lower prices, which for some are below their actual cost of production. As this industry is reeling from low prices, a glut of imports, challenges in our export markets, and poor economic growth projections we urge the USDA to use its secretarial authority under the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714c), Section 32 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), and look to past precedent for how to take action to protect all of our nation’s dairy farmers from further crisis and to aid in the expansion and maintenance of domestic markets. We encourage USDA to take any and all actions available in order to make an immediate market injection and offer financial assistance that will directly support U.S. dairy farmers equally, while being cautious to not stimulate overproduction further. The family business of dairy farming has long been woven into our nation’s agricultural history. Across the country, in all 50 states, dairy farms large and small are economic drivers providing local jobs and local products. During the 2009 dairy collapse, we saw far too many families have to sell off their cows and close the doors for good. Through the support of USDA, we can hopefully prevent many farms from needing to make that same difficult decision today and we hope you will work to support all of our dairy farmers across the country. We look forward to working closely with you in determining the best course of action to take in managing the current dairy industry financial crisis. Thank you for taking the time to address this important matter. Sincerely,
07.25.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Benson Municipal Airport a grant of $111,345 for infrastructure improvements. “These critical investments in our infrastructure help create good jobs while enhancing public safety,” Klobuchar said. “This award will greatly benefit all who travel through Benson Municipal Airport.” “Safety is a top priority for travelers, and it is critical that we make investments to ensure our airports are modern and in good condition,” Franken said. “This grant will help provide upgrades to improve airport infrastructure and help to ensure that the facility operates in an efficient manner.” “Improving Benson Municipal Airport’s infrastructure will help the airport operate safely and meet the area’s air transportation needs,” Peterson said. “These improvements will also benefit the local economy.” This grant will allow the airport to rehabilitate its existing apron, taxiway, and runway.
07.25.2016	Following efforts from the Minnesota congressional delegation, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) today announced it will grant nonstop service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). In May, the Minnesota lawmakers sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary Foxx highlighting the importance of access to the growing Asian markets for Minnesota businesses and travelers, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in Minnesota, and urged DOT to consider Delta Air Lines’ application for service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and MSP. “As chair of the Senate Travel and Tourism Caucus, I know how important travel and tourism are to the economy of Minnesota,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar. “Access to the growing Asian markets are particularly important to Minnesota businesses, and why I led efforts with my Minnesota colleagues to ensure that our state continues to have direct access to Asia. Today’s announcement that MSP and Tokyo’s more convenient Haneda Airport will be connected by nonstop flights is great news for Minnesota’s economy and those traveling to and from our state.” “Businesses in Minnesota rely on MSP to bring jobs to our state and strengthen our local economy,” said Senator Al Franken. “And families rely on MSP to visit unique places all around the world. We fought hard to open Haneda Airport to nonstop service between Tokyo and Minnesota because it will help promote economic growth and expand tourism opportunities. This is a good day for our state.” “This announcement creates a direct link between Minnesota and Tokyo,” said Representative Collin Peterson. “This new service will better connect Minnesota businesses with those in Tokyo and provide new opportunities for growth in Minnesota.” “I am very pleased that Secretary Foxx has agreed with the Minnesota delegation and granted nonstop service between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport,” said Representative Betty McCollum. “This essential airline service will help forge even stronger connections between Minnesota and Japan, particularly Minnesota businesses that are working to succeed in Asian markets. Overall, this is great news for our Twin Cities region.” “I am pleased the Department of Transportation has announced it will grant Delta Air Lines’ application for nonstop flights between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport,” said Representative Tim Walz. “Increasing access to developing markets is critical for the continued growth of Minnesota’s businesses. This is certainly a win for our state’s economy and those traveling between the two locations.” “This is tremendous news for MSP and our Minnesota businesses,” said Representative Rick Nolan. “During my discussion with Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx regarding this matter, I emphasized the importance of this decision. Nonstop service between Haneda Airport and MSP will allow Minnesota business travelers to efficiently conduct business across the globe.” “Minnesota businesses are some of the most enterprising and innovative in the world, and the new direct service to Tokyo’s Haneda Airport will present more opportunities for them to thrive,” said Representative Erik Paulsen. “I’m very proud to see this bipartisan effort yield such a positive result for Minnesota businesses and jobs.” “Trade and travel are critical to Minnesota’s economy and securing daytime slots from MSP to Haneda ensures that Minnesota businesses will remain at the forefront of the global economy,” said Representative Tom Emmer. “I’m proud to have worked so closely with the entire delegation advocating for our Minnesota companies and workers.” The full text of the letter the lawmakers sent in May is below: Dear Secretary Foxx: We write to urge full and fair consideration of Delta Air Lines’ application for a daytime slot pair allowing for service between Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). Earlier this year, we wrote to express our concern that a limited opening of Haneda Airport could make the current route between MSP and Narita International Airport economically unsustainable. We noted that the MSP to Narita route is the only direct flight between Minnesota and Asia. Given the new bilateral aviation agreement with Japan, allowing service between MSP and Haneda is now imperative to maintaining Minnesota’s connection to Asia. Access to growing Asian markets is particularly important to Minnesota businesses, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in our state. In 2015 employees from just 25 businesses in Minnesota took more than 10,000 flights from Minneapolis/St. Paul to Tokyo. Minnesota competes to attract businesses by creating a positive business climate based on good governance, a strong workforce and world-class infrastructure. Losing the only nonstop flight connection to Asia would damage Minnesota’s competitiveness. Delta’s proposal to use MSP as a hub to connect 114 U.S. cities to Haneda will have benefits in Minnesota and beyond. Many Midwestern communities will also benefit from shorter flight times compared to alternative hubs. In addition, the connecting traffic will strengthen MSP as an international hub and leverage the existing transportation infrastructure and vibrant aviation sector in the Twin Cities. Ensuring Minnesota receives a new daytime slot pair is also essential for maintaining a competitive balance in the transpacific market. Currently, robust competition among three global alliances facilitates consumer choice and puts downward pressure on airfares. The limited opening of Haneda Airport has the potential to upset this balance as American Airlines and United Airlines currently control 79 percent of the global Haneda Airport market in conjunction with their Japanese partner airlines. Thank you for your attention to our views. We look forward to working with you on this important issue.Following efforts from the Minnesota congressional delegation, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) today announced it will grant nonstop service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). In May, the Minnesota lawmakers sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary Foxx highlighting the importance of access to the growing Asian markets for Minnesota businesses and travelers, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in Minnesota, and urged DOT to consider Delta Air Lines’ application for service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and MSP. “As chair of the Senate Travel and Tourism Caucus, I know how important travel and tourism are to the economy of Minnesota,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar. “Access to the growing Asian markets are particularly important to Minnesota businesses, and why I led efforts with my Minnesota colleagues to ensure that our state continues to have direct access to Asia. Today’s announcement that MSP and Tokyo’s more convenient Haneda Airport will be connected by nonstop flights is great news for Minnesota’s economy and those traveling to and from our state.” “Businesses in Minnesota rely on MSP to bring jobs to our state and strengthen our local economy,” said Senator Al Franken. “And families rely on MSP to visit unique places all around the world. We fought hard to open Haneda Airport to nonstop service between Tokyo and Minnesota because it will help promote economic growth and expand tourism opportunities. This is a good day for our state.” “This announcement creates a direct link between Minnesota and Tokyo,” said Representative Collin Peterson. “This new service will better connect Minnesota businesses with those in Tokyo and provide new opportunities for growth in Minnesota.” “I am very pleased that Secretary Foxx has agreed with the Minnesota delegation and granted nonstop service between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport,” said Representative Betty McCollum. “This essential airline service will help forge even stronger connections between Minnesota and Japan, particularly Minnesota businesses that are working to succeed in Asian markets. Overall, this is great news for our Twin Cities region.” “I am pleased the Department of Transportation has announced it will grant Delta Air Lines’ application for nonstop flights between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport,” said Representative Tim Walz. “Increasing access to developing markets is critical for the continued growth of Minnesota’s businesses. This is certainly a win for our state’s economy and those traveling between the two locations.” “This is tremendous news for MSP and our Minnesota businesses,” said Representative Rick Nolan. “During my discussion with Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx regarding this matter, I emphasized the importance of this decision. Nonstop service between Haneda Airport and MSP will allow Minnesota business travelers to efficiently conduct business across the globe.” “Minnesota businesses are some of the most enterprising and innovative in the world, and the new direct service to Tokyo’s Haneda Airport will present more opportunities for them to thrive,” said Representative Erik Paulsen. “I’m very proud to see this bipartisan effort yield such a positive result for Minnesota businesses and jobs.” “Trade and travel are critical to Minnesota’s economy and securing daytime slots from MSP to Haneda ensures that Minnesota businesses will remain at the forefront of the global economy,” said Representative Tom Emmer. “I’m proud to have worked so closely with the entire delegation advocating for our Minnesota companies and workers.” The full text of the letter the lawmakers sent in May is below: Dear Secretary Foxx: We write to urge full and fair consideration of Delta Air Lines’ application for a daytime slot pair allowing for service between Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). Earlier this year, we wrote to express our concern that a limited opening of Haneda Airport could make the current route between MSP and Narita International Airport economically unsustainable. We noted that the MSP to Narita route is the only direct flight between Minnesota and Asia. Given the new bilateral aviation agreement with Japan, allowing service between MSP and Haneda is now imperative to maintaining Minnesota’s connection to Asia. Access to growing Asian markets is particularly important to Minnesota businesses, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in our state. In 2015 employees from just 25 businesses in Minnesota took more than 10,000 flights from Minneapolis/St. Paul to Tokyo. Minnesota competes to attract businesses by creating a positive business climate based on good governance, a strong workforce and world-class infrastructure. Losing the only nonstop flight connection to Asia would damage Minnesota’s competitiveness. Delta’s proposal to use MSP as a hub to connect 114 U.S. cities to Haneda will have benefits in Minnesota and beyond. Many Midwestern communities will also benefit from shorter flight times compared to alternative hubs. In addition, the connecting traffic will strengthen MSP as an international hub and leverage the existing transportation infrastructure and vibrant aviation sector in the Twin Cities. Ensuring Minnesota receives a new daytime slot pair is also essential for maintaining a competitive balance in the transpacific market. Currently, robust competition among three global alliances facilitates consumer choice and puts downward pressure on airfares. The limited opening of Haneda Airport has the potential to upset this balance as American Airlines and United Airlines currently control 79 percent of the global Haneda Airport market in conjunction with their Japanese partner airlines. Thank you for your attention to our views. We look forward to working with you on this important issue.
07.22.2016	WASHINGTON – House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson today, along with House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway and Senate Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Debbie Stabenow called on USDA to extend the enrollment period for the dairy Margin Protection Program (MPP) to December 31. In a letter to USDA Secretary Vilsack the lawmakers said extending the sign up period would encourage additional participation. “We believe an extension to December 31 should be made permanent to give producers additional time to make informed decisions and to improve program participation,” the lawmakers wrote. Since MPP was created in the 2014 Farm Bill milk prices have dropped almost 40 percent and cheese stocks now stand at record high levels. The current enrollment deadline is September 30. Full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Vilsack, As you know, this has been a difficult year for dairy farmers. Milk prices have dropped almost 40 percent since 2014 and cheese stocks are at record high levels. The new Margin Protection Program (MPP) is not perfect but we will continue to look for ways to make improvements to the current safety net. We are asking for you to permanently extend the MPP sign up period to December 31 to encourage additional participation. We have seen clear evidence that enrollment grows when the sign up period is extended. USDA has extended the sign up period for the last two years. Last year roughly 16,000 farmers were enrolled at the original September 30 deadline. An additional 7,190 farmers enrolled after this was extended to November 20. We believe an extension to December 31 should be made permanent to give producers additional time to make informed decisions and to improve program participation. There are lessons to be learned with the implementation of new farm programs. Producers rely on futures information and estimates of their own financial health to make educated decisions about how much coverage they should purchase. We believe extending the sign up period to December 31 would provide more time for producers to assess the situation and maximize the sign up potential for MPP. Thank you for your consideration. PDF of letter
07.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Following efforts from the Minnesota congressional delegation, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) today announced it will grant nonstop service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). In May, the Minnesota lawmakers sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary Foxx highlighting the importance of access to the growing Asian markets for Minnesota businesses and travelers, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in Minnesota, and urged DOT to consider Delta Air Lines’ application for service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and MSP. “As chair of the Senate Travel and Tourism Caucus, I know how important travel and tourism are to the economy of Minnesota,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar. “Access to the growing Asian markets are particularly important to Minnesota businesses, and why I led efforts with my Minnesota colleagues to ensure that our state continues to have direct access to Asia. Today’s announcement that MSP and Tokyo’s more convenient Haneda Airport will be connected by nonstop flights is great news for Minnesota’s economy and those traveling to and from our state.” “Businesses in Minnesota rely on MSP to bring jobs to our state and strengthen our local economy,” said Senator Al Franken. “And families rely on MSP to visit unique places all around the world. We fought hard to open Haneda Airport to nonstop service between Tokyo and Minnesota because it will help promote economic growth and expand tourism opportunities. This is a good day for our state.” “This announcement creates a direct link between Minnesota and Tokyo,” said Representative Collin Peterson. “This new service will better connect Minnesota businesses with those in Tokyo and provide new opportunities for growth in Minnesota.” “I am very pleased that Secretary Foxx has agreed with the Minnesota delegation and granted nonstop service between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport,” said Representative Betty McCollum. “This essential airline service will help forge even stronger connections between Minnesota and Japan, particularly Minnesota businesses that are working to succeed in Asian markets. Overall, this is great news for our Twin Cities region.” “I am pleased the Department of Transportation has announced it will grant Delta Air Lines’ application for nonstop flights between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport,” said Representative Tim Walz. “Increasing access to developing markets is critical for the continued growth of Minnesota’s businesses. This is certainly a win for our state’s economy and those traveling between the two locations.” “This is tremendous news for MSP and our Minnesota businesses,” said Representative Rick Nolan. “During my discussion with Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx regarding this matter, I emphasized the importance of this decision. Nonstop service between Haneda Airport and MSP will allow Minnesota business travelers to efficiently conduct business across the globe.” “Minnesota businesses are some of the most enterprising and innovative in the world, and the new direct service to Tokyo’s Haneda Airport will present more opportunities for them to thrive,” said Representative Erik Paulsen. “I’m very proud to see this bipartisan effort yield such a positive result for Minnesota businesses and jobs.” “Trade and travel are critical to Minnesota’s economy and securing daytime slots from MSP to Haneda ensures that Minnesota businesses will remain at the forefront of the global economy,” said Representative Tom Emmer. “I’m proud to have worked so closely with the entire delegation advocating for our Minnesota companies and workers.” The full text of the letter the lawmakers sent in May is below: Dear Secretary Foxx: We write to urge full and fair consideration of Delta Air Lines’ application for a daytime slot pair allowing for service between Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). Earlier this year, we wrote to express our concern that a limited opening of Haneda Airport could make the current route between MSP and Narita International Airport economically unsustainable. We noted that the MSP to Narita route is the only direct flight between Minnesota and Asia. Given the new bilateral aviation agreement with Japan, allowing service between MSP and Haneda is now imperative to maintaining Minnesota’s connection to Asia. Access to growing Asian markets is particularly important to Minnesota businesses, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in our state. In 2015 employees from just 25 businesses in Minnesota took more than 10,000 flights from Minneapolis/St. Paul to Tokyo. Minnesota competes to attract businesses by creating a positive business climate based on good governance, a strong workforce and world-class infrastructure. Losing the only nonstop flight connection to Asia would damage Minnesota’s competitiveness. Delta’s proposal to use MSP as a hub to connect 114 U.S. cities to Haneda will have benefits in Minnesota and beyond. Many Midwestern communities will also benefit from shorter flight times compared to alternative hubs. In addition, the connecting traffic will strengthen MSP as an international hub and leverage the existing transportation infrastructure and vibrant aviation sector in the Twin Cities. Ensuring Minnesota receives a new daytime slot pair is also essential for maintaining a competitive balance in the transpacific market. Currently, robust competition among three global alliances facilitates consumer choice and puts downward pressure on airfares. The limited opening of Haneda Airport has the potential to upset this balance as American Airlines and United Airlines currently control 79 percent of the global Haneda Airport market in conjunction with their Japanese partner airlines. Thank you for your attention to our views. We look forward to working with you on this important issue. ###
07.15.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Thief River Falls Regional Airport a grant of $296,263 for safety improvements. “Improving the safety of our infrastructure serves as a down payment on the long-term economic well-being of our state and country,” Klobuchar said. “By investing in the Thief River Falls Regional Airport, we are helping provide the safe services Minnesotans rely on.” “Strong investments in infrastructure lead to strong regional economies,” Franken said. “This is a prime example of how smart investments can work to enhance transportation and safety for travelers while helping to boost the Thief River Falls economy.” “This grant will allow Thief River Falls Regional Airport to clean the runway and remain in service when it snows,” Peterson said. “Improving our regional airports’ infrastructure ensures that our airports are operating safely and can continue to serve the region.” This grant will allow the airport to acquire new snow removal equipment to keep the airport serviceable during snow periods.
07.15.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Windom Municipal Airport a grant of $166,160 for infrastructure improvements. “The funds from this grant will help the Windom Municipal Airport make critical investments in its infrastructure,” Klobuchar said. “Infrastructure improvement projects like those this grant will help fund will boost airport performance and enhance safety.” “Investing in the Windom Municipal Airport will help spur economic development and bolster our regional transportation network,” Franken said. “These critical upgrades will improve airport safety, help create jobs, and work to ensure that Minnesota’s aviation infrastructure system is world class.” “Keeping Windom Municipal Airport’s infrastructure up to date is important to ensuring it can meet the region’s transportation needs,” Peterson said. “The improvements made possible through this grant will also benefit the local economy. This grant will allow the airport to update the existing airport master plan study.
07.14.2016	Congressman Collin C. Peterson today led members of the Congressional Biofuels Caucus in a letter calling on the EPA to increase the renewable fuel blending targets in the final rule for the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). In their letter to Administrator McCarthy, the lawmakers wrote of the RFS, “The policy has created a dynamic market that is fully capable of producing and consuming the statutory volume of conventional biofuels and increasing amounts of advanced biofuels such as biodiesel. America’s crop farmers, biofuel producers and rural communities have made significant investments to get to this point, and we urge the EPA to finalize a rule and methodology that fully appreciates this progress.” The EPA is currently in the process of finalizing the 2017 RFS fuel blending targets. The agency has fallen behind in setting blend targets that meet Congress’s original intent. While the proposed rule is closer to the volume requirements specified by Congress, it still falls short in meeting the statute. Full text of the letter is below. Dear Administrator McCarthy: As you finalize the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) rule setting renewable fuel blending targets for 2017, we urge you to complete this rulemaking in a manner consistent with the Congressional intent to aggressively expand the production of renewable fuels and provide more choices at the pump in the United States. The domestic renewable fuel industry has made significant progress since Congress first adopted the RFS in 2005 and expanded the law in 2007. The policy has created a dynamic market that is fully capable of producing and consuming the statutory volume of conventional biofuels and increasing amounts of advanced biofuels such as biodiesel. America’s crop farmers, biofuel producers and rural communities have made significant investments to get to this point, and we urge the EPA to finalize a rule and methodology that fully appreciates this progress. Given the proven track record of innovation and capacity for development in the renewable fuels market, we believe that a final rule that falls short of the conventional biofuel cap will do nothing to assuage critics of the program, while missing an opportunity to refocus on addressing the pressing issues needed to fully realize the potential renewable fuels can make for our economy and energy security. We urge you to increase the renewable fuel blending targets in the proposed rule to restore confidence in the RFS and further encourage continued development in this industry. We thank your consideration of this request. Sincerely,
07.14.2016	Today, Congressman Kurt Schrader (OR-5), Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-5), Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Congressman Collin Peterson (MN-7) introduced legislation that will initiate a reasonable three-year phase-in of the Department of Labor’s new overtime rule. The new rule, proposed in May, raises the threshold for employees who are exempt from overtime pay from $23,660 to $47,476, and goes into effect immediately on December 1, 2016. The Overtime Reform and Enhancement Act, introduced today, will incrementally phase in the new threshold of $47,476 over the next three years, beginning with a 50% increase this December. As the final threshold more than doubles, this is the first time since 2004 that the threshold for overtime exemption will be raised. “The current overtime threshold is horribly outdated and needs to be raised as both employees and employers navigate our changing economy. This bill will do exactly that without disrupting the way businesses operate and employees are paid,” said Congressman Schrader. “Since the DOL’s immediate phase-in date was announced, we’ve heard from business owners and their employees who are worried about implementing this increase overnight. Without sufficient time to plan for the increase, cuts and demotions will become inevitable, and workers will actually end up making less than they made before. It’s long past time we strengthen overtime pay protections for American workers in a meaningful and effective way.” “I am hearing from lots of Middle Tennesseans who are worried about how this new rule will affect them,” Congressman Cooper said. “The overtime rule hadn’t been adjusted in years and needed updating. But it’s good to make commonsense changes and add flexibility so the rule works for all businesses and workers can actually have a chance to get ahead. We don’t want to see lost hours or shifts in job responsibility.” “While I believe the time has come to increase the overtime threshold, the DOL rule would put businesses in a bind and potentially lead to job loss,” said Congressman Peterson. “Both businesses and constituents in my district have expressed concern about the impact of an immediate threshold increase. A three-year phase in will provide adequate time for business to adapt to the new standard while also ensuring workers are fairly compensated.” “Work in America has changed greatly in the last few decades,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Today, Americans are working longer hours and are more productive, but salaries and overtime provisions haven’t kept pace. New overtime standards are needed for American workers, but we must ensure new and established businesses have adequate opportunity to adapt to these new rules so as not to become overly burdensome with unintended consequences and slow job growth in communities across the country. This bill provides that necessary time for adjustment to make sure both workers and employers are ready to progress and make our economy stronger.” On December 1, 2016, the Overtime Reform and Enhancement Act will immediately increase the threshold more than 50% to $35,984. Each year following, the salary threshold will be raised by $74 per week until December 1, 2019, when we reach the DOL’s proposed $47,476 threshold.
07.11.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson and Rick Nolan, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Bemidji Regional Airport a grant of $1,394,200 for infrastructure improvements. “Critical investments in our infrastructure help create good jobs while enhancing public safety,” Klobuchar said. “By investing in the Bemidji Regional Airport, we are making an important down payment on the economy of the region.” “The Bemidji Regional Airport provides important business and travel services to the Bemidji area and supports many good jobs,” Franken said. “This grant will allow the airport to make smart investments that will keep the facility operating in an efficient and safe manner.” “This grant will fund important safety improvements to Bemidji Regional Airport,” Peterson said. “As I pilot, I understand firsthand how it important it is that our regional airports are up to date and able to operate safely and efficiently.” “This is tremendous news for the Bemidji Regional Airport,” Nolan said. “The airport is an integral part of our economy in the Eighth District. This funding will support good paying jobs in our area while promoting safe and efficient air travel.” This grant will allow the airport to acquire aircraft rescue and firefighting safety equipment, conduct an environmental assessment, and construct a snow removal equipment building.
07.11.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Paynesville Municipal Airport a grant of $207,000 for infrastructure improvements. “Improving our infrastructure not only supports good-paying jobs now, but it serves as a down payment on the long-term economic well-being of our state and country,” Klobuchar said. “By investing in the Paynesville Municipal Airport, we are helping create and support good-paying jobs across the area.” “Investing in the Paynesville Municipal Airport will help spur economic development and bolster our regional transportation network,” Franken said. “These critical upgrades will improve airport safety, help create jobs, and work to ensure that Minnesota’s aviation infrastructure system is world-class.” “Making improvements to Paynesville Municipal Airport’s existing infrastructure will ensure the airport can continue to meet the region’s transportation needs,” Peterson said. “Regional airports play a vital role in supporting the local economy and providing local jobs.” This grant will allow the airport to acquire land for development and rehabilitate the general aviation apron and runway.
07.06.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Hector Municipal Airport a grant of $265,500 for infrastructure improvements. “This grant award will help the Hector Municipal Airport make critical investments in infrastructure improvements,” Klobuchar said. “Projects like these not only boost the economy, but they also help support good jobs.” “Investing in Hector Municipal Airport spurs economic development and bolsters our regional transportation network,” Franken said. “These critical upgrades will improve airport safety, help create jobs, and go a long way towards making sure that Minnesota’s aviation infrastructure system is world-class.” “Keeping our local airports up to date is necessary for safe air travel,” Peterson said. “Through this grant, Hector Municipal Airport can make important improvements and continue to meet the region’s transportation needs.” This grant will allow the airport to begin the construction phase of a single pump fuel facility to make the airport self-sustaining while generating revenue. It will also fund the construction phase of a vault to house runway electrical control equipment.
07.06.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Glencoe Municipal Airport a grant of $221,895 for infrastructure improvements. “The funds from this grant will help the Glencoe Municipal Airport make the necessary strides towards improving its infrastructure,” Klobuchar said. “This investment represents a key component in helping support good jobs across the region while improving public safety.” “Glencoe Municipal Airport serves as a key economic driver for the region,” Franken said. “This grant will provide critical upgrades to improve airport infrastructure and begin the process of ensuring that the facility operates in the most efficient manner possible.” “Continual infrastructure improvements are necessary for our regional airports to remain in good operating condition,” Peterson said. “This grant will put Glencoe Municipal Airport on track to meet the region’s growing air transportation needs and provide a boost the local economy.” This grant will allow the airport to update the existing airport master plan study that reflects the current and future needs of the airport.
07.06.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Winsted Municipal Airport a grant of $171,000 for infrastructure improvements. “The funds from this grant will help the Winsted Municipal Airport make critical investments in its infrastructure,” Klobuchar said. “Infrastructure improvement projects like this one will boost airport performance and enhance safety.” “This grant is very important for Winsted Municipal Airport, and it will help strengthen the regional economy,” Franken said. “I’m glad that the Department of Transportation is making this smart investment, and I will continue to press for similar improvements to infrastructure across Minnesota.” “Strong, local airports are important to our region’s economy,” Peterson said. “Through this grant, Winsted Municipal Airport can begin looking at ways to improve the airport’s infrastructure and meet the area’s transportation needs.” This grant will allow the airport to conduct a study on the impact of paving the runway.
06.16.2016	U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Warroad International Memorial Airport, also known as Swede Carlson Field, a grant of $684,228 for safety improvements. “Investments in our infrastructure help create jobs while enhancing public safety,” Klobuchar said. “By investing in security and safety at the Warroad International Memorial Airport, we are making an important down payment on the economy of the region.” “This grant will increase safety for travelers at Warroad Airport and strengthen our Northwest Minnesota economy,” Franken said. “I’m glad that the Transportation Department is making this vital investment, and I will continue to press for similar improvements to our infrastructure moving forward.” “Rural airports are often a lifeline and provide economic support to communities in the region,” Peterson said. “As a pilot myself, I understand how important it is that our airports are safe and in good operating condition.” This grant will allow the airport to install perimeter fencing and gates to protect the airport from unauthorized and inadvertent entry and wildlife hazards.
06.16.2016	The Minnesota congressional delegation urged the U.S. Department of State to prevent the closure of the Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya, the largest refugee camp in the world. Nearly 350,000 Somali refugees who were displaced by war call the refugee camp in Kenya home. The closure may worsen the security situation throughout the Horn of Africa, as closing the camps would force their residents to repatriate to Somalia, Democratic Republic of Congo, and Eritrea—countries that lack the necessary infrastructure to handle a sudden population influx. In a bipartisan letter to Secretary Kerry, the Minnesota lawmakers highlighted the harmful impacts the close of the refugee camp would have in East Africa and on the lives of thousands of refugees. “The involuntary repatriation of more than 350,000 refugees is a violation of international law that would cause a humanitarian crisis counterproductive to regional stability,” the lawmakers wrote. “We have already begun hearing significant concerns from our Somali-American constituents and there is growing concern among the community of the harmful impacts the closure of the refugee camp will have in East Africa. We respectfully urge you to work with the United Nations and regional partners to prevent the closure of Dadaab, an action that would threaten the lives of thousands of refugees.” The full text of the letter the lawmakers sent is below: Dear Secretary Kerry, We write to express our serious concern regarding the recent announcement that the Kenyan government plans to close the Dadaab refugee camp. We thank for your recent statement calling on the Kenyan government to continue its support for refugees and respectfully request that you work to prevent the closure of this camp. The involuntary repatriation of more than 350,000 refugees is a violation of international law that would cause a humanitarian crisis counterproductive to regional stability. Dadaab refugee complex is considered the world's largest refugee camp. Nearly 350,000 Somali refugees who were displaced by war call it home. Overcrowded and chronically underfunded, these refugee camps are now home to three generations of refugees. For decades, Kenya has experienced a protracted refugee situation, as international refugee organizations have struggled to meet the needs of displaced populations. Last year, the Kenyan government also threatened to close Dadaab in the wake of the al-Shabaab attack on Garissa University College. International pressure, including from the U.S. Department of State, and an infusion of humanitarian funding convinced the Kenyan government that the camp should remain open. Unfortunately, Kenya’s most recent commitment to close Dadaab was accompanied by the dismantling of its Department of Refugee Affairs. Should Kenya continue to follow through with the closure, it would threaten the lives of thousands of refugees. It may also worsen the security situation throughout the Horn of Africa, as closing the camps would force their residents to repatriate to Somalia, Democratic Republic of Congo, and Eritrea - countries that lack the necessary infrastructure to handle a sudden population influx. We have already begun hearing significant concerns from our Somali-American constituents and there is growing concern among the community of the harmful impacts the closure of the refugee camp will have in East Africa. We respectfully urge you to work with the United Nations and regional partners to prevent the closure of Dadaab, an action that would threaten the lives of thousands of refugees. Please keep us informed of progress toward addressing this issue. Sincerely,
06.16.2016	After an effort from Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Rick Nolan, Erik Paulsen, and Tom Emmer, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has approved new direct flights between Minnesota and Cuba. As a part of the Administration’s efforts to normalize relations with Cuba, the U.S. and Cuba recently signed a civil aviation accord that will open up new opportunities for American businesses and travelers, including regular flights between the U.S. and Cuba. In an April letter to Secretary Foxx, the lawmakers urged DOT to consider the application of Sun Country Airlines to provide direct flights between Minnesota and Cuban airports. Today, DOT approved two direct Sun Country flights a week between Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport and the airports serving the Cuban cities of Santa Clara and Matanzas. Sun Country is based in the Twin Cities, and was the only airline bidding for direct flights between Minnesota and Cuba. “The new direct Sun Country flights between Minnesota and Cuba will help boost Minnesota exports and allow Cubans greater access to Minnesota-made goods and products,” said Klobuchar. “As we continue to break down barriers that prevent travel to Cuba, we must build on this progress and pass my bipartisan bill to lift the trade embargo. If we don’t, the millions of Americans that will visit Cuba will end up staying in Spanish hotels and eating Chinese food instead of Minnesota-based businesses like Carlson and General Mills. ” “The newly approved direct flights to Cuba are great news for Minnesota businesses and travelers," said Franken. "When I visited Cuba last year, I focused on finding ways to expand economic and travel opportunities for Minnesotans. And this historic announcement will do just that. Direct flights by Sun Country Airlines from Minneapolis-St. Paul Airport will help Minnesotans and our businesses continue to play a critical role as our country improves relations with Cuba.” “Allowing Americans to travel to Cuba is a major step to normalizing relations and expanding trade opportunities. By facilitating travel we can show the Cuban people the great benefits of democracy,” Peterson said. “This announcement will help meet the transportation needs of Minnesotans looking to visit or do business in Cuba.” “Today’s announcement that Sun Country will be able to fly directly to Cuba is great news for Minnesota families and businesses,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Sometimes you just need a break from cold and dark Minnesota winters, and I know Minnesotans will take full advantage of these direct flights for business or for cultural exchange.” “Sun Country’s establishment of flights between Minnesota and Cuba will provide wonderful opportunities for American businesses and tourists alike,” Nolan said. “When I met with President Fidel Castro in Havana in 1977 to negotiate the release of American prisoners and establish an exchange program between the U of M and Havana Schools of Agriculture, Castro predicted it would take another thirty years for our two nations to resume normal diplomatic relations. I thought him overly pessimistic at the time, but he proved to be correct. So I am tremendously pleased to that we are taking these important steps to bridge transportation between our two nations, separated by only ninety miles of water.” “Sun Country Airlines is a proud Minnesota business and deserving of these direct flights to Cuba,” said Congressman Paulsen. “I am excited about the possibilities the flights will create for Minnesota’s economy as well as businesses and families across our state.” “Today’s announcement by the Department of Transportation to approve Sun Country Airlines’ direct flights to Cuba is a great step in the ever-evolving U.S. – Cuba relationship,” Emmer said. “Because of this move, Minnesota’s own Sun Country will be now be able to have a direct path for Minnesota businesses and families to the neighboring Cuba and all this budding relationship has to offer.” The full text of the April letter the lawmakers sent is below: Dear Secretary Foxx: We write in support of your efforts to increase commercial air travel to Cuba and in support of the application of Sun Country Airlines to provide direct service between Minneapolis/St. Paul and the Cuban airports serving Havana, Matanzas, and Santa Clara. The recent signing of the U.S. – Cuba civil aviation accord will open up new economic opportunities for American businesses and travelers and paves the way for regular flights between the U.S. and Cuba. These flights will allow Americans to engage with the Cuban people – who are ahead of their government on economic policy and human rights – and support the hundreds of thousands of small businesses, called cuentapropistas, owned by the people of Cuba. It is our hope that as you decide which airlines will operate the new daily flights to Cuba and, particularly, the twenty new flights to Havana, you will consider small American businesses like Sun Country Airlines. Granting frequency allocations to smaller air carriers like Sun Country would maximize public benefits by helping ensure that air travel markets between the U.S. and Cuba are not concentrated in the hands of a few, large dominant carriers. Moreover, Sun Country, based in The Twin Cities, has already shown its ability to conduct successful regular flights to Cuba, having provided charter service for Cuba Travel Services for travel to and from Cuba between 2013 and 2015. Sun Country is the only airline bidding for direct flights between Minnesota and Cuba, and these routes would continue to promote the important economic and cultural interests our state has in Cuba.
06.03.2016	WASHINGTON – Minnesota Congressman and House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson and North Dakota Congressman Kevin Cramer will host an Agriculture Committee Listening Session Monday, June 6 in Moorhead. The session will focus on the role of tile drainage and drainage management to complement the work of the Red River Retention Authority (RRRA) under the Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP). House Agriculture Committee Subcommittee on Conservation and Forestry Chairman Glenn “G.T” Thompson, R-Pa., and Reps. Tim Walz, D-Minn., and Kristi Noem, R-S.D., will join the discussion. WHO: House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson, D-Minn. Representative Kevin Cramer, R-N.D. Subcommittee on Conservation and Forestry Chairman G.T. Thompson, R-Pa. Representative Tim Walz, D-Minn. Representative Kristi Noem, R-S.D. WHAT: House Agriculture Committee Listening Session re: tile drainage and drainage management WHEN: Monday, June 6, 2016, 9:00 a.m. WHERE: Courtyard by Marriott, 1080 28th Ave. South, Moorhead BACKGROUND: USDA’s Natural Resource Conservation Services provided $50 million for the Red River Initiative to utilize existing conservation programs in the Valley. This is in addition the $12 million RCPP previously awarded the RRRA. The USDA Red River Initiative cost-shares the addition of drainage management structures on drainage systems through the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) and also helps to enroll wetland areas that can hold water through the Agricultural Conservation Easement Program (ACEP) Wetland Reserve Easement component. Members will be looking at the road blocks frustrating farmers as they try to make wider use of tile drainage, including the timeliness of USDA determinations and the ability to mitigate middle of field wetlands. Drainage management practices that NRCS can cost-share on tile drainage and other end of field options to address water quantity and quality will also be discussed.
05.24.2016	This year we will mark the 147th observance of Memorial Day. While many spend the long weekend enjoying the first days of summer with friends and family, we should not lose sight of the meaning behind this federal holiday. I hope you will take a moment to reflect on this Memorial Day. Government leaders first established “Declaration Day” following the Civil War as an opportunity for the nation to honor the graves of fallen Union and Confederate soldiers. The holiday has since extended to pay respect to all Americans who died serving in the military. The welfare of our nation's troops, and honoring those who paid the ultimate sacrifice, is highly important to me. Every day I salute our veterans and pledge to continue to dedicate myself to pursuing every effort to ensure our veterans and soldiers have the quality health care and benefits that they have earned. We owe it to them. I wish you and your family a fulfilling holiday weekend and encourage you to pay your respects to our country's service members. It is important to remember the men and women who have valiantly defended our country, as well as those who continue to sacrifice their lives for our freedom.
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson and Rick Nolan, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded a grant to Minnesota’s The Initiative Foundation. The USDA awarded grants to 23 organizations to support rural and economic development projects. The Initiative Foundation in Minnesota was selected for a $173,372 grant to provide training, technical assistance and financial support to 20 non-profit intermediaries that are locally-based and skilled in business development and job creation. “Minnesota’s own The Initiative Foundation was chosen to receive this grant because of its dedication to improving rural economies,” said Klobuchar. “Our nation’s strength is anchored in our rural communities. This grant will ensure that The Initiative Foundation can continue to support the important job creation and business development efforts of Minnesota’s non-profits.” “Investing in our rural communities is good for Minnesota’s overall economic health and it’s good for the entire country,” said Franken. “And one of my top priorities it to expand our workforce and get people the training they need for middle-class, good-paying jobs. This new support will help create jobs and economic opportunity in rural Minnesota.” "Making investments in rural communities and connecting important resources to rural citizens is essential to keeping rural areas thriving," Peterson said. "This grant will support job creation and benefit the rural economy." “Here in Minnesota’s Eighth District, our rural economy depends on small business development and job creation,” Nolan said. “This grant for The Initiative Foundation will help bolster our rural communities by providing the training, technical assistance and financial support needed to support these important rural and economic development projects.” The award is being provided through the Rural Community Development Initiative (RCDI) program. RCDI helps community-based development organizations and other groups promote economic development in low-income, rural communities. Awards are provided to public or non-profit intermediaries that are locally-based and skilled in business development and job creation.
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON – The Healthcare Leadership Council (HLC), a coalition of leaders of the nation’s premier health care companies and organizations, has honored U.S. Representative Collin Peterson as a “Champion of Healthcare Innovation” at an award ceremony in Washington, DC. The award presentation took place at the Council’s annual Healthcare Innovations Expo on Capitol Hill. The day-long event is dedicated to showcasing new developments in health care technologies, treatments and practices. This year’s event featured, among other displays, emerging cancer therapies, virtual reality technologies to assist veterans with post-combat stress challenges, and uses of health data sharing to combat opioid abuse and addiction. “We’re on the verge of a remarkable era in American healthcare. Genomic and biologic research, improved data analytics, and advanced mobile technologies are enabling people to live longer, healthier lives,” said HLC President Mary R. Grealy. “To continue this exciting transformation, we need visionary leadership and sound policymaking. We honored Representative Peterson for providing important advocacy and leadership for patients and consumers.” The Healthcare Leadership Council is a coalition of chief executives of the nation’s leading health care companies and institutions. Follow us on Twitter at @HealthInFocus
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Senator Amy Klobuchar, Congresswoman Betty McCollum, and the Minnesota congressional delegation urged the U.S. Department of Transportation to consider Delta Air Lines’ application for service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. In a bipartisan letter to Secretary Foxx, the Minnesota lawmakers highlighted the importance of access to the growing Asian markets for Minnesota businesses and travelers, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in Minnesota. “We write to urge full and fair consideration of Delta Air Lines’ application for a daytime slot pair allowing for service between Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport,” the lawmakers wrote. “Access to growing Asian markets is particularly important to Minnesota businesses, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in our state. In addition, the connecting traffic will strengthen MSP as an international hub and leverage the existing transportation infrastructure and vibrant aviation sector in the Twin Cities.” The full text of the letter the lawmakers sent is below: Dear Secretary Foxx: We write to urge full and fair consideration of Delta Air Lines’ application for a daytime slot pair allowing for service between Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). Earlier this year, we wrote to express our concern that a limited opening of Haneda Airport could make the current route between MSP and Narita International Airport economically unsustainable. We noted that the MSP to Narita route is the only direct flight between Minnesota and Asia. Given the new bilateral aviation agreement with Japan, allowing service between MSP and Haneda is now imperative to maintaining Minnesota’s connection to Asia. Access to growing Asian markets is particularly important to Minnesota businesses, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in our state. In 2015 employees from just 25 businesses in Minnesota took more than 10,000 flights from Minneapolis/St. Paul to Tokyo. Minnesota competes to attract businesses by creating a positive business climate based on good governance, a strong workforce and world-class infrastructure. Losing the only nonstop flight connection to Asia would damage Minnesota’s competitiveness. Delta’s proposal to use MSP as a hub to connect 114 U.S. cities to Haneda will have benefits in Minnesota and beyond. Many Midwestern communities will also benefit from shorter flight times compared to alternative hubs. In addition, the connecting traffic will strengthen MSP as an international hub and leverage the existing transportation infrastructure and vibrant aviation sector in the Twin Cities. Ensuring Minnesota receives a new daytime slot pair is also essential for maintaining a competitive balance in the transpacific market. Currently, robust competition among three global alliances facilitates consumer choice and puts downward pressure on airfares. The limited opening of Haneda Airport has the potential to upset this balance as American Airlines and United Airlines currently control 79 percent of the global Haneda Airport market in conjunction with their Japanese partner airlines. Thank you for your attention to our views. We look forward to working with you on this important issue. ###
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson, Tim Walz, and Rick Nolan, announced new funding for miner safety and health training in Minnesota. The U.S. Department of Labor’s Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) has awarded $289,468 in MSHA State Grants for the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities Program. The three regional technical and community sites - Hibbing Community College, Northland Community and Technical College, and South Central College - conduct mine health and safety training and other activities for the miners, mine operators, and employees working at mining operations throughout Minnesota. “The strength of our mining industry starts with a strong commitment to the safety and health of our hardworking miners,” said Klobuchar. “This new investment will help ensure that Minnesota miners have the training they need to stay safe while on the job.” “Just recently, we honored hard-working men and women who have been injured or died on the job with Workers Memorial Day,” said Franken. “It reminds us how essential it is that our miners and workers have the safest work environment possible—this grant will help provide training and resources to help keep our workers safe and healthy on the job.” “Providing Minnesota miners with the tools they need to remain safe and healthy on the job is necessary to a strong workforce,” Peterson said. “This funding will also ensure the continued success of the Minnesota mining industry.” “America’s mining and steel production and our nation’s industrial base are the foundation of our national economy and security,” Nolan said. “Supporting the health and safety of the hardworking men and women in our mining industry is imperative to ensuring the success of Minnesota families and communities.” The program also makes available to all mines and miners in Minnesota, specific information on the hazards of overexposure to silica dust though three regional health seminars. To assist small mining operations with the development of specific and effective on-the-job task training to better prepare miners, mine managers, and supervisors for the mining season, the program sponsors Collaborative Mine Safety and Health seminars on an annual basis. These seminars provide information on pre-start-up safety and health issues related to the industry, with a special emphasis on the prevention of powered haulage accidents. ###
05.13.2016	On the 158th anniversary of Minnesota becoming a state, the Minnesota Congressional Delegation came together for U.S. Sen. Al Franken's (D-Minn.) sixth annual hotdish competition. Sen. Franken started the friendly "Hotdish Off" as a way to bring the delegation together and celebrate a Minnesota culinary tradition. You can download video B-roll from the event here. Participants recipes can be found here. You can find photos of the competition here. After a blind taste test of all 10 Minnesota Congressional member’s hotdishes, Rep. Tim Walz’s “Turkey Taco Tot Hotdish” was named the winner of the 2016 Hotdish Off. The judges included: · Award-winning Washington Post food critic Tom Sietsema, a native Minnesotan who donned a disguise to maintain his anonymity for when he visits restaurants; · Dorothy Sietsema, Tom’s mother, and a Minnesota culinary authority in own right, who happened to be visiting from Worthington, Minnesota; and · Ryan Jensen, the Founder and Owner of popular DC coffee shops, Peregrine Espresso, and native of Fergus Falls, MN. Rep. Walz’s Turkey Taco Tot Hotdish victory makes it his third hotdish title. “It’s always nice to put aside our differences and come together over some great hotdish,” said Sen. Franken. “I would like to thank all of my colleagues for taking the time out of their busy schedules to join the competition, and congratulate Rep. Walz on his award-winning hotdish. It was delicious. ” “A Hotdish dynasty is born,” Rep. Walz said, after winning his third Hotdish championship. “In all seriousness though, I congratulate Rep. McCollum on her delicious runner-up dish as well, and thank Senator Franken again for putting on this friendly competition. It’s a great way for us to come together and celebrate our heritage, while building bipartisan relationships. As we move forward, let’s carry this spirit of bipartisanship past the Hotdish competition, and work to solve the real challenges we face.” “The Congressional Hotdish competition brings us together for great company and food every year,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This year, my ‘Babe the Brew Ox’ hotdish, as delicious as it was, came up a little short. I congratulate Representative Walz on his victory and look forward to building on this friendly spirit as we work together to serve the people of Minnesota.” “This event is counter to so many in Washington in these days,” said Rep. Peterson. “It’s an opportunity to put partisanship and politics aside and support the state of Minnesota. I always enjoy meeting with my colleagues and friends over a plate of Minnesota hotdish and congratulate Rep. Walz on his victory,” said Rep. Peterson. “The caliber of this competition gets better and better every year,” said Rep. McCollum “Sen. Franken deserves a lot of credit for hosting this event and for making hotdish great again.” “For generations, hotdish has brought Minnesotans together for good food and fellowship,” said Rep. Kline. “I have been pleased to take part in the annual friendly competition among members of the Minnesota delegation over the years and I congratulate all of the participants as we showcase some of our great state’s homegrown and home-cooked recipes.” "This bipartisan event proves that nothing unites Minnesotans like hamburger, cheese, tater tots and cream of mushroom soup," Nolan said. "Blended together at 350 degrees for 45 minutes, these four essential food groups keep our women strong, our men good looking and our children above average." “The best part of the Minnesota Delegation Hotdish Competition this year was tasting all of the wonderful dishes that remind me of our great state,” said Rep. Ellison. “I thank Senator Franken for bringing us together every year, and giving us the opportunity to try some hotdish. Congrats to Rep. Walz on his victory!” “There’s nothing better than bringing some Minnesota flavor to our nation’s capital,” said Rep. Paulsen. “Tastiness is something that elected officials of all political stripes can believe in.” “I am a firm believer of bringing Midwest values to Washington and today we did just that – with hotdish,” said Emmer. “There is nothing like a little Minnesota cooking to bring Members of Congress from all over the political spectrum together. I am hopeful for a future Hotdish Competition win, just as I am hopeful for the future of this great nation.” The other members prepared the following hotdishes: Sen. Franken made Land of 10,000 Calories Hotdish; Sen. Klobuchar made Babe the “Brew” Ox Steak and Ale Hotdish; Rep. Peterson made Collin’s Rockin’ Rabbit “Hop” Dish; Rep. McCollum made Making Hotdish Great Again Hotdish; Rep. Kline made Pizza Pie Hotdish; Rep. Ellison made The Most Beautiful Hotdish in the World: Green Chile-Chicken Casserole; Rep. Nolan made Cousin Jack’s Hot-Rolled, Corrosion-Resistant Pasty Hotdish; Rep. Paulsen made Boundary Waters Bacon, Beef, and Taters Hotdish; and Rep. Emmer made Havana Hotdish. Last year, Rep. McCollum bested the competition with her “Turkey, Sweet Potato, and Wild Rice Hotdish.” Rep. Walz's "Turkey Trot Tater-Tot Hotdish" took the top prize in 2014, and his "Hermann the German Hotdish" took first place in 2013. In 2012, Sen. Franken's "Mom's Mahnomin Madness Hotdish" and former Rep. Chip Cravaack's (R-Minn.) "Minnesota Wild Strata Hotdish" tied for first place. Sen. Klobuchar took top honors in 2011 with her "Taconite Tater-Tot Hotdish." Participants' recipes can be found here. You can download photos of the event here. ###
05.04.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Collin C. Peterson today announced Underwood High School junior Erin Andersen as the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Peterson selected Andersen’s piece from nearly 100 submissions from the Seventh District. Andersen’s artwork, an acrylic painting titled “Girl” will be featured for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, which connects the House Office Buildings to the U.S. Capitol. Her artwork will be part of a display featuring high school artists from all 435 Congressional Districts. “I was happy to select “Girl” as this year’s winner of the Congressional Art Competition and congratulate Erin on this honor,” Peterson said. “There is a lot of talent in the Seventh District and I look forward to seeing Erin’s piece displayed in Washington.” Artwork by competition semi-finalists, Central Minnesota Christian School senior Katrina Broten (“Beauty in Rust”) and Fergus Falls High School senior Dee Gease (“Untitled”), will be displayed in Peterson’s District offices. The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent across the country. The competition began in 1982 as an opportunity for members of Congress to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of their young constituents. Andersen will travel to Washington, D.C. in June for a reception honoring Congressional Art Competition winners from across the country. “Girl” by Erin Andersen ###
03.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today made the following statement following the passing of Congressman Martin Sabo: "Congressman Sabo was an outstanding public servant who left a gigantic legacy in Minnesota and beyond. In 1993, as House Budget Committee Chairman, he skillfully handled competing interests and politics to pass a budget that actually led our government out of a deficit. He reached out to the Blue Dog Coalition that I was leading at the time, and gave us a voice in the process. His bipartisanship and leadership was a strong model that I've continued to follow. "My heartfelt condolences go out to Sylvia and the family members."
03.04.2016	“Thank you Mr. Chairman for holding this hearing. I’m looking forward to hearing from today’s witnesses, welcome to the Ag Committee. “I’ve been urging, for some time now, that the Committee take a good look at the flexibility states have when administering SNAP. I understand that this is done to simplify the process but I worry that it’s gone too far and they now have too much leeway. “During the last farm bill debate I offered a plan to reform categorical eligibility. Of course that didn’t happen but I still have a hard time understanding how states, with both Democratic and Republican governors, are allowed to exceed federal eligibility guidelines and then charge the federal government for the additional expense. This creates a system where we treat people differently in different parts of the country and I don’t think that’s right. “My district, for example, borders North Dakota. North Dakota and Minnesota have different income and asset tests to qualify for SNAP. So people in the same community are being treated differently. “I hope we’ll also be able to take a look at the impact of turning SNAP into a block grant. This, in my opinion, is not a viable option. It would only lead to the creation of an unaccountable slush fund for the states. Block granting SNAP has been supported by some in the past and I hope we don’t find ourselves on that path again. “Again, I look forward to today’s testimony. I thank the Chair and I yield back.”
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Collin Peterson today announced his office is accepting applications for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. The winning artwork will be featured for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, which connects the House Office Buildings to the U.S. Capitol. “I am proud to display the talent of students in the Seventh District and I encourage high school artists to enter their artwork in this contest,” Peterson said. The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent across the country. The Competition began in 1982 as an opportunity for Members of Congress to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of their young constituents. Since then, more than 650,000 high-school students have participated in the nation-wide contest. The grand prize winner will be flown to Washington, D.C. in June for a reception honoring his or her artwork, which will be on display for one year. Two semi-finalists will have their artwork displayed in Peterson’s district offices. Submitted artwork may be up to 28 inches x 28 inches x 4 inches (including the frame) and may be up to 3 inches in depth. Accepted mediums include: Paintings – including oil, acrylics and watercolor Drawings – including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink and markers Collage (two-dimensional) Prints – including lithographs, silkscreen and block prints Mixed Media Computer Generated Art Photography All entries must be original in concept, design and execution. Artwork that is a reproduction of another artist’s work, including photographs, does not qualify for this competition. HOW TO APPLY: To best ensure accessibility for all students, Peterson’s office will be accepting all Congressional Art Competition submissions online. Selection of the winning piece will be determined based upon the photograph submitted with the application. More information is available at https://collinpeterson.house.gov. Faculty or students with questions can also contact Chelsea Cornett in Peterson’s Washington, D.C. Office at 202-225-2165. To apply for the Congressional Art Competition, please submit a photograph of the artwork with the following information to congressional.art@mail.house.gov: Student Name Address Phone Number Artwork Title Medium The deadline for all submissions is Monday, April 25, 2016. ###
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today said legislation passed by the U.S. House will return management of the gray wolf population to Minnesota. The Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement Act of 2015 (H.R. 2406) includes a Peterson-sponsored amendment to delist gray wolves in the Western Great Lakes States from Endangered Species Act protections and return gray wolf management to Minnesota. “Despite overwhelming evidence that the gray wolf population has thrived in the past few years, a single judge decided gray wolves need federal protection. This puts Minnesota farmers and ranchers in the position of having to choose whether to follow the law or protect their livelihoods,” Peterson said. “The bill addresses this problem by returning gray wolf management to the states who are better equipped to manage the wolf population and provide assistance if needed.” Additionally, the bill includes a number of provisions related to hunting and fishing including protecting lead ammunition and tackle from EPA regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act, increasing funding for public target ranges, and insuring federal officials facilitate hunting and fishing on federal public lands.
02.25.2016	“Thank you Mr. Chairman and welcome back to the Committee Secretary Vilsack. I’ve lost count of the number of times you’ve been here during your seven years as Secretary but we always appreciate your time and your advocacy for those of us in rural America. I look forward to your testimony today. “As the Chairman indicated, we are taking a look at the rural economy today. The Committee takes on this review annually and for the past few years we’ve been able to point to strong farm prices as a reason for the rural economy’s success. “While the rural economy remains strong, folks are getting concerned about the potential long-term impacts of deteriorating prices. Of course, this is why those of us on the Agriculture Committee work so hard to pass a farm bill every five years. I do have some concerns with the current bill but it’s at low price times like this that the bill’s safety net is so important. “I think it’s also worth noting the importance of crop insurance. Despite what critics would lead you to believe, the crop insurance program is an effective and responsive tool for farmers. I hope this Committee will remain united against calls for cutting the program. “With that, I know there are a lot of issues members will want to raise today so I will yield back.” ###
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced a $7.6 million investment to support the Marsh Lake Restoration Project. In December, the lawmakers sent a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers urging strong funding to ensure the construction phase of the project begins in 2016. By upgrading the Marsh Lake dam, the project will restore connectivity with nearby lakes and streams. These modifications will improve the water quality of the surrounding area. “The Marsh Lake Project is critical to improving water quality along the Upper Minnesota River near Appleton,” Klobuchar said. “This funding will ensure that this important project moves forward, which will help upgrade the Marsh Lake dam and improve water quality in the surrounding area.” “This project will improve water quality and support local conservation efforts,” said Franken. “Marsh Lake is the only new ecosystem restoration construction project nationwide that the Army Corps is funding this year, and I’m proud that our efforts to get full funding were successful.” “The Marsh Lake Restoration Project is very important to the region and this funding will allow for construction to begin,” Peterson said. “Upgrading the Marsh Lake dam will allow lake levels to fluctuate and natural aquatic vegetation to grow which will return Marsh Lake to a prime duck hunting destination.” The full text of the lawmaker’s letter from December is below: Dear Assistant Secretary Darcy: We write to urge the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) to include funding for the Marsh Lake Ecosystem Project in its Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Work Plan. The Marsh Lake Ecosystem Project, authorized in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (WRRDA), is critical to restoring the ecosystem along the Upper Minnesota River near Appleton, Minnesota. This project will upgrade the Marsh Lake dam, restoring connectivity with nearby lakes and streams. These modifications will improve water quality, which in turn benefits aquatic plants, fish species, waterfowl (including Minnesota’s largest breeding colony of American white pelicans), and the rest of the ecosystem. The Marsh Lake Ecosystem Project should be a top candidate for funding now that appropriations have been enacted for the remainder of FY 2016. The Explanatory Statement accompanying the FY 2016 Consolidated Appropriations Act provides for one new construction start for an environmental restoration project. Furthermore, it makes significant funding available for authorized projects, including environmental restoration or compliance projects. Marsh Lake is the only Aquatic Ecosystem Restoration new start in the FY 2016 Civil Works Budget for construction. We request that you provide no less than the $2.7 million requested for the Marsh Lake Ecosystem Project in the FY 2016 Civil Works Budget. With design of the project nearly complete, the Corps has indicated it plans to execute a project partnership agreement with the Upper Minnesota River Watershed District and initiate the first construction contract in FY 2016. This funding is essential for this project to advance. We look forward to working with you to move this project forward and ensure its timely completion. Sincerely, ###
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Collin Peterson (D-MN) led 52 other Members to introduce H.R. 4520, a bipartisan resolution recognizing the legacy of Justin Smith Morrill, the founder of the land-grant university system, by posthumously awarding him the Congressional Gold Medal. “As a farmer and graduate of Washington State University, I am personally grateful, along with the millions of men and women who have attended land-grant universities, for the legacy of the Honorable Justin Smith Morrill,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Morrill was a visionary statesman whose work provided millions with access to higher education across our country. His many contributions to the fabric of the American education system and culture deserve the distinction of a Congressional Gold Medal. Justin Smith Morrill’s many accomplishments will continue to inspire Americans for generations to come.” “The land-grant university system established by Justin Smith Morrill plays an important role in agricultural research, extension and educational programs. Through land-grant universities, researchers have been able to help farmers increase productivity, prevent plant and animal disease, improve human nutrition and health, and discover and utilize new technologies. I am pleased to honor Justin Smith Morrill’s legacy,” Peterson said. Background: The Honorable Justin Smith Morrill (April 14, 1810 – December 28, 1898), the son of a blacksmith and farmer, was born in Strafford, Vermont. He prospered as a merchant and businessman in his early years and served in public office the remainder of his life. Morrill was elected to six terms in the U.S. House of Representatives (1855-1867) and six terms in the United States Senate (1867-1898), making him the longest serving Member of Congress in the 19th Century. During his tenure, he chaired the House Committee on Ways and Means, the Senate Committee on Finance, and the Senate Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds. In Congress, he authored his namesake, the Morrill Act of 1862 which created the land-grant university system. Today, land-grant and other public universities award nearly 1 million degrees annually and perform more than $37 billion in research. In 1890, he authored the second Morrill Act, which created historically black land-grant universities (that recently celebrated their 125th anniversary). As the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Buildings and Grounds, he served as the principle advocate for financing and constructing the Thomas Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress and planned the location of the U.S. Supreme Court Building. He also raised funds to complete the unfinished Washington Monument and advocated for the Smithsonian Institution throughout his service in Congress. For the text of the resolution, click here. Introduced by Reps. Newhouse and Peterson, additional cosponsors include: 1. Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA) 2. Rep. Rick Allen (R-GA) 3. Rep. Brad Ashford (D-NE) 4. Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-OH) 5. Rep. Dan Benishek (R-MI) 6. Rep. Mike Bishop (R-MI) 7. Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) 8. Rep. Ken Buck (R-CO) 9. Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL) 10. Rep. William Lacy Clay (D-MO) 11. Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA) 12. Rep. Michael Conaway (R-TX) 13. Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) 14. Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) 15. Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA) 16. Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA) 17. Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-OH) 18. Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH) 19. Rep. Christopher Gibson (R-NY) 20. Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) 21. Rep. Gwen Graham (D-FL) 22. Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) 23. Rep. Alcee Hastings (D-FL) 24. Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX) 25. Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) 26. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) 27. Rep. Trent Kelly (R-MS) 28. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) 29. Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) 30. Rep. Frank Lucas (R-OK) 31. Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) 32. Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM) 33. Rep. James P. McGovern (D-MA) 34. Rep. Ann Kuster (D-NH) 35. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) 36. Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL) 37. Rep. Randy Neugebauer (R-TX) 38. Rep. Rick Nolan (D-MN) 39. Rep. Steve Pearce (D-NM) 40. Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI) 41. Rep. Phil Roe (R-TN) 42. Rep. David Rouzer (R-NC) 43. Rep. Austin Scott (R-GA) 44. David Scott (D-GA) 45. Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY) 46. Rep. Jason Smith (R-MO) 47. Rep. Glenn Thompson (R-PA) 48. Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX) 49. Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN) 50. Rep. Timothy Walz (D-MN) 51. Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) 52. Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL) ###
02.12.2016	“Thank you Mr. Chairman. And thank you Chairman Massad, for joining us today. “I’m looking forward to hearing more about the Commission’s efforts to harmonize its rules with foreign regulators, create margin rules as a protection in the un-cleared swaps market, address cybersecurity and automated trading, and improve data collection. I would also like to hear the Chairman’s thoughts on the state of the derivatives markets today, given the fluctuations we’ve seen in the markets since the start of the year. “The CFTC’s mission is to protect the integrity of the derivative markets. In turn, the CFTC protects not just our constituents who use these markets, but the economy as a whole. Chairman Massad, I look forward to your testimony and I yield back the balance of my time.”
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC [02/04/16]—U.S. Sen. Al Franken was joined by Sen. Amy Klobuchar, and Reps. Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, Rick Nolan, and Erik Paulsen in a bipartisan push to fix tribal schools that have fallen into disrepair in Minnesota and across the country, including the Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig School on the Leech Lake Indian Reservation in Northern Minnesota. In a letter to the White House, the group of Minnesota lawmakers pressed for more funding to fix and rebuild schools in Indian Country like the Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig School, which is plagued by numerous problems—poor construction, electrical issue, mold, lack of classroom space, and limited handicap access. “The substandard conditions at these [tribal] schools—including in our state of Minnesota—are not conducive to educational achievement, and they unfairly restrict learning opportunities for the Native youth attending these schools,” wrote the group. “We have seen the deplorable conditions of these schools first hand in our state. The Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig School in Minnesota is in dire need of replacement. You can read a copy of the letter here. Sen. Franken, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, started pressing the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) to fix schools in need of repair in 2009. He’s raised this topic in many hearings over the years, and he has consistently pressed the Secretary of the Interior—who oversees funding for schools on Indian Country—to increase support for school construction. Sen. Franken has also pressed the White House on funding for Indian school construction several times, including in a call he had with the budget director earlier today. While Sen. Franken has been able to successfully fight for more funding to help Indian school construction around the country, the Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig remains underfunded, and he will continue working to fully repair or rebuild the school. Senator Klobuchar has been a strong advocate for federal funding to replace the Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig-High School. She has pushed the Administration to address BIE school construction backlog and written to the Appropriations Committee urging strong funding for school construction. In 2014, after Klobuchar and the delegation wrote to the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI) inviting DOI leadership to the school, Interior Secretary Sally Jewell and Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs Kevin Washburn visited the school in August 2014 and saw the conditions firsthand. Collin Peterson is the Ranking Member on the House Committee on Agriculture, and is a strong advocate for funding for rural schools. Congressman Peterson is a consistent supporter of rural and tribal schools which are an important part of our state’s economic future. Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus. Congressman Walz began his teaching career on Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota and understands the critical need for improvements to our Indian schools. He will continue to press for proper funding to ensure students have a safe environment to learn. Congressman Nolan, who represents five of the six Bands of the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe, has been an outspoken proponent of funding to bring 63 dilapidated and dangerous BIE schools across the nation up to standard. Included in the Education reauthorization bill (H.R. 5) approved in December 2015 was Nolan’s bipartisan amendment declaring: “It is . . . the policy of the United States to ensure that Indian children do not attend school in buildings that are dilapidated or deteriorating, which may negatively affect the academic success of such children.” That amendment passed the House unanimously during earlier debate on the measure. Congressman Paulsen has highlighted the issues that plague Bureau of Indian Education schools, such as the Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig school, on the House floor. He has also pressed the Department of Interior to continue its work to begin a new round of funding for the Campus-wide Replacement Program. While Congress has made progress in providing adequate funding for the BIE, he looks forward to continuing his work on making sure every student has access to the highest quality education possible. ###
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with U.S. Representatives Rick Nolan, Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, and Tim Walz, sent a letter today urging the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to protect water quality in Voyageurs National Park. In a letter, the lawmakers urged the USACE to include funding for the Voyageurs National Park Clean Water Project in the USACE's FY 2016 Civil Works program budget. The project aims to increase water quality and long-term wastewater treatment solutions in the park while creating jobs and boosting economic growth. The federal assistance will help support progress in the current efforts to protect Voyageurs National Park, which is enjoyed by thousands of visitors a year. “As elected officials representing Minnesota, we are rightly concerned about protecting the water quality of our nation’s premier water-based Park,” the lawmakers wrote. “Unfortunately, these waters can be contaminated by wastewater from existing developments. The water quality degradation threatens the long-term health of the ecosystem and the economic health of the tourism industry upon which a considerable share of the local economy is based. Based on these factors and the numerous benefits to Minnesota’s environment and rural economy, we ask you to allocate environmental infrastructure funding to this project.” Voyageurs National Park is located in Saint Louis County and Koochiching County and was authorized by Congress in 1971. It covers 84,000 acres of water and 134,000 acres of land, and is enjoyed annually by thousands of visitors from across the world. The full text of the letter is available below: Dear Assistant Secretary Darcy: Thank you for your response on December 14, 2015 to our letter regarding funding for the Voyageurs National Park (VNP) Clean Water Project under the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Army Civil Works program budget. With the passage of appropriations legislation for FY 2016, we again urge the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to support the VNP Clean Water Project as it allocates funds for environmental infrastructure projects. VNP was authorized by Congress in 1971 and formally established in 1975. It is a national treasure, with 84,000 acres of water and 134,000 acres of land enjoyed annually by thousands of visitors from across the United States, Canada, and other countries. As elected officials representing Minnesota, we are rightly concerned about protecting the water quality of our nation’s premier water-based Park. Unfortunately, these waters can be contaminated by wastewater from existing developments. The water quality degradation threatens the long-term health of the ecosystem and the economic health of the tourism industry upon which a considerable share of the local economy is based. The VNP Clean Water Project is critical for Minnesotans in the rural areas of Koochiching and St. Louis Counties where poverty far exceeds the statewide rate. In addition to the jobs and regional economic impact accompanying this project, it would provide higher water quality and long-term wastewater treatment solutions. In the FY 2016 omnibus, Congress provided an additional $55 million for environmental infrastructure projects such as the VNP Clean Water Project. Furthermore, Congress instructed to USACE to prioritize environmental infrastructure projects with great economic impact, projects in rural communities, and projects in counties with high poverty rates. Based on these factors and the numerous benefits to Minnesota’s environment and rural economy, we ask you to allocate environmental infrastructure funding to this project. Thank you for your consideration of this request. We look forward to your response and to working with you to move the VNP Clean Water Project forward. Sincerely, ###
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz, today urged the Administration to provide crucial funding for the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System (LCRWS). Congress recently approved an additional $47 million for work on authorized Bureau of Reclamation water projects. In a bipartisan letter to the Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation, the lawmakers pressed for strong funding to advance construction on the Lewis and Clark project. When completed, the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System will cover a service territory of more than 5,000 square miles and provide drinking water to 300,000 residents and businesses in southwest Minnesota, northwest Iowa and southeast South Dakota. The letter was also signed by Senators Charles Grassley (R-IA), John Thune (R-SD), and Mike Rounds (R-SD), as well as Representatives Steve King (R-IA) and Kristi Noem (R-SD). “Authorized rural water projects within the BOR play a key role in providing reliable, quality drinking water to communities in our states,” the lawmakers wrote. “One such project, the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System (LCRWS), is an authorized BOR rural water project that when complete will cover a service territory of more than 5,000 square miles. As you consider how to allocate the funding for ongoing projects, we request the strongest possible level of funding for the LCRWS project to advance construction in a meaningful way.” The full text of the lawmakers’ bipartisan letter is below: Dear Commissioner López: The Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Bill provides the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) with an additional $47 million for ongoing work on authorized rural water projects. Authorized rural water projects within the BOR play a key role in providing reliable, quality drinking water to communities in our states. One such project, the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System (LCRWS), is an authorized BOR rural water project that when complete will cover a service territory of more than 5,000 square miles. As you consider how to allocate the funding for ongoing projects, we request the strongest possible level of funding for the LCRWS project to advance construction in a meaningful way. In 2000, Congress authorized LCRWS to supply high quality, dependable drinking water to more than 300,000 residents and businesses in southwest Minnesota, northwest Iowa and southeast South Dakota. Since this project was authorized, the federal government has committed nearly $230 million to the Lewis & Clark system. The Lewis & Clark project is currently 67 percent complete and has seen significant investment at the local, state, and federal level, allowing for the construction of intake wells, a water treatment plant, pumping stations, and pipelines that now connect 12 of the 20 member systems. Local project sponsors and the three states have collectively prepaid 100 percent of the non-federal cost share of $154 million. In addition, over the past two years Minnesota has provided $41 million and South Dakota has provided $8.7 million in state money to advance the project. The remaining cost to finish the entire project is just over $200 million. Rural water projects generate both short-term and long-term economic activity and expand economic development opportunities. The member communities awaiting connection to LCRWS have shown the ability to attract economic development if sufficient water supply is made available through the project, but a lack of the necessary resources for the timely completion of this critical infrastructure project has thwarted economic progress. We look forward to working with you until the LCRWS project is complete and the federal government has fulfilled its commitment to LCRWS project partners. Sincerely, ###
12.04.2015	“Thank you Mr. Chairman and good morning everyone. And welcome today’s witnesses. “The topic of today’s hearing is very timely, given what’s happening across the countryside right now. Commodity prices have fallen, and will likely continue to fall, and land values continue to increase. This has a lot of farmers asking if they will have access to the financing they need for the next planting season. “Access to credit is one of the most important tools we can provide to our farmers and ranchers. The farm bill’s commodity programs work hand in hand with the crop insurance program to provide a safety net to ensure continued access to credit. Having a crop insurance policy in place gives lenders the certainty to know farmers will make good on their commitment and pay back their loans even during difficult times. “So, with that said, I look forward to today’s testimony and I yield back.”
12.04.2015	WASHINGTON – House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson today made the following statement after the EPA released its 2014-2016 Renewable Fuels Standard targets. “A strong biofuels industry is an essential component of the rural economy and necessary to achieving our full potential of producing the next generation of domestic biofuels. Today’s announcement isn’t everything we wanted, but is an improvement on the disastrous proposed rule. The Administration deserves credit for listening to our concerns and now needs to immediately start work on the numbers and get the program back on track.”
11.19.2015	Thank you Chairman Rouzer and Ranking Member Costa, and Chairman Hunter and Ranking Member Garamendi, of the Transportation Committee Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, for holding today’s hearing. And, welcome today’s witnesses. Today, we’re focusing specifically on transportation, with witnesses representing the maritime industry. Transportation-related issues have been raised at previous Agriculture Committee hearings on food aid so I think this topic is important for us to further explore as we continue our review into international food aid programs in advance of the next farm bill. Potential changes to existing food aid programs and cargo preference rules could impact the long-held partnership between the maritime industry and American agriculture. I look forward to today’s testimony on this issue, as well as our witnesses’ perspectives on the improvements we made to U.S. food aid programs in the 2014 Farm Bill. Again, I thank our witnesses for appearing before us today and the Subcommittee Chairs and Ranking Members for holding this hearing.
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON – The Healthcare Leadership Council (HLC), a coalition of leaders of the nation’s premier health care companies and organizations, has honored U.S. Representative Collin Peterson as a “Champion of Healthcare Innovation” at an award ceremony in Washington, DC. The award presentation took place at the Council’s annual Healthcare Innovations Expo on Capitol Hill. The day-long event is dedicated to showcasing new developments in health care technologies, treatments and practices. This year’s event featured, among other exhibits, new technologies for blood glucose monitoring, innovative treatment options for mental illness, and telehealth systems that make physicians accessible to patients 24 hours a day, seven days a week. “As we strive to conquer illness, elevate population health and make our healthcare system more affordable and sustainable, the answer lies in dynamic and continual innovation,” said Healthcare Leadership Council President Mary R. Grealy. “For this to happen, we need federal policies that encourage progress and new breakthroughs in care. We applaud Representative Peterson for the leadership, vision and commitment that patients and healthcare consumers need.”
11.04.2015	“Thank you Mr. Chairman. And I’d like to welcome today’s witnesses to the Agriculture Committee. A strong agriculture sector and stable food supply is critical to national security. And agriculture has an important role to play when it comes to our country’s national security interests, something I don’t think a lot of people really understand. Today’s hearing will allow us to examine the threats and any vulnerability to agriculture and the economic impact these could have. I have particular interest in HPAI and look forward to discussing this and other threats. With that, I yield back, Mr. Chairman.”
10.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, Governor Mark Dayton, and Representative Collin Peterson today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a $10,000,000 Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grant for Willmar’s Rail Connector and Industrial Access project. There is a significant bottleneck in the current regional rail network that blocks rail crossings and halts local traffic. The project will alleviate congestion, expand rail capacity and improve safety in the region by updating Willmar’s rail infrastructure. The benefits of this project will extend throughout Minnesota and region as it enhances accessibility, efficiency, and reliability of the state’s entire transportation system. “With the increase in freight rail traffic in Minnesota, it’s absolutely critical that we invest in our rail infrastructure to ensure rural businesses can get their goods to market while improving safety for communities along rail routes,” Klobuchar said. “That is why I worked to help secure a TIGER grant for the Willmar Rail Connector project which will help alleviate congestion, boost economic opportunity, and improve safety in Willmar. “Investing in Minnesota's transportation infrastructure not only strengthens our economy but also makes our families and communities safer," Franken said. "I worked together with state and local officials to get federal support for the Willmar Wye project because we know how important it is to the region. This funding means fewer trains in downtown Willmar, safer roads, and new possibilities for economic development."‎ "This funding will help make essential improvements to reduce traffic congestion, support area businesses, and enhance the public's safety," said Governor Mark Dayton, who worked with the Legislature last session to invest $3.77 million in the project, and urged the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to provide federal support. "I thank Congressman Peterson, and Senators Franken and Klobuchar for their efforts to secure this additional federal investment." “With the re-routing of train movement from the middle of town, Willmar residents will be much safer, and traffic throughout the community will improve,” Peterson said. “This is a great example of a public-private partnership that will improve safety, livability and economic sustainability in the community.” The Willmar’s Rail Connector and Industrial Access project is a public-private partnership including the Minnesota Department of Transportation (MnDOT), the City of Willmar, Kandiyohi County, the Regional Economic Development Commission, and Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway. MnDOT estimates that the project will return three times its investment in benefits to this rural community and region. ###
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today made the following statement on the budget deal: “I'm pleased that we have an agreement to fix the crop insurance cuts and not open the farm bill. We have assurances that the cuts will be removed and the farm bill will not be raided. We produced a fiscally responsible and bipartisan farm bill in 2014 that saved $23 billion. We've done our part. I can now support the budget agreement with these assurances. "This bipartisan deal also prevents significant cuts to seniors, stops Medicare Part B premiums from skyrocketing, and ensures that we preserve the full faith and credit of the United States. I am hopeful that in future negotiations we move through regular order so that the committees of jurisdiction can fully vet the impact of bills for the people we represent." ###
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson announced that Minnesota has been awarded $8 million for the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Biofuels Infrastructure Partnership (BIP) program. The funds will be used to expand access to biofuel blender pumps across the state. "Minnesota is well-positioned to expand market access for biofuels benefiting farmers, consumers, and our state’s economy," Peterson said. "We know from experience in our state that consumers will choose to use more biofuels when given an opportunity. This investment in the Minnesota program to install blender pumps will improve biofuel availability to consumers statewide and also send a strong market signal to fuel retailers about the economic potential of installing blender pumps." The State of Minnesota currently operates a successful public-private partnership which has significantly increased opportunities for consumers to use higher blends of ethanol. The State’s application for additional resources will expand this operational program. The combination of a strong existing program, significant stakeholder interest, and increased local cash and in-kind commitments makes Minnesota uniquely positioned to provide a roadmap for other states to overcome the blend wall. ###
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today made the following statement on the crop insurance cuts included in the “Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015”: “The provision included in the new budget agreement would re-open the 2014 Farm Bill and in my opinion has the potential to wipe out the federal crop insurance program. The language in the budget deal would require a new Standard Reinsurance Agreement that would reduce from 14.5 percent to 8.9 percent the cap on the overall rate of return for insurance providers. “While an 8.9 percent rate of return might seem like a lot, the way these things are calculated has the effect of an actual rate of return that’s closer to 1 or 2 percent. “Crop insurance is an extremely risky industry and we already are seeing market consolidation in the industry due to previous cuts. The effect of this cut will be to destroy the industry altogether. These negotiators have no clue what they’re doing and I will fight this provision and work to defeat this bill.” ###
10.29.2015	“Thank you Mr. Chairman and welcome, today’s witnesses, to the Committee. I’m looking forward to your testimony. “There are a lot of interesting things happening with big data and agriculture. These all have the potential to provide huge benefits to not just farmers, but consumers, and the economy as a whole. “Adopting new technologies can make farming more efficient, enabling farmers to make wise use of inputs, which helps to keep costs low. Technology can also help connect farmers with local businesses and consumers, opening up potential new business opportunities. “Of course, there are concerns about these advances, particularly when it comes to privacy. This is something I think we’re going to need to keep an eye on. I am encouraged that commodity groups and agriculture technology providers have started a productive dialogue. I hope that relationship continues and that we can learn more about these efforts during today’s testimony. “One final point I think we need to take a look at is rural broadband. All of this technology is great but it’s not going to do anyone any good if they don’t have reliable broadband. We have made a lot of progress but there are still large areas of the countryside that are without reliable service. I hope we can continue to work with USDA to continue our efforts in this area. “So again, I think there are a lot of interesting points for us to discuss today. I thank our witnesses for appearing before the Committee and yield back.” ###
10.23.2015	“Thank you Chairman Conaway. “I'm pleased that we can follow up on what I thought was a good discussion in June. As I said then, I think we need to keep a close eye on how other countries subsidize agriculture. This is especially important to keep in mind during our debates on the farm safety net. We need a level playing field if we are going to be competitive in a global market. “Today's hearing will cover a broad array of subsidies, ranging from dairy support programs in Canada and the EU; sugar subsidies in Brazil, Thailand, India, Mexico and the EU; and subsidies for wheat, corn, rice, and cotton in China, India and Turkey. I hope we can also continue the discussion that began at our last hearing on this issue, about the impact of advanced developing countries increasing their subsidies. “Again, I don't think it's fair that developing countries, no matter how advanced, can designate themselves for special treatment. I also think it's time for the United States to start challenging those countries that fail to meet their WTO commitments. “I look forward to the testimony and I yield back.”
10.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced 17 bipartisan members of the Congressional Biofuels Caucus sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy in opposition to the agency’s proposed Renewable Volume Obligation numbers for 2014, 2015 and 2016. “The RFS is a crucial part of our domestic production of renewable fuels which works to boost our agricultural economies here at home and cut our nation’s dependence on foreign oil,” Peterson said. “I am disappointed in the cuts the EPA proposed for the RFS this spring and I hope the agency recognizes the disastrous effects this could have on rural America.” The letter asks the EPA to follow Congressional intent of the RFS law and avoid triggering a provision which allows the agency to reset volumes that are lagging behind due to EPA’s continued delay of RFS implementation. Full text of the letter is below: Dear Administrator McCarthy: As members of the Congressional Biofuels Caucus, we write to express our concern regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed rule on renewable volume obligations (RVOs) for 2014 and subsequent years under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). We urge you to make significant changes to this proposed rule, use criteria found in statute for determining domestic biofuel volumes, and follow Congressional intent when it passed the RFS. The RFS is a key piece of our nation’s energy policy and it is working. The RFS has driven billions of dollars of investment in the biofuel sector in the United States and has created and supported hundreds-of-thousands of U.S. jobs, while also enhancing our nation’s energy security and delivering reliable renewable energy to market. Setting aggressive biofuel volume requirements is essential to continuing growth in our homegrown energy sector. Unfortunately, the EPA’s proposed rule is inconsistent with the intent of the law. The proposed rule adopts a zero-growth approach and proposes limiting the annual blending targets based on available infrastructure—a criteria that is not included in the EPA’s clearly defined statutory waiver authority and was expressly rejected by Congress during the conference committee of the 2005 Energy Act (P.L. 109-58). We are also concerned that the EPA’s continued delay and misinterpretation of the RFS could provide yet another avenue to shortchange the future of the biofuel industry. The RFS includes a “reset” provision that takes effect after 2016 if the EPA has reduced any of the mandated amounts by at least 20% for two consecutive years or by at least 50% for a single year. Should the EPA undermine the biofuel industry with insufficient volume requirements in the final rule, and use those very targets as the justification for a reset, it would add insult to injury for an industry already hamstrung by uncertainty. Instead we urge the EPA to set forth a strong methodology that reflects the original Congressional intent and is consistent with the long-term energy production goals of the RFS. Certainty in the biofuel market will unfreeze capital investments that have been waiting on the sidelines for far too long. The decisions your agency makes in the coming weeks and months about the volumes for 2014, 2015, and 2016, as well as a decision on the biomass-diesel volume for 2017, will set the trajectory for the biofuel industry for decades to come. We again urge you to make significant changes to the final rule and follow clear Congressional intent in existing statute. Sincerely, ###
10.09.2015	“Mr. Speaker, I support removing restrictions on the export of crude oil from the United States and urge my colleagues to vote in support of H.R. 702. “Current export laws are outdated. Since these laws were last visited, nearly 40 years ago, U.S. oil production has increased significantly. The United States is now the world’s largest oil producer. “Studies have shown that lifting the current ban on crude oil exports would create jobs, many in rural areas. We have seen the benefits domestic drilling can provide in my neighboring state of North Dakota. “We need to do everything we can to support the use and production of domestic energy. H.R. 702 is an important part of that. Following this bill’s approval, I hope all members of Congress will continue to support an all-the-above domestic energy production strategy by considering the national security and economic development benefits of not just oil production, but biofuel production and related policies. “Again, Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H.R. 702 and yield back.”
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with U.S. Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, and Rick Nolan, sent a letter today urging the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to protect water quality in Voyageurs National Park. In a letter, the lawmakers urged the USACE to include funding for the Voyageurs National Park Clean Water Project in the FY 2016 Civil Works Plan. The project aims to increase water quality and long-term wastewater treatment solutions in the park while creating jobs and boosting economic growth. The federal assistance will help support progress in the current efforts to protect Voyageurs National Park, which is enjoyed by thousands of visitors a year. “As elected officials representing Minnesota, we are rightly concerned about protecting the water quality of our nation’s premier water-based Park,” the legislators wrote. “This project is critical for residents in the rural areas of Koochiching and St. Louis Counties. In addition to the jobs and regional economic impact accompanying this project, it would bring the environmental benefits of increased water quality and long-term wastewater treatment solutions.” Voyageurs National Park is located in Saint Louis County and Koochiching County and was authorized by Congress in 1971. It covers 84,000 acres of water and 134,000 acres of land, and is enjoyed annually by thousands of visitors from across the world. The full text of the letter is available below: Dear Assistant Secretary Darcy: We write to urge the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to include the Voyageurs National Park Clean Water Project in the FY 2016 Civil Works Plan for the Mississippi Valley Division, St. Paul District Office. This project is critical for residents in the rural areas of Koochiching and St. Louis Counties. In addition to the jobs and regional economic impact accompanying this project, it would bring the environmental benefits of increased water quality and long-term wastewater treatment solutions. As you may know, Voyageurs National Park was authorized by Congress in 1971 and formally established in 1975. It is a national treasure, with 84,000 acres of water and 134,000 acres of land enjoyed annually by thousands of visitors from across the United States, Canada and many other countries. The interconnected waterways of the Park provide an unparalleled opportunity to explore the Northwoods lake country. As elected officials representing Minnesota, we are rightly concerned about protecting the water quality of our nation’s premier water-based Park. Unfortunately, these waters can be contaminated by wastewater from existing developments. The water quality degradation threatens the long-term health of the ecosystem and the economic health of the tourism industry, upon which a considerable share of the local economy is based. Recognizing the importance of clean water, local community leaders joined with St. Louis and Koochiching Counties to create the Voyageurs National Park Clean Water Joint Powers Board (VNPCWJPB). To date, the VNPCWJPB has secured well over $15 million from state and local sources to implement a comprehensive wastewater plan. However, we are concerned that without approximately $4 million of federal assistance from the Corps, progress made to protect the Park, especially near the Island View area on Rainy Lake, will be slow. Previous analysis found that the majority of sewage-generating parcels within the project area do not have proper wastewater treatment facilities. Additionally, many of the parcels that do are nearing the end of their lifespan or are out of compliance. These manmade problems are complicated by the geography of the area, including the remoteness of the Park, adjacent developments, and fragile soil conditions of the region caused by numerous rock outcroppings and bluffs. These issues have been raised to the Corps’ St. Paul District, who share our concerns and join the National Park Service, multiple local governments, state leaders and agencies in support of this request for federal assistance. Additionally, given that the project meets the majority of the criteria as outlined in the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015 (P.L. 113-235) and the accompanying report language specific to the Corps’ priorities for Environmental Infrastructure projects, we believe the moment is right to move forward. For example, this region is expecting an aging population with fixed incomes and increased uncertainty surrounding its core timber and paper products industry. The timing for interagency cooperation and assistance would be especially fitting as the National Park Service celebrates its Centennial in 2016, demonstrating a coordinated national effort to protect not only Voyageurs but all our National Parks so they continue to provide quality outdoor opportunities for future generations. Given these factors, and the numerous statewide benefits to our environment and economy, we again urge you to include the Voyageurs National Park Clean Water Project in the FY 2016 Civil Works Plan for the Mississippi Valley Division, St. Paul District Office. Thank you for your strong consideration of this request. We look forward to your response and working with you to move this project forward.
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson and Rick Nolan, today announced that Northwest Technical College will receive a $300,000 grant through the Economic Development Administration to support the construction of a technical training center on its Bemidji campus. The center, which will feature a new welding and fabrication lab, will help increase training opportunities for middle- and high-skilled manufacturing trades. “In order to compete in the 21st century, we need to ensure our students and workers have the skills today for the jobs of tomorrow,” said Klobuchar. “We have businesses in Minnesota that need workers and workers that need jobs, but oftentimes their skills just aren’t matching up. This support will help close this gap by providing students at Northwest Technical College in Bemidji with the skills they need to compete in the global economy.” “All across the country, there are millions of open jobs that could be filled today if there were workers who had the right skills,” said Franken. “This support will go a long way towards bringing together Northwest Technical College and businesses to train workers for in-demand jobs. Filling these open jobs will benefit workers, businesses, and communities in Minnesota and around the country.” “There are jobs available across Minnesota that aren’t being filled because of a lack of skilled workers. I hear about this from business owners throughout the Seventh district,” said Peterson. “This grant will allow Northwest Technical College to provide the advanced skills needed in today’s job environment. They will be able to continue their work to provide affordable and accessible educational opportunities in a variety of career fields, helping to keep Minnesota business competitive and support our economy.” "This grant for Northwest Technical could not have come at a better time to help fulfill critical needs,” said Nolan. “In touring manufacturing businesses throughout our region, employers tell me again and again of the difficulties they encounter in finding workers highly skilled in welding, fabrication and other construction trades. This grant is seed money for a training center that will pay for itself many times over through the people who will go on to enjoy great careers supporting our communities with their good paying jobs." The Economic Development Administration, a bureau within the Department of Commerce, awards grants through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds.
09.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz, are calling for the strongest level of funding possible for the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System (LCRWS). In a letter to the Senate and House Appropriations Committees, and the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittees, the lawmakers pressed for the funding necessary to advance construction on the LCRWS. When completed, the LCRWS will cover a service territory of more than 5,000 square miles and provide drinking water to 300,000 residents and businesses in southwest Minnesota, northwest Iowa, and southeast South Dakota. “A basic purpose of a rural water system is to improve the quality of life of its customers and expand economic development opportunities,” the lawmakers wrote. “The LCRWS project is an authorized Bureau of Reclamation rural water project that when complete will provide water to 300,000 residents and businesses in southwest Minnesota, northwest Iowa and southeast South Dakota. The federal government has committed more than $229 million, while local project sponsors and the three states have collectively pre-paid 100 percent of the non-federal cost share of $154 million. As you work towards a final agreement on the Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill, we write to urge the strongest level of funding possible for the Lewis & Clark Regional Water System (LCRWS) project and the Bureau of Reclamation Rural Water account.” The full text of the letter is below: Dear Chairman Cochran, Vice Chairwoman Mikulski, Chairman Alexander, Ranking Member Feinstein, Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Lowey, Chairman Simpson and Ranking Member Kaptur: As you work towards a final agreement on the Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill, we write to urge the strongest level of funding possible for the Lewis & Clark Regional Water System (LCRWS) project and the Bureau of Reclamation Rural Water account. The (LCRWS) project is an authorized Bureau of Reclamation rural water project that when complete will provide water to 300,000 residents and businesses in southwest Minnesota, northwest Iowa and southeast South Dakota. LCRWS is currently 65 percent complete and has seen significant investment at the local, state, and federal level, allowing for the construction of intake wells, a water treatment plant, pumping stations, and pipelines that now connect 12 of the 20 member systems. The federal government has committed more than $229 million, while local project sponsors and the three states have collectively pre-paid 100 percent of the non-federal cost share of $154 million. The remaining cost to finish the entire project is just over $200 million. Our constituents in southwest Minnesota continue to be frustrated by the lack of water. A basic purpose of a rural water system is to improve the quality of life of its customers and expand economic development opportunities. The member communities awaiting connection to LCRWS have shown the ability to attract economic development if sufficient water supply is made available through the project. For example, in Worthington, Minnesota a large pork processing plant needs a reliable water supply before it can expand its operations. This is just one proposal out of many demonstrating the potential for economic growth with proper investment in LCRWS. Governor Dayton and the Minnesota State Legislature recognize the urgency caused by the lack of federal funding and over the last two years have approved $41 million in state money to advance the project. This investment provided by the State of Minnesota is in addition to its original commitment, which the state has already paid into the project. We believe there needs to be a suitable federal match to this state funding that is at least an equal level of funding in Fiscal Year 2016 for Bureau of Reclamation Rural Water Projects as was provided in Fiscal Year 2015. We look forward to working with you and your committees until the LCRWS project is complete and federal government has fulfilled its commitment to the Minnesota LCRWS project partners. Sincerely,
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today made the following statement after voting against the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Today I opposed the Iran Nuclear Deal because, in the end, there is no guarantee this will prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. There are some good elements to the agreement but the price we will have to pay is too high. Iran will receive $100-150 billion in frozen assets in the next few months and will have at least $50 billion to spend immediately. Lifting sanctions will only strengthen Iran’s economy and enable their sponsoring of terrorism. “I strongly reject the notion that voting against this agreement is a vote to go to war. I continue to believe that any agreement must constrain Iran’s nuclear infrastructure. Keeping current sanctions in place and working toward an improved agreement is the right path forward for the security of the United States and our allies.”
09.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Baudette International Airport $246,026 for infrastructure improvements. “Infrastructure improvement projects boost public safety and help to create good, middle class jobs,” Klobuchar said. “These grant funds will help the Baudette Airport keep its facilities up-to-date and safe for all.” “Making investments in our transportation and infrastructure systems is key to strengthening Minnesota’s economy,” Franken said. “These resources will improve airport safety in Baudette, help create jobs, and go a long way towards updating Minnesota’s overall transportation infrastructure.” "Improving the Baudette International Airport will help provide an economic boost to Baudette and the surrounding communities," Peterson said. "The infrastructure improvements made through this grant will help the airport meet the region's transportation needs." The grant will allow the airport to conduct its master plan study and rehabilitate its runway.
09.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Thief River Falls Regional Airport $110,250 for infrastructure improvements. “The funds from this grant will help the Thief River Falls Airport make critical investments in its infrastructure,” Klobuchar said. “Infrastructure improvement projects like this one will boost airport performance and enhance safety.” “Making investments in our transportation and infrastructure systems is key to strengthening Minnesota’s economy,” Franken said. “These resources will allow Thief River Falls Airport to best serve the region as it grows and will go a long way towards updating Minnesota’s overall transportation infrastructure.” "A strong local airport can greatly benefit the local economy," Peterson said. "This grant will allow the Thief River Falls airport to improve its current infrastructure to better meet the region's transportation needs." The grant will allow the airport to conduct an environmental study.
09.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Detroit Lakes – Wething Field Airport $266,268 for infrastructure improvements. “Improving our infrastructure is key to boosting public safety and helping to create good, middle class jobs,” Klobuchar said. “This award will help the Detroit Lakes Airport stay up-to-date and safe for all of its travelers and employees.” “Making investments in our transportation and infrastructure systems is key to strengthening Minnesota’s economy,” Franken said. “These resources will allow Detroit Lakes Airport to best serve the region as it grows and will go a long way towards updating Minnesota’s overall transportation infrastructure.” "This grant will help the Detroit Lakes airport make important infrastructure improvements," Peterson said. "Keeping our local airports in good working order will also help boost the local economy." The grant will allow the airport to update its master plan study.
09.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Todd Field Airport outside of Long Prairie $122,396 for infrastructure improvements. “The funds from this grant will help the Todd Field Airport make the necessary strides towards improving its infrastructure,” Klobuchar said. “This investment represents a key component in helping support good jobs across the region while improving public safety.” “Making investments in our transportation and infrastructure systems is key to strengthening Minnesota’s economy,” Franken said. “These resources will allow Todd Field to best serve the region as it grows and will go a long way towards updating Minnesota’s overall transportation infrastructure.” "Strong infrastructure is essential for regional airports to meet the area's transportation needs," Peterson said. "This grant will help the Todd Field Airport make important infrastructure improvements." The grant will allow the airport to conduct its environmental study.
09.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Moorhead Municipal Airport $32,040 for infrastructure improvements. “This grant award will help the Moorhead Municipal Airport make critical investments in infrastructure improvements,” Klobuchar said. “Projects like these not only boost the local economy but they also help support good jobs.” “Making investments in our transportation and infrastructure systems is key to strengthening Minnesota’s economy,” Franken said. “These resources will improve airport safety in Moorhead, help create jobs, and go a long way towards updating Minnesota’s overall transportation infrastructure.” "This grant will help improve the Moorhead Municipal Airport," Peterson said. "These improvements will benefit the local economy and help the airport meet regional transportation needs." The grant will fund the design phase for the airport’s construction of two hangar buildings.
09.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Hawley Municipal Airport $186,477 for infrastructure improvements. “Infrastructure investments like these boost our economy by helping to create good jobs while improving public safety,” Klobuchar said. “This rehabilitation project will benefit the Hawley Municipal Airport for years to come.” “Making investments in our transportation and infrastructure systems is key to strengthening Minnesota’s economy,” Franken said. “These resources will improve airport safety in Hawley, help create jobs, and go a long way towards updating Minnesota’s overall transportation infrastructure.” "This grant will enable the Hawley Municipal Airport to rehabilitate its taxiway," Peterson said. "Improving the airport's infrastructure will help the community and benefit the local economy." The grant will allow the airport to rehabilitate its taxiway.
09.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Collin Peterson, today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Crookston Municipal Kirkwood Field Airport $40,399 for infrastructure improvements. “These critical investments in our infrastructure help create good jobs while enhancing public safety,” Klobuchar said. “This award will greatly benefit all who travel through the Crookston Municipal Airport.” “Making investments in our transportation and infrastructure systems is key to strengthening Minnesota’s economy,” Franken said. “These resources will improve airport safety in Crookston, help create jobs, and go a long way towards updating Minnesota’s overall transportation infrastructure.” "Investing in infrastructure improvements will allow the Crookston Municipal Airport to meet the region’s transportation needs," Peterson said. "Additionally, these improvements will help boost the local economy." The grant will allow the airport to construct its fuel farm, improve its access road and rehabilitate aprons along with a taxiway.
09.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with U.S. Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, and Rick Nolan, sent a letter to U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) Secretary Tom Perez in support of a grant proposal from Jobs for the Future, a nonprofit operating in Minnesota, that would help implement its Next Generation Industrial Manufacturing Technician (IMT) Apprenticeship program. Jobs for the Future is a national nonprofit organization that addresses the workforce skills gap and helps provide workers with the training needed for higher-wage jobs. The IMT Apprenticeship program, which is administered by DOL, supports apprenticeships in high-growth occupations. This grant would allow the IMT Apprenticeship program to build on successful pilot programs that already exist in Minnesota and are run by the AFL-CIO Working for America Institute, in partnership with Jobs for the Future. “Skill development in advanced manufacturing is critical to our nation’s competitiveness and the development of career pathways for our manufacturing workforce,” the legislators wrote. “We are eager to see this innovative apprenticeship program expanded in Minnesota and ask you to give it full and fair consideration. The Next Generation Industrial Manufacturing Technician (IMT) Apprenticeship program will help to make American manufacturers and workers in our state and in the country more competitive in the global economy.” The full text of the letter is available below: Dear Secretary Perez, We are writing to express our full support for the American Apprenticeship proposal submitted by Jobs for the Future, directed to the U.S. Department of Labor. The program will help to implement the “Next Generation Industrial Manufacturing Technician (IMT) Apprenticeship” for production workers. This grant proposal is in partnership with a number of labor-management intermediaries and the AFL-CIO Working for America Institute. The IMT Apprenticeship program is a new model of registered apprenticeship for production workers. It builds on the successful pilot programs already running in Wisconsin, Michigan and Minnesota by the AFL-CIO Working for America Institute in partnership with Jobs for the Future. Skill development in advanced manufacturing is critical to our nation’s competitiveness and the development of career pathways for our manufacturing workforce. We are excited about the prospects of expanding and enhancing the IMT program in Minnesota through this new grant. If awarded, 200 or more individuals in the state of Minnesota will be enrolled in the IMT apprenticeship program, learning vital skills to stay competitive in today’s changing workplace. We are eager to see this innovative apprenticeship program expanded in Minnesota and ask you to give it full and fair consideration. The Next Generation Industrial Manufacturing Technician (IMT) Apprenticeship program will help to make American manufacturers and workers in our state and in the country more competitive in the global economy. Thank you for your consideration.
07.17.2015	Washington, DC – Today Representatives Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Collin Peterson (D-MN), and Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) announced the launch of the 4-H Congressional Caucus. The Caucus will provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to stay connected with 4-H programs and activities across the country, as well as participate in 4-H events on Capitol Hill. 4-H is America’s largest youth development organization, empowering young people through programs and experiences that develop critical life skills and preparing them for life today and a career tomorrow. Thousands of 4-H professionals and educators, as well as 600,000 volunteers serve nearly 6 million youth in every county in the United States. “I am proud to have 4-H headquartered in my district and to launch the Caucus today,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “From STEM to healthy living, I have seen first-hand the positive impacts 4-H activities have on students in Maryland, and look forward to working with my colleagues to support these important programs.” "As a proud 4-H alumna and the mom of three, I know firsthand how important 4-H can be to helping students succeed,” Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers said. "4-H provides the kinds of hands-on, innovative activities that really get children excited about learning." “Like many farm kids, I was active in 4-H while growing up in rural Minnesota. The organization continues to do great work and the 4-H Caucus is an excellent avenue to advocate for all they do across the country. I look forward to working with my colleagues to grow this important caucus and help our young men and women reach their highest potential,” Congressman Peterson said. Congressman Fortenberry said, “I owe a great deal to 4-H, which provided extraordinary opportunity and good formation when I was growing up. As a proud alum, I continue to carry these experiences with me. I am pleased to see young people eager to engage in deepening their understanding of our civic culture through 4-H.” Delbert T. Foster, Executive Director, 1890 Programs at SC State University, Chairman, Extension Committee on Organization and Policy, and a member of National 4-H Council’s Board of Trustees, expressed his enthusiasm and gratefulness for the renewed support and leadership of the 4-H Congressional Caucus. “As the youth development program of our nation’s land-grant universities, and the Cooperative Extension System as well as the United States Department of Agriculture, 4-H has played a vital role in growing leaders and innovators for more than 100 years. In fact, there are 25 million 4-H alumni, including 46 Members of Congress who grew up in 4-H,” said Foster. “The 4-H community is grateful to members of Congress for their leadership in re-launching the Caucus to highlight and grow 4-H positive youth development programs in rural, urban and suburban communities throughout America.”
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced that the Glencoe Municipal Airport has been awarded a $1,798,903 Department of Transportation grant to make important infrastructure improvements. “As a pilot, I understand firsthand the significant infrastructure improvements made possible by this grant,” Peterson said. “Keeping our rural airports in good operating condition is important to meeting the area’s air transportation needs and will greatly benefit the local economy.” The grant will fund the construction of a 3,300 foot parallel taxiway to eliminate the need for aircraft to back-taxi on Runway 13/31; the full rehabilitation of 6,030 square yards of the existing apron pavement that has reached the end of its useful life; and the acquisition of 0.50 acres of land for development to allow the airport to control compatible land use and to protect the airport from objects that would penetrate aeronautical surfaces.
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON, July 9, 2015 – The AgriBank District Farm Credit Council (ADFCC) presented its 2015 Friend of Farm Credit Award to U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson of Minnesota. Peterson received the award for his long history as a leader in U.S. American agriculture policy. ADFCC members were in Washington to talk to members of Congress about issues important to agriculture and rural communities in the AgriBank District. “When it comes to having an effective advocate in Washington, farmers, ranchers and rural communities can always rely on Congressman Peterson," said Stan Claussen, a farmer from Montevideo, Minnesota, and chairman of the AgriBank District Farm Credit Council. “As ranking member of the House Committee on Agriculture, Representative Peterson has an impact on everything that touches rural communities and agriculture. He has a rare ability to reach across the aisle and was a leader in the marathon efforts to pass the 2014 Farm Bill, which supports rural communities and agriculture across the AgriBank District and the nation.” Farm Credit supports rural communities and agriculture with reliable and consistent credit today and tomorrow. The Farm Credit System is a nationwide network of borrower-owned lending institutions with the singular mission of providing a reliable source of credit for the nation's farmers and ranchers. Farm Credit provides more than one-third of the credit needed by those who live and work in rural America — more than $217 billion in loans, leases and related services. The AgriBank District Farm Credit Council represents Farm Credit farmers and ranchers in a 15-state area from Wyoming to Ohio and Minnesota to Arkansas. About half the nation's cropland is located within the AgriBank District.
07.02.2015	Washington – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, John Kline, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, Erik Paulsen, Rick Nolan and Tom Emmer are urging Canadian officials to exempt U.S. fishing guides from a $230 work permit to fish in Canadian waters. In a letter, led by Rep. Peterson, to Canadian Ambassador Gary Doer, Consul General Jamshed Merchant and Senior Representative to the United States Rob Merrifield the Members said that the fee goes against the long-standing tradition of cooperation between the United States and Canada to encourage these types of guides and its impact could negatively impact outdoor tourism activities in the region. The Minnesota Congressional Delegation was joined in their request by members of the North Dakota Congressional Delegation. The full text of the delegation’s letter is below: Dear Ambassador Doer, Consul General Merchant, and Honorable Merrifield: We are encouraged by the ongoing dialogue regarding the new Employer Compliance Fee of $230 and its assessment on U.S. border lake fishing guides seeking seasonal work permits. Due to the late notification period, we write to ask for an exemption in the current year for fishing guides being assessed this fee. As you know, self-employed fishing guides working on lakes which straddle the U.S.-Canada border are allowed an exemption from Labour Market Impact Assessment (LMIA) pursuant to R205(b) (exemption code C20). This exemption is based upon the principle that Canadian fishing guides are accorded a similar privilege to work on the U.S. side of a border lake. We write to urge that this same principle of mutual benefit should be applied in the new fee structure. As written, the Employer Compliance Fee is assessed cross-industry with the intent of funding employer compliance measures. We understand the goal of this new policy is to address broader immigration related concerns. However, we feel this fee is being unfairly placed on U.S. border lake fishing guides who are small in number and do not represent a threat to Canadian labor markets. Furthermore, notice of this new fee was given in February 2015, mere months before the current fishing season began and giving impacted parties little time to prepare for the additional expense. The impact of this fee extends beyond fishing guides due to their strong connection with resort owners who rely on outdoor tourism as part of their business model. In the spirit of the tradition of cooperation between our two countries on related issues, we would like to formally request an exemption in the year 2015 for U.S. border lake fishing guides from the Employer Compliance Fee. We also hope to continue the dialogue on how these guides can be formally excluded from this fee assessment in the future, given their unique place in the labor market. Sincerely, ###
06.11.2015	(Detroit Lakes, Minn.) -- Congressman Collin Peterson is pleased to announce that Jonathan Linden and Trey Tollefson, both graduates of Willmar Senior High, have received appointments to attend U.S. Service Academies. Jonathan Linden was offered and accepted an appointment to West Point, and will be reporting for Cadet Basic Training during the summer. “It was a pleasure to nominate Jonathan not only because of his outstanding academic and extra-curricular work, but also because he has shown great leadership in his community,” Peterson said. “Jonathan has a great passion for military history and has a strong desire to serve our country.” Along with his academic accomplishments, Jonathan has participated in many activities such as baseball, wrestling, basketball, student council, Willmar Fire Explorers, National Honor Society and Boys State. Jonathan is the son of Thomas and Cindy Linden. Trey Tollefson was offered and accepted an appointment to the Air Force Academy. “I nominated Trey because he had an impressive record in academics and athletics, and because of his demonstrated leadership in his church and community,” Peterson said. “After learning about his unwavering commitment to serving our country, I knew he would make a great cadet.” Trey has been active in activities like football, hockey, baseball, track, speech and Boys State, and logged many hours as a private pilot. He is the son of Dan and Julie Tollefson.
06.11.2015	(Detroit Lakes, Minn.) -- Congressman Collin Peterson is pleased to announce that Kalvin Krause of Baudette has received and accepted an appointment to attend the U.S. Naval Academy. “It was a pleasure to nominate Kalvin to the Naval Academy not only because of his strong academic and extra-curricular achievements, but because of his leadership and commitment to his community,” Peterson said. “Kalvin has a great desire to serve his country and he will be a great cadet.” Along with his academic accomplishments at Lake of the Woods School, Kalvin has been active in choir, football, hockey, robotics, track & field and band. He also has served his community as a volunteer for many organizations, including the United Way, Salvation Army, Relay for Life and Youth Hockey. Kalvin is the son of Gene and Jeni Krause.
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today joined members of the Minnesota and Wisconsin Congressional delegations in a letter to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald seeking answers on veteran health care service billing errors. The letter follows a VA discovery of unbilled co-pays for veteran inpatient care over a five-year period. The co-pays, ranging from $1,000 to $3,000 are expected to appear in upcoming monthly statements sent to veterans. “This is another troubling instance of the VA not adequately serving our veterans. We must keep our promises to those that serve, which includes access to quality and affordable health care,” Peterson said. “I urge the VA to conduct a thorough review and provide a solution that will ensure our veterans have access to the benefits they rightly earned. The letter requests that the VA provide answers to a series of questions before notifying or seeking payment from veterans. Full text of the letter.
06.11.2015	June 11, 2015 The Honorable Robert McDonaldSecretary of Veterans AffairsUnited States Department of Veterans Affairs810 Vermont Avenue NWWashington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: We are concerned about potential impacts on Minnesota and Wisconsin veterans from the Consolidated Patient Account Center team’s review of inpatient co-pay charges for years 2011 to 2015. Recently, we were notified the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) discovered unbilled co-pay amounts for inpatient care provided to veterans over a five-year period at the Minneapolis Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Most concerning, veterans will be immediately assessed co-pays ranging from $1,000 to $3,000 because the VA erred in not charging veterans at the time of care. These charges, in the thousands of dollars, will unexpectedly appear on the veteran’s upcoming monthly statement. This VA review is likely to cause confusion, frustration, and stress for many veterans in Minnesota and Wisconsin who sought care at the VA. Many of our veterans live on fixed incomes or may not have the resources immediately available to cover the unexpected costs caused by the VA’s erroneous billing procedures. The VA must ensure any adverse impacts are mitigated to the fullest extent possible. We ask that the VA delay action in notifying veterans and pursuing collection of the unbilled co-pay amounts until the following questions have been addressed: 1. Why did the VA’s Consolidated Patient Account Center team initiate this review of billing procedures and inpatient co-pay charges for the years 2011 to 2015? 2. What authority, under law, does the VA rely on to require veterans to pay for unbilled services years after receiving care that was not billed at the time of their initial care? 3. Is the VA conducting a similar nationwide review of inpatient co-pay charges? 4. Is the VA conducting a similar review of outpatient co-pay charges? 5. How many veterans in Minnesota and Wisconsin will be billed for VA services due to the erroneous payment collection procedures at the VA for the years 2011 to 2015? How many veterans nationally are impacted? 6. Will the VA provide a grace period to alleviate the immediate impact on veterans or provide veterans the opportunity to appeal the decision to charge for services the VA failed to bill at the time of care? 7. What is the waiver process for veterans not required to pay the co-pay and what documentation is required by the veteran to receive a waiver of payment? What are the specific criteria needed to qualify for a waiver? 8. What is the VA’s estimate of the total amount of valid co-pays unbilled over the 2011 to 2015 timeframe and what does the VA intend to do with the money collected? 9. What additional infrastructure does the VA intend to put in place to serve veterans during this process, to include: additional documentation to support the unbilled co-pays, extra in-person customer service desk hours to discuss billing questions with veterans, and extended Health Resource Center hotline hours for veterans looking to resolve co-pay issues? The care of our veterans is a top priority. Our veterans sought care at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in good faith and should not be suddenly saddled with thousands of dollars in bills years later due to the VA’s inability to properly track, record, and bill for services. Each year, Congress appropriates billions to the VA for administering medical care and benefits earned by our veterans through their service to our nation. The VA must investigate how these charges went unbilled and immediately correct any systemic issues. Thank you for your consideration of our request. We look forward to working with you to address this issue. Should you have any questions, your staff can contact Ryan Silverberg in Congressman John Kline’s office at (202) 225-2271 or ryan.silverberg@mail.house.gov. Sincerely, AMY KLOBUCHAR United States Senator AL FRANKEN United States Senator RON JOHNSON United States Senator TAMMY BALDWIN United States Senator JOHN KLINE United States Representative RICK NOLAN United States Representative TOM EMMER United States Representative COLLIN PETERSON United States Representative SEAN DUFFY United States Representative RON KIND United States Representative TIM WALZ United States Representative BETTY MCCOLLUM United States Representative ERIK PAULSEN United States Representative KEITH ELLISON United States Representative
06.04.2015	--As Prepared for Delivery-- “Thank you Chairman Conaway. “I think this is an important topic for the Committee to address because what is often lost during debates on our farm safety net is the fact that other countries also provide agriculture subsidies to producers. If we are going to compete in a global marketplace we need to be on a level playing field. “That being said, I am concerned that some of these so-called advanced developing countries have started to increase their subsidies and are arguing that we should push ahead with negotiations in the Doha round. I’m not sure it’s fair that developing countries, no matter how advanced, can designate themselves for special treatment. “Based on the testimony of our witnesses, I think it is time for the United States to start challenging Brazil, China, India and others when they fail to meet their WTO commitments. “I realize that the testimony covers a lot of ground, but to the extent possible I hope that our witnesses will be able to give us a little more guidance on specific subsidies that we should consider challenging and what our chances of winning such challenges might be. “I hope our witnesses will be able to address some of these questions. I look forward to their testimony and I yield back.”
05.29.2015	WASHINGTON – House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson today made the following statement after EPA’s release of the “Waters of the U.S.” (WOTUS) rule. "I am disappointed but not surprised that the EPA has decided to move forward with a rule that would increase confusion and red tape. Farmers, ranchers, local communities and businesses all expressed concern with the negative impacts of this rule. Despite that, EPA either wasn’t willing to listen or simply just does not get it. “I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to explore all available options to ensure these arbitrary and subjective regulations never go into effect."
05.29.2015	Peterson: RFS Announcement a Setback for Rural America WASHINGTON – House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson today said the Renewable Fuels Standards (RFS) released today by the EPA will set back production of domestic renewable fuels and hurts the rural economy. Peterson’s statement is below. “I had hoped that the long period of time EPA took to make these announcements meant that they would get it right and follow the path set by Congress. Unfortunately, it was a mistake to think the EPA could administer this program without screwing it up and this is yet another misguided announcement from the Agency. “Without a strong biofuels industry, we will never be able to reach our full potential when it comes to producing the next generation of homegrown biofuels. The rural economy has remained strong in part due to the jobs provided by biofuels production. This announcement puts those jobs and rural economic growth in danger. “I appreciate USDA’s attempts to do what they can to support infrastructure for the biofuels industry, but these efforts are no substitute for a strong RFS policy and I don’t think the reality on the ground has been taken into account. We should be looking at the real world impacts domestic biofuel production has in rural America and not put the future of biofuels at risk.”
05.22.2015	A few days ago, the House of Representatives passed another short-term, limited patch to address the growing funding crisis for transportation in this country. Meanwhile, shovel-ready projects in the 7th District stand idle. Time is of the essence. In Minnesota, our lingering, cold winters leave a short window for the construction season. Long-term certainty is the only way to ensure that local communities can have the time and flexibility they need to respond to unique transportation needs we face in rural areas. Minnesotans are also unfortunately familiar with the consequences of cutting corners when it comes to our roads and bridges. As one of few remaining Blue Dogs, I know that Congress can still work together to get the big stuff done. Last Congress, I worked with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to shepherd a five-year farm bill through this chamber and into law with strong bipartisan support. We need that same kind of cooperation and forward thinking to address the looming shortfall in federal transportation funding. When this temporary funding patch expires in July, harvest season will be upon us. Strong investment in our transportation network through rail, bridges and roads is necessary for getting goods to market in a safe and reliable manner. Without it, our townships, cities and counties are left to shoulder increasing costs. Continuing this current path is unsustainable. We can't afford to wait for Congress to kick the can down the road again. I have heard from folks across the 7th District who are ready for Congress to quit the partisan bickering and work together to get the job done. We need a sustainable, long-term solution to meet our transportation needs and we need it yesterday.
05.22.2015	Over the years, I've had the opportunity to attend Memorial Day services in many rural communities throughout my congressional district. All of these solemn events feature the wonderful patriotic music that I and so many others enjoy, a colorful display of flags, and the dedicated uniformed veterans and their families who work hard each year to make sure these ceremonies happen. Sometimes the weather is fair, and occasionally it's raining, but it's always heartening to see the crowds of people who attend these events, even in these communities where populations are aging and dwindling. I'm proud to say that in the Seventh Congressional District, our patriotism and our memories are strong. Those we lost in the World Wars, Korea, Vietnam, and the Gulf remain in our hearts and minds. Younger generations feel first-hand the grief from those killed in Iraq and Afghanistan. As a country, we must always remember to keep our promises to those who have served us. That is why supporting our military, their families, and all veterans has been - and always will be - a top priority for me. Recently we observed the 70th anniversary of VE Day, and I am reminded of the simple, yet fitting words of Elmer Davis, Director of the U.S. Office of War Information during WWII: "This nation will remain the land of the free only so long as it is the home of the brave." Whether you're attending a ceremony, or just spending some time reflecting on Memorial Day, keep in mind the families of those who have lost their loved ones so that they will always know they do not bear these burdens alone.
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced that CentraCare Health – Long Prairie has been awarded $189,654 for the first year of a three-year grant program, totaling more than $540,000. The grant was made through the Department of Health and Human Services’ Rural Health Care Services Outreach Grant Program. The award will fund a tele-neurology patient navigator program providing discharged stroke patients from ten regional hospitals and eight home health agencies with continuum of care services to optimize post-stroke outcomes and reduce re-admission rates. “This grant will help CentraCare expand their reach and the services they provide to Minnesotans, especially those in rural areas like the Seventh District,” Peterson said. “Having the tele-neurology program available to our rural patients will give them the benefit of specialized care in their hometowns. This will ensure easy follow-up appointments and better recovery for stroke victims,” said Ken Holmen, MD, CentraCare Health President and CEO. CentraCare Health is a not-for-profit health system that provides comprehensive, high-quality care to people throughout Central Minnesota.
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON – The U.S. Chamber of Commerce presented Congressman Collin Peterson with the annual Spirit of Enterprise Award for his support of pro-growth, pro-jobs policies during the second session of the 113th Congress. “Minnesota’s Seventh District businesses provide good jobs for district residents and play a major role in keeping the district’s economy strong,” Peterson said. “I appreciate the Chamber’s support and thank them for this recognition.” “For 50 years, through our How They Voted scorecard, the U.S. Chamber has been recognizing legislators from both sides of the aisle who have worked to pass legislation and enact policies that bolster our country’s economy, create jobs and keep our nation’s spirit of enterprise alive,” U.S. Chamber President and CEO Thomas J. Donohue said. “The Spirit of Enterprise award honors those members of Congress like Congressman Collin Peterson who has recognized the need and shown a commitment to pro-growth policies in the second session of the 113th Congress.” The Chamber honored 208 members of the House of Representatives and 40 members of the Senate with the award. The Chamber scored members on eight Senate votes and 14 House votes, including terrorism risk insurance (TRIA) and tax extenders. Also scored were votes to ensure free speech, fund transportation and infrastructure, and to further U.S. energy independence. According to the scorecard, in 2014, Peterson received a 93 percent rating with the Chamber and collectively holds a 64 percent ranking during his tenure in Congress. Peterson was also recognized by the U.S. Chamber for his record during the first session of the 113th Congress.
04.24.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Al Franken (D-MN) along with Representative Collin Peterson (D-MN) are fighting to prevent Breckenridge families from having to purchase unnecessary flood insurance. In a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the Minnesota lawmakers urged FEMA to delay moving forward with the final Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Wilkin County until it incorporates the flood protection that is in place for Breckenridge. FEMA plans to release maps in May that show which areas in Wilkin County are at an increased risk of flooding and will be required to have flood insurance, but the maps currently do not take into account the flood protection project in Breckenridge, so residents already protected by the project would have to buy flood insurance they do not need. “By failing to account for Breckenridge’s flood protection project, FEMA will create an unnecessary burden for residents,” Klobuchar said. “That is why I am urging FEMA to only move forward with flood maps that include the flood protections already in place, and I will continue pushing to ensure families in Breckenridge are not harmed by additional bureaucratic red tape.” “It just doesn’t make any sense for FEMA to finish their flood maps for Breckenridge without taking into account the flood protection project that the Army Corps of Engineers has essentially finished," said Sen. Franken. "Residents of Breckenridge shouldn’t have to pay for flood insurance that they don’t need, just because of a lack of communication between two federal agencies. FEMA needs to do the right thing here and delay finalizing these maps until they’re updated to reflect the reality in Breckenridge.” “The actual diversion channel was completed in 2005, is operational, and has prevented more than $130 million in damages in both Minnesota and North Dakota,” Peterson said. “While there are minor damage repairs still taking place, we all know that this project does protect homeowners and there is no reason for FEMA to implement flood insurance premiums on homeowners who don’t need it. We have repeatedly tried to reason with FEMA on this matter, but they can’t seem to find enough common sense to figure this out.” The full text of the lawmakers’ letter is available below: Dear Administrator Fugate and Assistant Secretary Darcy: We write to express significant concerns regarding FEMA’s decision to move forward with mapping of Wilkin County, Minnesota that does not take into account the significant completion of the Breckenridge Flood Risk Management project, which already fully protects the city from flooding. We urge FEMA to delay moving forward with the final Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Wilkin County unless it incorporates the flood protection that is in place for the City of Breckenridge. We share the frustration of local officials in Wilkin County who rightly point out that the maps would add communities into the floodplain that are currently protected from flooding. FEMA Regional staff indicated on an April 2 conference call with members of our staffs, the Army Corps of Engineers, St. Paul District (Corps), and the Mayor of Breckenridge that these maps will become effective on May 18, 2015. By moving forward with outdated maps, FEMA will be forcing the majority of Breckenridge residents to pay for flood insurance they do not need. In turn, this will increase administrative burden as the federal government will ultimately end up reimbursing these residents for purchasing unnecessary insurance. We strongly urge FEMA to work directly with the Corps to determine a swift, yet reasonable, timeline for the completion of the FIRM for Wilkin County which fully recognizes the flood protection in place for the City of Breckenridge. Thank you for your consideration of this request and we look forward to working with you to resolve this important matter. Sincerely, ###
04.17.2015	Dear Secretary Moniz: We are alarmed by the Department of Energy’s abrupt decision to reverse course and withdraw a proposed waiver from new energy efficiency standards for water heaters used as part of utility demand response programs which will adversely impact our constituents. We ask the Department of Energy to immediately grant an energy efficiency standard exemption in regards to large-volume water heaters that are used in demand response and electric thermal storage programs. In March 2010, the Department issued an energy efficiency standard requiring 200 percent efficiency for large capacity electric resistance water heaters. This regulation effectively prohibits the manufacture of electric resistance waters heaters with more than 55 gallon capacity, which is a common appliance in homes across the United States. Stakeholders from electric utility, environmental, manufacturing, and energy efficiency organizations have been working with the Department of Energy for years to find a solution to the unintended consequences of this regulation. As a product of this collaboration, the Department proposed a waiver to the rule over two years ago. However, three weeks before the rule was slated to take effect, the Department suddenly pulled the waiver without notice to stakeholders who have worked together since the efficiency standard was proposed in 2010. Furthermore, the Department cited a study and a small scale pilot project regarding the capabilities of heat pump water heaters to justify their action. The study was not peer reviewed or available for comment from stakeholders such as energy providers who are technological experts in the industry. The conclusions drawn by the Department from the study and pilot research are one-sided and fail to incorporate concerns about the technical and economic viability of heat pump water heaters as part of demand response systems at this time. This is unacceptable. Increased energy efficiency is a shared goal, but energy providers, manufacturers and consumers will be negatively impacted if the rule does not accommodate large capacity hot water heaters which provide a variety of other benefits like integrating higher levels of renewable energy resources and increasing grid reliability. Pulling the waiver instantly blocked all of the progress previously made by stakeholders, and most alarmingly, ignores an agreement that was reached in good faith. Finally, the Department recently created an exemption for two classes of solar water heaters and should expeditiously move to do the same for large-volume water heaters. Given the significant Congressional interest in the issue and the rule’s April 16, 2015 implementation date, we urge you to immediately grant a waiver regarding the Applicability of Energy Conservation Standards for large-volume water heaters. Sincerely, Collin C. Peterson Tom Emmer Jeff Duncan Jim Costa Walter B. Jones Kevin Cramer Tom Rice Tim Walz Bill Huizenga Ron Kind Erik Paulsen Vicky Hartzler John Kline Rodney Davis Reid Ribble Kristi Noem Rod Blum Rick Nolan Sean Duffy Members of Congress
04.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today joined members of the U.S. House to introduce the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015. The legislation would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw the proposed “Waters of the U.S.” (WOTUS) rule and develop a new rule based on input from stakeholders. “EPA’s proposed WOTUS rule has the potential to regulate our farmers and ranchers out of business, putting the entire rural economy in jeopardy. This legislation is needed because the EPA does not seem to grasp the real-world impact WOTUS would have on our farmers and local communities,” Peterson said. The legislation requires input from state, county and local government officials and agencies be taken into account when proposing a new rule. “Having input from all stakeholders and taking a careful look at the costs and benefits of a proposed rule is necessary to understanding the impact regulations will have on all involved and also help reduce some of the confusion surrounding the issue,” Peterson said.
04.17.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Collin Peterson and Rick Nolan today announced that Central Minnesota’s Initiative Foundation has been awarded a $250,000 grant from USDA Rural Development’s Rural Community Development Initiative (RCDI) program. “The work done by the Initiative Foundation is so important to keeping Central Minnesota’s economy on the right path. Through this grant, the Foundation will be able to broaden their assistance to our region’s low-income rural communities and help them take on important economic development projects,” Peterson said. "This grant and worthy projects it funds will contribute to more jobs, more business activity and ultimately a better quality of life for so many people across our region," Nolan added. “This grant funding will enable us to serve up to nine additional communities through our Thriving Communities Initiatives (TCI) program while continuing to provide intensive technical assistance to the communities we are already serving,” said Kathy Gaalswyk, Initiative Foundation president. “We are so grateful to the USDA’s Rural Community Development Initiative. They are a key partner when it comes to building the capacity and opportunities for income-eligible rural communities in Central Minnesota.” The Initiative Foundation, based in Little Falls, is a regional community foundation serving the 14 counties of Central Minnesota. Through grants, loans, leadership development and philanthropic services the Foundation helps local leaders from rural communities carry out action plans that strengthen home towns. Through past partnerships with the USDA’s RCDI, the Initiative Foundation has increased the capacity of more than 900 local leaders representing 40 low-income rural communities and one federally recognized tribe. These rural leaders have since undertaken an array of housing, facilities, renewable energy, community and economic development projects and have leveraged more than $10 million in additional funding. RCDI grants support rural housing, community facilities and economic development projects. Funds may be used to develop child care facilities; provide education, technical assistance and training; conduct strategic planning, and conduct other projects that help local communities develop their capacity. Eligible grant recipients are non-profit housing and community development organizations.
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has approved a $1 million Rural Economic Development Loan for Agralite Electric Cooperative. These funds will assist with construction of a railroad unloading track capable of storing one million gallons of propane. “This is great news that will help to ensure Minnesotans have access to the propane needed to heat their homes during the fall and winter months when people need it the most,” Peterson said. “Making important infrastructure improvements is necessary to providing sufficient propane supplies for Minnesota communities. The $1 million loan will assist with the expansion of Alliance Midstream, LLC Benson Propane Terminal by purchasing and installing equipment related to propane rail offloading facility.
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the state of Minnesota have agreed to provide $220,000 for wolf management activities in Minnesota. The announcement follows a Peterson-led Congressional effort urging resources be made available for wolf depredation programs. “This is welcome news for farmers and ranchers who currently don’t have a way to address wolves threatening their livestock. I’m pleased to see the state and USDA come together to address this issue,” Peterson said. “I’ll continue to work in Congress to find a long term solution to return gray wolf management back to Minnesota.” Under the agreement, USDA and the state of Minnesota will each provide $110,000 to fund wolf damage management activities in Minnesota through the end of fiscal year (FY) 2015. A December 2014 U.S. District Court decision reinstated gray wolves under the protections of the Endangered Species Act in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan. This designation took away the ability for states to manage federally protected gray wolves but did nothing to restore the depredation services needed for individuals to protect their livelihoods. Peterson has introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 884, which would address this issue. Read the letter requesting wolf management resources.
03.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today led a bipartisan coalition urging emergency resources be made available for wolf depredation efforts in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan. Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar and Reps. Rick Nolan, Tim Walz, John Kline and Tom Emmer joined Peterson in making the request to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack. “We believe this support will help address concerns with problem wolves in the short-term as we pursue a long-term solution to return wolves to state management,” the members of Congress wrote. A December 2014 U.S. District Court decision reinstated gray wolves under the protections of the Endangered Species Act in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan. This designation took away the ability for states to manage federally protected gray wolves but did nothing to restore the depredation services needed for individuals to protect their livelihoods. This leaves farmers and ranchers without a legal avenue to address wolves that are threatening their livestock. Full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Vilsack: We respectfully request that emergency resources be made available for wolf depredation services in Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan. A recent U.S. District Court decision returned gray wolves under federal protection, leaving our constituents without a legal course of action to deal with predatory wolves. Without a depredation program in place, we are concerned that wolf attacks will remain unchecked, threatening the livelihoods of our constituents. When wolves were previously listed under Endangered Species Act protections, the Department of Agriculture’s Wildlife Services depredation program provided trapping services for constituents who were having problems with predatory wolves. This program offered much-needed services that helped people everyday who felt the safety of their families, livestock, or pets were in jeopardy. The misguided court decision eliminated the ability for farmers to protect their livestock and does nothing to restore these critical depredation services. To address this problem in Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan, we urge you to locate the resources necessary to run wolf depredation programs. In Fiscal Year 2010, the last year in which wolves were federally protected, the assets provided were critical to assisting with wolf damage management in these three states. We believe this support will help address concerns with problem wolves in the short-term as we pursue a long-term solution to return wolves to state management. Farmers and ranchers across the Midwest should not be forced to choose between following the law and protecting their way of life. We look forward to working with you to restore wolf depredation programs that will bring much-needed relief to our constituents. Sincerely, U.S. Representative Collin Peterson, D-Minn.U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn.U.S. Representative Rick Nolan, D-Minn.U.S. Representative Tim Walz, D-Minn.U.S. Representative John Kline, D-Minn.U.S. Representative Tom Emmer, R-Minn.U.S. Representative Reid Ribble, R-Wis.U.S. Representative Glenn Grothman, R-Wis.U.S. Representative Sean Duffy, R-Wis.U.S. Representative Ron Kind, D-Wis.U.S. Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.U.S. Representative Dan Benishek, R-Mich.
03.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson this week introduced legislation (H.R. 1267) to make it easier for farmers, custom harvesters and agriculture producers to safely and efficiently transport fuel. “During the busiest times of the year, producers have to make multiple trips to the fuel station, taking away from time better spent in the field. This legislation will broaden the fuel allowance and ease some of these impractical regulations,” Peterson said. “H.R. 1267 will allow farmers to save both time and money during harvest.” Current regulations require certain class A commercial drivers licensed drivers to obtain a hazmat endorsement while operating a service vehicle with a fuel tank of 1,000 gallons or less of diesel fuel. Without this endorsement they are prohibited from transporting more than 118 gallons of fuel at a time. H.R. 1267 would exempt certain class A drivers from this requirement. The legislation is co-sponsored by Rep. Randy Neugebauer, R-Texas and companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Pat Roberts, R-Kansas, and Sen. Heidi Heitkamp, D-N.D.
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today introduced bipartisan legislation to strengthen the Pilot’s Bill of Rights. H.R. 1062, the Pilot’s Bill of Rights II, would ensure a prospering general aviation industry and build on protections for pilots and aircraft operators. “The Pilot’s Bill of Rights II takes important steps to strengthen the rights of general aviation pilots and address burdensome government regulations,” Peterson said. “The bill will promote safety while reducing barriers to pilot certification and protecting volunteer pilots who support the public good.” The legislation would improve upon the current Pilot’s Bill of Rights by reforming the FAA’s medical certification system; continuing the FAA’s NOTAM system to transmit important safety information; and making it easier for pilots to provide no-cost transportation for patients receiving medical treatment, deliver humanitarian aid and assist in disaster relief. “I applaud Representative Peterson for his leadership in introducing the Pilot’s Bill of Rights II,” General Aviation Manufacturers Association President and CEO Pete Bunce said. “This legislation includes much-needed, common-sense reforms for the general aviation community.” Peterson is a licensed pilot and serves as co-chair of the Congressional Pilot Caucus.
02.27.2015	Washington D.C. – House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Vice-Chairman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) and Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) today introduced the bipartisan EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act to bring fairness, transparency, and independence to the EPA’s expert panel. Similar legislation passed the House in the 113th Congress with bipartisan support. Companion legislation was also introduced today in the Senate by Sens. John Boozman (R-Ark.) and Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.). Vice-Chairman Lucas: “The Science Advisory Board (SAB) informs the EPA on regulations that impact the lives of millions of Americans. Some members on this board have received grant money from the EPA, and several of the members have openly expressed policy preferences in the same areas they are asked to independently study. The heavy costs of EPA’s regulations warrant some degree of public oversight to ensure SAB’s findings are free from bias or conflicts of interest and not simply provided by a set of handpicked advisors. The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act addresses these issues by ensuring the science guiding EPA’s regulatory policy is open to review by the public and requiring members who serve on this board to disclose their professional backgrounds.” Rep. Peterson: “The Science Advisory Board’s work is important to making sure the EPA considers all scientific information when writing regulations that will impact American farmers, families and small businesses. This legislation builds on the work done in the 2014 Farm Bill and is necessary to ensure the EPA takes into account the best information possible, with input from the public and independent stakeholders. A balanced and independent Science Advisory Board will help alleviate some of the unintended consequences surrounding EPA regulations.” The SAB was created to provide independent expert advice to the EPA and Congress on scientific and technical information that may be used to justify federal regulations. Over the past decades, shortcomings with the current process have arisen, including limited public participation, EPA interference with expert advice, and potential conflicts of interest. As a result, the law should be updated to restore scientific integrity to the process and independence to the Board. The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act addresses these shortcomings guaranteeing a well-balanced expert panel, increasing transparency, and encouraging public participation to empower the SAB to provide meaningful and unbiased scientific advice.
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson is inviting Seventh District high school students to submit artwork for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students and the winning pieces are featured for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, which connects the House Office Buildings to the U.S. Capitol. “I encourage students from across the district to enter this competition,” Peterson said. “The winning artwork is seen by thousands of visitors to the U.S. Capitol and is a great way for young artists to show their talent.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 as an opportunity for Members of Congress to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of their young constituents. Since then, more than 650,000 high-school students have participated in the nation-wide contest. Submitted artwork may be up to 28 inches x 28 inches x 4 inches (including the frame) and may be up to 3 inches in depth. Accepted mediums include: · Paintings – including oil, acrylics and watercolor · Drawings – including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink and markers · Collage (two-dimensional) · Prints – including lithographs, silkscreen and block prints · Mixed Media · Computer Generated Art · Photography All entries must be original in concept, design and execution. Artwork that is a reproduction of another artist’s work, including photographs, does not qualify for this competition. HOW TO APPLY: To best ensure accessibility for all students, Peterson’s office will be accepting all Congressional Art Competition submissions online. Selection of the winning piece, made in early May, will be determined based upon the photograph submitted with the application. To apply for the Congressional Art Competition, please submit a photograph of the artwork with the following information to congressional.art@mail.house.gov: · Student Name · Address · Phone Number · Artwork Title · Medium The deadline for all submissions is Friday, April 24, 2015.
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers to introduce legislation (H.R. 884) that would return management of the Western Great Lakes Gray Wolf population to state control. A December 2014 U.S. District Court decision reinstated gray wolves under the protections of the Endangered Species Act in Minnesota. Because of this designation, the state is no longer able to manage gray wolves, leaving farmers and ranchers without a legal way to protect their livestock from wolves. “This legislation returns gray wolf management to the state of Minnesota where it belongs. Farmers should not have to choose between protecting their livelihood and complying with federal law. This bill will provide a legal avenue to balance safety, economic and gray wolf population management issues,” Peterson said. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service has found that since the delisting in 2011 through the winter of 2013-2014, numbers of wolves in Minnesota remained above established recovery goals. The agency has determined that Minnesota, Michigan and Wisconsin have managed wolves according to their federally approved management plan and will provide for the long-term conservation of a viable wolf population in the region.
02.12.2015	--As Prepared for Delivery-- “Thank you Chairman Conaway. Good morning everyone and welcome Chairman Massad to the Agriculture Committee. This is the Chairman’s first appearance before the Committee but I’ve had the opportunity to meet with him and have been impressed by his commitment to implementing the new regulations called for under Dodd-Frank and being inclusive of all points of view throughout the process. “The rulemaking process has maybe taken longer than some would like but, given the limited resources they’ve had to get these new rules in place, I think the CFTC has done a good job. I look forward to an update on the Commission’s continued rulemaking, I believe about 80 percent of the rules have been completed. I’ll also be interested in hearing from the Chairman on some of the market issues that have recently made headlines. “As has been mentioned before, one of the Agriculture Committee’s top priorities for this year is to again pass legislation to reauthorize the CFTC. We passed a good, bipartisan bill last Congress that would protect farmers and ranchers who use the futures market to hedge against risk. I hope that we can build on that legislation and actually get something signed into law this year. “With that, I thank the Chair and look forward to Chairman Massad’s testimony.”
02.12.2015	--As Prepared for Delivery-- “Thank you Chairman Conaway. Good morning everyone. “The Budget Views and Estimates letter lays out the Agriculture Committee’s commitment to reducing the deficit and ensuring that programs under our jurisdiction operate efficiently and responsibly. “As the letter states, CBO has estimated that the 2014 Farm Bill would save $16 billion over 10 years; $23 billion when you count sequestration. We were the one Committee that actually stepped up to the plate and reduced the budget deficit. Frankly, I would argue that we have done our part when it comes to deficit reduction. “Despite this savings and the efforts of the Agriculture Committees, agriculture programs continue to come under attack. The Administration recently proposed cuts to the crop insurance program and I anticipate, given what we have seen in the past, that the Republican budget will also propose similar cuts. It’s important to remember that the purpose of farm bill programs is to provide a safety net during tough economic times, whether for farmers facing falling commodity prices or consumers struggling to put food on the table. “Additionally, the Committee will again take on the task of reauthorizing the CFTC. We produced a bipartisan bill last Congress and I am hopeful that we can again find some middle ground to address some of the implementation issues we’ve had with Dodd-Frank without repealing these important financial reforms. “Again, I thank the Chair and look forward to working together this year. I yield back.”
02.11.2015	“Good morning. Thank you Chairman Conaway for holding today’s hearing and thank you Secretary Vilsack for joining us today. Welcome back to the Committee. “Today we are looking at the rural economy which, over the past few years, has done very well. I think that’s partly why it was so difficult to get a new farm bill passed. It’s good we were able to get it done though because the farm bill provides a safety net to farmers during difficult times. With declining commodity prices and weather-related challenges across much of the country, its important these new programs are in place. “Even with the budget savings the new farm bill provided, I remain concerned about attempts to reopen the bill, whether by making changes to crop insurance, SNAP or any other farm bill program. This is a very bad idea and could put everything we worked for in jeopardy. I hope that this Committee will remain united in opposition to additional cuts to farm bill programs. Quite frankly, the Agriculture Committee has done our work. “With regard to USDA’s implementation of the farm bill, I’ve generally been pleased. We didn’t make this easy, some of the programs are more complicated than I would’ve liked, but it seems like things are on track. I look forward to the Secretary providing an update on the department’s progress. “Again, I thank the Chair for holding today’s hearing, I look forward to hearing from the Secretary and I yield back.”
01.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today joined more than 100 members of the U.S. House to introduce the bipartisan Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act (H.R. 594). The legislation would prohibit the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers from redefining “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act. The bill would also prohibit the implementation of the interpretive rule for agriculture. “The EPA, unfortunately, does not seem to understand how their proposed regulations would actually impact farmers and ranchers. While the intent of the interpretive rule was to provide some clarity, it only creates more confusion and red tape. This legislation will keep this rule from going into effect and allow farmers and ranchers to do their jobs without unnecessary regulation,” Peterson said. Last Congress, Peterson was an original co-sponsor of similar legislation (H.R. 5078) which was passed by the House but never considered in the Senate.
01.22.2015	House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson on Wednesday announced the 19 Democrats appointed to serve on the House Agriculture Committee for the 114th Congress. "This is a great group of both new and returning members who care about the wide variety of issues overseen by the Agriculture Committee. I look forward to working with them, Chairman Conaway and members on the other side of the aisle this Congress," Peterson said. Democratic Members: Collin Peterson, Minnesota; David Scott, Georgia; Jim Costa, California; Tim Walz, Minnesota; Marcia Fudge, Ohio; Jim McGovern, Massachusetts; Suzan DelBene, Washington; Filemon Vela, Texas; Michelle Lujan Grisham, New Mexico; Ann Kuster, New Hampshire; Rick Nolan, Minnesota; Cheri Bustos, Illinois; Sean Patrick Maloney, New York; Ann Kirkpatrick, Arizona; Pete Aguilar, California; Stacey Plaskett, Virgin Islands; Alma Adams, North Carolina; Gwen Graham, Florida; Brad Ashford, Nebraska.
01.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today in support of H.R. 185, the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2015. The House passed the bipartisan legislation with a 250-175 vote. Peterson is a lead sponsor of H.R. 185 and his remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. Floor Statement by Congressman Collin C. PetersonH.R. 185, Regulatory Accountability Act of 2015 January 13, 2015 --As Prepared for Delivery-- “I thank the gentleman. “M__ Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 185, the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2015. This is common sense legislation and I urge my colleagues to vote in support. “Our farmers, ranchers and businesses are all feeling the burden of increased regulations and we need to act to ensure they are not regulated out of business. “We all understand how difficult it is to pass legislation but it is often even harder to get a regulation written correctly. Rather than following the intent of the law, we’ve seen interest groups using the regulatory process to interpret the law in their best interests. That should not be the case. “H.R. 185 will create a more streamlined, transparent and accountable regulatory process and give the American people a stronger voice in agency decision-making. “Specifically, the bill: Requires agencies to choose the lowest cost rulemaking alternative; Streamlines administrative hearings to provide for more stakeholder input; and Provides for more judicial review of new agency regulations. “Similar legislation received bipartisan support in the House in previous Congresses and I urge my colleagues to again support these common sense reforms. “Thank you, M__ Speaker; I yield back.”
01.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today urged the U.S. Department of the Interior to appeal a recent U.S. District Court decision that reinstates gray wolf protections under the Endangered Species Act in Minnesota. In a letter to Interior Secretary Jewell, Peterson said appealing the court decision would return management of Minnesota’s gray wolf population back to the state and help farmers and ranchers facing a difficult decision between protecting their livestock and complying with another federal judicial decision. Full text of the letter is below: January 15, 2014The Honorable Sally JewellSecretaryU.S. Department of the Interior1849 C Street, NWWashington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Jewell: I am writing to express my concerns regarding the recent U.S. District Court decision to reinstate gray wolves under the protections of the Endangered Species Act in Minnesota. I urge the Department of the Interior to appeal this decision so state officials can return to successfully managing the gray wolf population in Minnesota. Farmers and ranchers in my district now face an immediate legal predicament between protecting their livestock from predatory gray wolves and complying with yet another overreaching federal judicial decision. Until the court decision is reversed, Minnesotans will need immediate relief including access to depredation services to protect against predatory wolves threatening their families, pets or livestock. I have long been a proponent of state-controlled wolf population management, which provides a legal avenue to balance safety, economic, and species management issues. Minnesota developed a successful plan to manage a thriving gray wolf population which is why the Department of the Interior delisted western Great Lakes region gray wolves from federal protection in 2011. The Court ruling ignores the Congressional intent of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 which is to protect and recover imperiled species, but also to remove federal protections once populations recover and return to healthy numbers, like the gray wolf in the western Great Lakes region. Appealing the U.S. District Court decision is an issue that requires immediate attention. I look forward to working with you to restore the management of the gray wolf species to the state and provide immediate relief to Minnesotans burdened by this court decision. Sincerely, Collin C. PetersonMember of Congress
01.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Collin C. Peterson joined USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack today to announce that the Red River Valley of the North will receive $12 million from USDA’s Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP) to address water storage and retention in the Valley. Peterson was instrumental in securing this funding, playing a key role in the creation of the RCPP which was included in the 2014 Farm Bill. “This is great news for the Valley,” Peterson said. “This funding will enable us to get to work and make these water retention projects a reality, putting us one step closer to actually addressing water issues in the Red River Valley.” “Today’s announcement will help us work with local partners in the Red River Basin to address the unique conservation challenges this area faces,” Vilsack said. “These investments, along with other USDA resources dedicated in 2014, will help reduce flooding and mitigate the damage repeated flooding creates, which ultimately helps boost the region’s economy. We’re glad to be partnering with Congressman Peterson and local conservation leaders on these important projects.” The funding will help complete projects outlined by the Red River Retention Authority and submitted to USDA. Potential projects identified by the Red River Retention Authority include work on the Maple River Dam and the Redpath Project in the Bois de Sioux Watershed District. “RCPP builds on the success we’ve had with existing conservation programs to support water retention and address flooding in the region. These efforts will also lead to improved water quality and increased wildlife habitat,” Peterson said. The $12 million in RCPP funds will be used to carry out PL-566 Small Watershed Program projects. Today’s announcement follows a previous USDA commitment in the Valley of $50 million in conservation program funding through the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP), Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP) and the Agricultural Conservation Easements Program (ACEP), to address water issues. In the coming weeks, the Red River Retention Authority will meet with USDA officials to determine what projects included in their RCPP application will be addressed with this funding.
01.07.2015	(WASHINGTON, DC) – At the start of this Congress, Congressman Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) introduced H.R. 185, the Regulatory Accountability Act (RAA). This legislation requires federal bureaucrats to adopt the least costly method to effectively implement the law. Last Congress, the House of Representatives passed the RAA as part of a jobs and economic growth package. Peterson and Goodlatte issued the following statements on the RAA: Congressman Peterson: “This bill will streamline and bring transparency to the regulatory process, ensuring that our farmers, ranchers and small businesses are not regulated out of business. Increasing transparency and accountability will give those who will actually feel the impact of proposed regulations, rather than Washington bureaucrats, a larger voice in the process.” Chairman Goodlatte: “Washington’s endless regulatory roadblocks continually drain Americans’ hard-earned wages and stand in the way of opportunity and growth. Today, Americans face a burden of over $3 trillion from federal taxation and regulation. In fact, our federal regulatory burden is larger than the 2013 Gross Domestic Product of all but the top ten countries in the world and most importantly, that burden adds up to $15,000 per American household, nearly thirty percent of average household income in 2013. “The Regulatory Accountability Act addresses the problem of escalating, excessive federal regulatory costs in a clear, commonsense way that we can all support. This legislation directs the Executive Branch to fulfill its statutory goals set by Congress and requires simply that they reach those goals in the least costly way with better public input to find the most efficient regulatory solutions.”
11.05.2014	On November 11, I join Americans across the country to honor the dedication and sacrifice of our veterans and their families. Our veterans are continuing to return from service with pressing needs and I am committed to making sure they have timely access to the benefits they have earned. Recent failings by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) have exposed the challenges veterans can face when seeking care. While Congress has taken steps to address these issues, more can and should be done. I will continue to fight for meaningful and thoughtful reforms for all our veterans. In recent years the number of women veterans has grown. Today, women constitute approximately 20 percent of new recruits and almost 280,000 women have served in the military since 9/11. I recently visited the Fargo VA hospital for a VA Women Veterans Appreciation Day event where I had the opportunity to hear first-hand from these brave women about the unique challenges they face when returning to civilian life. It is important that as this demographic grows Congress provide the Veterans Administration with the necessary tools to address care for women veterans. Just as our troops vow to leave no one behind on the battlefield, it is our responsibility to leave no veteran behind when they come home. I will continue my work in Congress to serve our veterans as they have served us, making sure they have the support they need whether it is seeking health care, employment or housing assistance. Our nation’s veterans have done everything asked of them with courage and excellence. I honor their service and thank all who serve.
10.29.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Minnesota Seventh District Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced the National 4-H Council has awarded $215,000 to University of Minnesota Extension in support of the 4-H National Mentoring Program. The grant is part of the Department of Justice Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention’s national effort to strengthen, expand and implement youth mentoring activities to improve the lives of millions of young Americans. “Growing up in rural Minnesota, I had the opportunity to take part in local 4-H programs,” Peterson said. “I’ve since been an active supporter of 4-H and have seen the benefits their programs can provide to our young men and women. This grant will allow 4-H to continue their good work in Minnesota.” This grant will provide funding to facilitate 4-H mentoring programs in Minnesota, including Mahnomen County, to keep kids safe and prevent youth delinquency. These mentoring programs were developed in partnership with the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Children, Youth and Families at Risk Program which sparks innovation in community-based educational programs for children, youth, parents and families. As of 2013, the 4-H National Mentoring Program has served more than 31,000 youth. 4-H is the nation’s largest youth development and empowerment organization, with programs benefitting six million young people through the 109 land-grant universities and Cooperative Extension in more than 3,000 local offices serving every county and parish in the United States.
10.22.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken along with Representative Collin Peterson today announced that the Red River Valley Cooperative Power Association will receive a loan of $8 million through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Utilities Service. The loan will help support efforts to build or improve 84 miles of electric distribution lines and fund smart grid projects. “Reliable electrical service is something every Minnesotan should be able to access,” Klobuchar said. “This support will help Red River Valley Power expand its operations and help keep the lights on in countless farms, households, and small businesses.” “Minnesota stands to benefit from a more efficient electricity delivery system that will lower consumers’ energy bills,” Franken said. “As Chairman of the Senate Energy Subcommittee, I’ve pressed to modernize the way electricity is delivered to our homes and businesses, including investments in smart grid technologies. This support for Red River Power will go a long way towards improving their system and reliability across Northwestern Minnesota.” “Upgrading the power grid and diversifying energy portfolios will not only help rural electric utilities use energy more effectively, it will also bring jobs and increased economic opportunities to Minnesota’s rural communities,” Peterson said. Klobuchar has long supported efforts to help increase access to electricity in rural communities. She has introduced a provision with Senator John Hoeven (R-ND) that would help keep energy affordable for rural communities in Minnesota by allowing rural electric providers to continue to use large, energy-efficient water heaters in ‘demand response’ programs. Franken, who is the Chairman of the Senate Energy Subcommittee, has chaired a number of hearings to promote energy efficiency throughout the economy. He is sponsor and cosponsor of a number of energy efficiency bills, including Senator Hoeven's legislation to allow the continued use of large water heaters that are important to utilities and their consumers in Minnesota. Peterson, who serves as Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Committee, has been a leader on working to improve the quality of life in rural communities and supportive of the work of rural electric cooperatives to expand and improve their services.
10.17.2014	GRANITE FALLS, Minn., Oct. 17 – USDA Rural Development State Director Colleen Landkamer joined U.S. Congressman Colling Peterson today in Granite Falls, Minn. to celebrate construction of a new nursing home at Granite Falls Manor. The City received $11.3 million in loans from USDA Rural Development to replace existing infrastructure and build a new facility. “With an increasingly aging population nationwide, it is important that rural communities have the resources to provide safe, sustainable, and affordable facilities to accommodate this influx,” said Colleen Landkamer, USDA Rural Development State Director. “Granite Falls Manor’s commitment to this population is important to recognize and will help this community further its sustainability well into the future.” Built in the 1960’s, the current nursing home facility was rapidly deteriorating and provided an outdated model of service for residents that resembled more of a hospital setting than a home. Granite Falls Manor currently offers only five private rooms with the balance of the facility’s 57 beds being semi-private resident rooms on two different levels and serviced by three nursing stations. The new facility will have 40 new private rooms and eight semi-private rooms all housed on one level. When the project is finished, Granite Falls Manor will have a facility that is efficient and state-of-the-art in design enabling a more private, home-like atmosphere for residents. “This will assure our area community that Granite Falls Hospital and Manor will have the ability to serve the needs of our aging residents in need of skilled care in a respectful, safe and homelike atmosphere” said George Gerlach, Administrator” USDA funding comes in the form of an $11.3 million direct loan through the Community Facility Program. Since 2009, USDA Rural Development has invested over $353 million to build or improve essential community facilities throughout rural Minnesota. Rural Development also invests in housing, water and wastewater treatment, businesses, renewable energy and high-speed Internet. To learn more about Rural Development programs, visit www.rurdev.usda.gov/mn, or contact the local area office in Willmar, Minn., at (320) 235-3540, ext. 4.
10.10.2014	The Minnesota Farm Bureau Federation (MFBF) is proud to award Congressman Collin Peterson the 2014 “Friend of Farm Bureau” award. “Congressman Peterson has continued to demonstrate his commitment and support to agriculture. A five-year farm bill was passed because of his leadership as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Agriculture. We need him in office for two more years to ensure that USDA implements the farm bill correctly. We also need him there as a leader opposing EPA’s proposed overreach on the definition of ‘Waters of the United States’,” said MFBF President Kevin Paap. “Congressman Peterson is a champion for Minnesota agriculture, and he deserves our thanks for sharing Farm Bureau’s dedication to enhancing the lives of farm families in the 7th Congressional District and across the state.” The “Friend of Farm Bureau” award is given to individuals who have supported Farm Bureau issues, as demonstrated by their voting records. The voting records were based on issues selected by the American Farm Bureau Federation Board of Directors. Members of the Minnesota delegation who received the 2014 “Friend of Farm Bureau” award are Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Tim Walz, John Kline, Erik Paulsen and Collin Peterson. Minnesota Farm Bureau representing Farmers • Families • Food is comprised of 78 local Farm Bureaus across Minnesota. Members make their views known to political leaders, state government officials, special interest groups and the general public. Programs for young farmers and ranchers develop leadership skills and improve farm management. Promotion and Education Committee members work with programs such as Ag in the Classroom and safety education for children.
10.08.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken along with Representative Collin Peterson announced $120,327 in Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grant funding to hire a police officer in the Lower Sioux Indian Community. The COPS program has put over 100,000 cops on the beat since 1994. Klobuchar and Franken have introduced the COPS Improvement Act of 2014 to reauthorize funding for the COPS program to strengthen support for local enforcement and put more cops on the street to fight crime. “As a former prosecutor, I know how important it is to have cops on the beat to keep communities safe,” Klobuchar said. “This support will help law enforcement to prevent and reduce crime in the Lower Sioux Indian Community.” “All across Minnesota, law enforcement officers are dedicated to keeping our communities safe,” Franken said. “This new COPS grant will give officers in the Lower Sioux Indian Community more support to serve and protect their community.” “Ensuring local law enforcement has the tools they need should always be a top priority,” Peterson said. “This grant will give the Lower Sioux Indian Community the resources to hire more personnel and keep local citizens safe.” The COPS program awards grants to state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies throughout the United States so they can hire and train law enforcement officers to participate in community policing and develop and test new and innovative policing strategies. Klobuchar and Franken introduced the COPS Improvement Act of 2014 in April. The legislation would provide vital support to local law enforcement by authorizing the COPS program through 2019, and establishing the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services as a distinct office within the Department of Justice. Specifically, the COPS Improvement Act of 2014 would fund grants to: · Meet emerging law enforcement needs · Hire veterans to serve as career law enforcement officers for deployment in community-oriented policing · Hire school resource officers and establish local partnerships to combat crime, gangs, drug activities, and other problems in elementary and secondary schools · Establish and implement innovative programs to reduce and prevent illegal drug manufacturing, distribution, and use · Pay for additional community prosecuting programs to handle cases from specific geographic areas and to address counter-terrorism problems and violent crime in local communities · Develop new technologies to assist state and local law enforcement agencies in crime prevention and training The COPS Improvement Act of 2014 is supported by the Fraternal Order of Police, the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, the National Sheriff’s Association, the National Association of Police Organizations, the International Association of Chiefs of Police, and the Sergeants Benevolent Association. Additional cosponsors include Senators Charles Schumer (D-NY), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Bob Casey (D-PA), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Ed Markey (D-MA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), and Chris Coons (D-DE).
10.07.2014	Washington, D.C., October 7, 2014 – The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) has awarded Minnesota Seventh District Congressman Collin C. Peterson the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. The award is based on Peterson’s votes in the 113th Congress on issues that are critical to manufacturing in the United States. “Manufacturers in Minnesota and throughout the United States are making a comeback, creating jobs, making more products and making them better than ever before,” said NAM Senior Vice President of Policy and Government Relations Aric Newhouse. “However, manufacturers are often disproportionately impacted by decisions made by policymakers in Washington. The NAM is proud to stand with lawmakers like Rep. Peterson who understand what is at stake and seek to implement policies that will foster innovation, growth and competitiveness.” Key Votes included in the Voting Record are selected by small, medium and large manufacturing executives who serve on the NAM’s Key Vote Advisory Committee. Additional information on the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence can be found here.
10.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and U.S. Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, John Kline, Michele Bachmann, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, Erik Paulsen, and Rick Nolan announced that Small Business Administration (SBA) Economic Injury Disaster Loans are now available to small businesses and other organizations affected by flooding in 49 counties. Last week, the USDA Farm Service Agency designated these counties as a natural disaster areas, making farmers and ranchers eligible for emergency loans to help recover and rebuild. The Economic Injury Disaster Loans are available to small businesses and other organizations that suffered financial losses as a result of the heavy precipitation and flooding. Under the Small Business Administration’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan program, qualifying small businesses and private non-profit organizations can receive loans of up to $2 million. Eligibility is determined based on the size of the applicant, the type of activity, and its financial resources. The following counties are eligible for Economic Injury Disaster Loans: Aitkin, Anoka, Beltrami, Benton, Blue Earth, Carlton, Carver, Cass, Chisago, Clearwater, Crow Wing, Dakota, Douglas, Grant, Hennepin, Isanti, Itasca, Kanabec, Koochiching, Lake of the Woods, Le Sueur, Marshall, McLeod, Meeker, Mille Lacs, Morrison, Nicollet, Otter Tail, Pennington, Pine, Polk, Pope, Ramsey, Red Lake, Rice, Roseau, Saint Louis, Scott, Sherburne, Sibley, Stearns, Stevens, Todd, Traverse, Wadena, Waseca, Washington, Wilkin and Wright.
10.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC) – Minnesota Seventh District Congressman Collin C. Peterson today continued his call for all sides to come together to resolve rail congestion and service issues and restore safe, reliable rail service. Peterson submitted a statement to a Minnesota Senate and House joint meeting examining rail congestion and safety in the state. Peterson’s full statement, as submitted for the record, is below: STATEMENTCONGRESSMAN COLLIN C. PETERSONMinnesota Senate & House Joint MeetingRail Congestion and Safety in MinnesotaSeptember 30, 2014 Safe, reliable rail service is critical in rural areas in Minnesota like the 7th District. Three of the four Class I railroads in Minnesota cross the 7th District, and local communities and businesses rely on this resource to transport freight across the country and the world. It goes without saying that we need rail service to be as safe as possible. The crash in Casselton last December was minutes away from being on a Main Street in Minnesota. It was a harsh reminder that we need to do more to make rail safety a priority. That's why I cosponsored H.R. 3040, the Safe Freight Act, which would require a two-man crew on all freight movement. I continue to closely monitor the Surface Transportation Board's ongoing investigation of the Casselton crash. Looking ahead, I hope we can address these safety issues more broadly in the next surface transportation reauthorization bill. Rail service we can depend on is crucial, even more so now that we're beginning harvest season. USDA is forecasting an above average harvest this year for many crops, yet a number of elevators are reporting that they have no, or very limited, storage space for new crop deliveries. Crops need to get to market, and congestion hurts the local economy. Farmers, elevator operators, and ethanol plants are just a few examples of folks I’ve heard from in my district who tell me how powerless they feel in this situation. On September 4, I testified at the Surface Transportation Board hearing in Fargo to discuss the impact rail service delays continue to have on our local businesses and agriculture industry in the 7th District. I also sent a letter with Congressman Walz and Congressman Nolan in April outlining our specific concerns about how Minnesota is being impacted. In addition to restoring rail service, I support a comprehensive effort to diversify our transportation infrastructure network. We need to make rail service more efficient and free up additional capacity for the movement of agriculture and energy commodities necessary to keep our economy strong. In my meetings with the rail companies to discuss these issues, they have laid out the constraints facing the industry. Some rail companies have already set aside long-term funding to make infrastructure investments. While these efforts are encouraging, I believe there is still more that needs to be done. We need all sides to come together and figure out a way to resolve these issues and restore a safe, reliable rail service in Minnesota.
10.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, John Kline, Michele Bachmann, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, Erik Paulsen, and Rick Nolan requested a meeting with Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald to discuss recent reports of falsified records at the Minneapolis VA Health Care System. The VA Inspector General’s office is currently investigating allegations of falsified records and manipulation of scheduling data that may have put veterans’ lives at risk. In a letter, the delegation requested a meeting with Secretary McDonald to discuss the findings of that investigation once it’s completed to help ensure steps are taken to correct problems and punish any wrongdoing. “We are deeply troubled by serious allegations of falsified records and manipulation of scheduling data at the Minneapolis Veterans Affairs (VA) Health Care System,” the delegation wrote. “These allegations are currently under investigation by the VA Inspector General and the Department of Justice. We request that you meet with us at the conclusion of this important investigation to discuss its findings and the steps you are taking to ensure any wrongdoing is appropriately punished and that Minnesota veterans are receiving the highest quality care without undue delays.” The full text of the delegation’s letter is below: Dear Secretary McDonald: We are deeply troubled by serious allegations of falsified records and manipulation of scheduling data at the Minneapolis Veterans Affairs (VA) Health Care System. According to media reports, these inappropriate practices have caused delays in care that put lives at risk and in at least one case may have contributed to the death of a young Marine veteran. In addition, VA employees who raised concerns may have been retaliated against by their superiors. These allegations are currently under investigation by the VA Inspector General and the Department of Justice. We have urged them to proceed as quickly and thoroughly as possible so that any mismanagement or mistreatment of veterans is identified and eliminated and anyone responsible can be held to account. We request that you meet with us at the conclusion of this important investigation to discuss its findings and the steps you are taking to ensure any wrongdoing is appropriately punished and that Minnesota veterans are receiving the highest quality care without undue delays. Since your confirmation, we have greatly appreciated your commitment to increasing transparency and accountability within the Department. We believe that the opportunity to discuss our concerns about the VA in Minnesota with you is essential to the process of restoring the trust of our state’s veterans and their families in the VA health care system. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
10.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, and Rick Nolan today announced more than $17 million in grants to support job-driven training programs at 14 community colleges in Minnesota. The grants are provided through the Department of Labor’s (DOL) Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training competitive grant initiative. Funding can be used for developing new curricula and training models, hiring and training instructors, purchasing new equipment, and other activities. “For Minnesota to succeed in the 21st century economy, we need a 21st century education system,” Klobuchar said. “Our schools need to foster partnerships with local businesses and create new job training opportunities that will connect our students to the jobs of tomorrow that business are creating today. That is the best way for our students to succeed and for Minnesota businesses to remain ahead of the curve and competitive in the global marketplace.” “One of my top priorities is to help Minnesotans get the tools they need to find good jobs,” Franken said. “Right now, our nation is facing a ‘skills gap’ that has left more than 3 million jobs unfilled because there aren't enough workers with the skills and training to fill them. That’s why I’ve championed these types of partnerships with legislation in the Senate and why I strongly supported these grants. We need to train students for the skilled jobs that are available and this will bolster that important effort.” “With these grants, schools will be able to provide Minnesota students with the necessary skills and advanced training needed to succeed in today’s job market,” Peterson said. “Support for job-driven training also benefits our communities by ensuring that Minnesota businesses can employ local, highly-skilled employees.” “With these TAACCCT grants, the Obama administration is making a great investment in our state’s community colleges,” said McCollum. “With this support for the education of students in the construction, utilities, and manufacturing fields, we are building the workforce that builds a stronger Minnesota.” “Minnesota is leading the nation when it comes to training people to find highly-skilled jobs right out of our community colleges,” Rep. Ellison said. “The Department of Labor grant will ensure Minnesota’s community colleges continue to equip students with the skills to find good job opportunities in our communities” “The number one thing I hear from Minnesota employers is that they need more highly skilled workers in order to grow and compete in the global market,” Walz said. “We must ensure our students have the tools and training they need to fill these good paying jobs, start and provide for their family, and contribute to their local community. These job training programs at community and technical colleges are critical to this endeavor, and I’m pleased we’re taking steps to expand them here at home.” “I am particularly proud to recognize the leadership role of faculty and students at Pine Technical and Community College in Pine City, Central Lakes College in Brainerd, and Bemidji State University as they use this money to advance their state of the art offerings in rural information technology and manufacturing," Nolan said. “These grants will help create good jobs and improve our quality of life in northern Minnesota.” Minnesota State Community and Technical College in Fergus Falls will receive $2.5 million to provide training and certifications in the construction and utilities industry. South Central College in North Mankato is leading a group of 13 colleges that will receive nearly $15 million – including $5.6 million for South Central College – to focus on training in the advanced manufacturing industry. The 13 schools included in the consortium are: Bemidji State University (360° Center of Excellence in Manufacturing); Century College; Dakota County Technical College; Lake Superior College; Minneapolis Community & Technical College; MN State Community and Technical College; MN West Community and Technical College; Nomandale Community College; Northland Community & Technical College; Ridgewater College; Riverland Community College; South Central College; and Saint Paul College. For more information on the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training Grant Program, click here.
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C., Sept. 17, 2014 – The National Federation of Independent Business, the nation’s leading small business association, today named U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson (MN-7) a Guardian of Small Business for his outstanding voting record on behalf of America’s small-business owners in the 113th Congress. NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner praised Rep. Peterson for “standing up for small business.” In presenting the group’s coveted Guardian of Small Business Award, Danner said, “Small-business owners are very politically active – paying close attention to how their lawmakers vote on key business issues and stand by those who stand for them.” “The record shows that Rep. Peterson is a true champion of small business, supporting the votes that matter in the 113th Congress,” said Danner. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business.” NFIB’s “How Congress Voted,” which serves as a report card for members of Congress, was also unveiled this week. The report presents key small-business votes and voting percentages for each lawmaker. Those voting favorably on key small-business issues at least 70 percent of the time during the 113th Congress are eligible for the Guardian award. In all, NFIB will present Guardian awards to 232 Representatives who stood up for small business.
09.15.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced today that the Ortonville Municipal-Martinson Field Airport has been awarded a $409,500 Department of Transportation grant to construct a fuel facility and rehabilitate the airport access road, parking lot and runway. “It’s important that our local airports remain in good working condition and this grant will provide Martinson Field with the resources needed to make important infrastructure improvements. A quality airport will also benefit the local economy,” Peterson said. With the grant, the airport will be able to replace and relocate the existing fuel facility. The grant will also fund the rehabilitation of the airport access road and parking lots that are in need of repair and make structural improvements to the airport runway.
09.12.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced today that the Myers Field in Canby has been awarded a $137,000 Department of Transportation grant to rehabilitate the airport’s parking lot and runway. “It’s important that our local airports be in good operating condition. This grant will allow Myers Field to make necessary infrastructure improvements to continue to provide for the region,” Peterson said. The grant will fund improvements to maintain the structural integrity of the airport’s runway and parking lot
09.12.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced today that the Bemidji Regional Airport has been awarded a $550,287 Department of Transportation grant to improve airport infrastructure. “A well-functioning airport is important to the local economy. With this grant the Bemidji Airport can make important infrastructure improvements to meet the region’s transportation needs,” Peterson said. The grant will fund an update to the Airport Master Plan narrative report and Airport Layout Plan to address key issues, objectives and goals pertinent to the airport's future development. The grant will also fund an environmental assessment to evaluate environmental impacts related to the proposed development of a general aviation area to include a public use apron and associated taxiways. This grant will be issued as a multi-year grant with $502,333 in fiscal year 2014 funding. The remaining $47,954 of entitlements will be added by amendment subject to future appropriations through fiscal year 2015.
09.12.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced today that the Roseau Municipal Airport has been awarded a $651,735 Department of Transportation grant to construct a new hangar and parking lot, and expand an access road. “This grant will allow the Roseau Airport to make important infrastructure improvements,” Peterson said. “This not only helps the airport meet the region’s transportation needs but also benefits the local economy.” The grant will fund the construction of a public parking lot; a 4,200 square foot hangar building will assist the airport to be as self-sustaining as possible by generating revenue; and an expansion to connect to the new parking lot.
09.12.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced today that the Moorhead Municipal Airport has been awarded a $411,259 Department of Transportation grant to construct a taxiway and improve airport drainage. “Making infrastructure improvements to the Moorhead Airport will allow it to meet the region’s transportation needs,” Peterson said. “These improvements will also benefit the local economy.” The grant will fund the construction of a storm water detention pond to adequately handle storm water runoff and the construction of a 600 foot Taxilane B-002 to provide access to aircraft hangars.
09.09.2014	"I thank the gentleman. "M__ Speaker, I rise today to support H.R. 5078, the Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act. "As others have said, H.R. 5078 would prohibit the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers from redefining “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act. "The bill would also prohibit implementation of the interpretative rule for agriculture which, while it was probably meant to provide some clarity to farmers and ranchers, only creates more confusion and is bad for agriculture. "This legislation is necessary because, in my view, the EPA does not seem to understand the real world effects these regulations will have on farmers across the country. "We still don’t have any clear definition of a wetland, an issue dating back to the 80s and 90s. Maps used by USDA were unclear and often mislabeled wetlands. This rule would only add more uncertainty. "In my state, USDA’s Natural Resources Conservation Service has done a great job working with farmers to encourage voluntary conservation efforts. This rule would severely disrupt these positive efforts. "I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and I yield back."
09.04.2014	TESTIMONYRep. Collin C. PetersonSurface Transportation Board Field Hearing (Fargo, ND)"United States Rail Service Issues"September 4, 2014 Thank you to the Surface Transportation Board for holding this field hearing in Fargo, and thank you to Senators Heitkamp and Hoeven, Congressman Cramer, and Governor Dalrymple for being here and bringing attention to this important issue. Also, thank you to today’s witnesses, especially Commissioner Frederickson and representatives of Minnesota agriculture. Dependable rail service is crucial, even more so now that we're beginning harvest season. USDA is forecasting an above average harvest this year for many crops, yet a number of elevators are reporting that they have no, or very limited, storage space for new crop deliveries. Crops need to get to market, and congestion hurts the local economy. Earlier this spring, I sent a letter to the Surface Transportation Board with Minnesota Congressmen Walz and Nolan to address our concerns about the impact service delays were having on the agricultural industry. It is my understanding that while there has been some improvement, these delays remain a serious problem. Farmers, elevator operators, and ethanol plants are just a few examples of folks I’ve heard from in my district who tell me how powerless they feel in this situation. I've met numerous times with the rail companies to discuss this issue and get a better understanding of the constraints facing the industry. Some rail companies have already set aside long-term funding to make infrastructure investments to prevent future delays. While these efforts are encouraging, I believe there is still more that needs to be done. We need all sides to come together and figure out a way to resolve the current rail service delays. Hopefully today’s hearing will be a positive discussion on how to resolve this problem. Once again, thank you to the Surface Transportation Board for holding today’s hearing and your efforts to find a solution. I'm glad we could convene in a location close to those who are being impacted by this issue.
09.04.2014	Sponsored by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in partnership with Citizen Corps, this September is National Preparedness Month. Thousands of individuals, businesses, and organizations around the country are pledging to “Be Disaster Aware and Take Action to Prepare.” Join in by taking these four simple steps now to stay safe later if an emergency threatens our community: First, make an emergency communications plan with your family. Discuss how you'll contact each other, where you'll meet, and what you'll do in different situations. For a downloadable plan template, visit www.gearupgetready.org. Second, build an emergency kit for your home, office, and car. Each time you go to the store, pick up an item or two—whether it’s water, nonperishable food, medications, flashlights, batteries, or other necessary items. You can find a list of suggested supplies at www.ready.gov/build-a-kit. Third, know the risks in your community. In this region, we experience a wide variety of hazardous weather, such as severe winter storms, snow and ice, flooding, tornadoes, straight line winds, and extreme hot and cold temperatures. You can find out more about each of these types of hazards at https://www.ready.gov/be-informed. Finally, tell a friend or family member about what you’re doing – by paying it forward we can begin to build communities that are better prepared and more resilient to potentially devastating disasters. To learn more about National Preparedness Month, or to find additional disaster ready tools and resources, visit www.Ready.gov.
08.14.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson announced today that Lyon County is now eligible for disaster assistance to recover from severe weather. The Administration on Wednesday added Lyon County to the list of Minnesota counties eligible for federal disaster assistance as part of its major disaster declaration for the state. “Severe storms with strong winds and heavy rain led to flooding across Lyon County. This disaster assistance will provide relief to help impacted communities as they work to recover,” Peterson said. The disaster declaration for Lyon County will provide for federal assistance of 75 percent of the cost of emergency work and the repair or replacement of infrastructure. The county is also eligible for hazard mitigation funding on a cost-sharing basis to prevent future damage from natural hazards.
08.06.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken along with Representative Collin Peterson today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Hutchinson Municipal- Butler Field Airport $176,500 for infrastructure improvements. “Our 21st-century economy demands a 21st-century transportation network,” Klobuchar said. “By investing in the Hutchinson Airport today, we’re laying the groundwork to address Minnesota’s and the nation’s transportation needs in the future.” “Investing in Minnesota’s airport network is good for the economy and important for safety,” Franken said. “This support for the Hutchinson Airport will help make sure that Minnesota’s overall transportation infrastructure is up-to-date and dependable.” “This investment will allow the Hutchinson Airport to meet local air transportation needs,” Peterson said. “A quality airport is key to maintaining and improving our rural economy.” The $176,500 will fund the design phase to improve runway safety, and to rehabilitate the parking apron, runway and taxiway.
08.06.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken along with Representative Collin Peterson today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Hector Airport $82,350 for infrastructure improvements. “Our 21st-century economy demands a 21st-century transportation network,” Klobuchar said. “By investing in the Hector Airport today, we’re laying the groundwork to address Minnesota’s and the nation’s transportation needs in the future.” “Investing in Minnesota’s airports is good for the economy and important for safety,” Franken said. “This support for the Hector Airport will help make sure that Minnesota’s overall transportation infrastructure is a model for other states.” “Investing in area transportation is key to maintaining and improving local communities,” Peterson said. “A modern, well-functioning airport will continue to draw business and tourism to the region.” The $82,350 will fund an environment assessment for the construction of a fuel facility, the design phase to construct an electrical vault building needed to house airfield electrical equipment, and fund creak sealing the runway to maintain its structural integrity.
08.06.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken along with Representative Collin Peterson today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Mahnomen County Airport $447,422 for infrastructure improvements. “Expanding the airport in Mahnomen means expanding economic opportunity in Mahnomen and the entire region,” Klobuchar said. “This support will help ensure that Minnesota’s airports continue to be among the safest and most reliable in the nation.” “Investing in the Mahnomen County Airport is good for the regional economy and important for safety,” Franken said. “This new funding will help make sure that Minnesota’s transportation network is among the best around.” “These funds will allow the Mahnomen Airport to expand and continue to meet the region’s air transportation needs,” Peterson said. “ A well-functioning airport is an important part of the local economy.” The $447,442 will fund the construction of a new taxiway to provide access to aircraft hangars, the expansion of the existing parking apron to meet Federal Aviation Administration design standards, and the rehabilitation of the existing apron and taxiway to maintain structural integrity of pavement.
08.06.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken along with Representative Collin Peterson today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Paynesville Municipal Airport $63,000 for infrastructure improvements. The funds will help with the replacement of the airport’s beacon which has reached the end of its useful life. “Airport beacons are critical to maintaining safety in our skies and ensuring local airports can operate efficiently and effectively,” Klobuchar said. “This support will help ensure that the Paynesville Airport has a state-of-the-art beacon and that Minnesota’s airports continue to be among the safest and most reliable in the nation.” “Investing in the Paynesville Municipal Airport is good for the regional economy and important for safety,” Franken said. “This new funding will help make sure that Minnesota’s transportation system is among the best in the country.” “As a pilot, I understand the need for a quality airport beacon,” Peterson said. “Replacing the Paynesville Airport’s beacon will allow the airport to safely continue operations”
08.05.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representative Collin Peterson announced today a waiver that will expedite a critical propane infrastructure project. This announcement comes after Klobuchar, Franken, and Peterson sent a letter to the Army Corp of Engineers to urge their immediate consideration and allow the project to move forward without unnecessary delay. “The sharp decline in the propane supply this past winter increased prices for families and businesses and put the safety of Minnesotans at risk,” said Klobuchar. “This new terminal will help alleviate the infrastructure and transportation bottleneck that chocked off supply and left insufficient propane supplies for Minnesotans.” “When the propane crisis hit last winter, I traveled around Minnesota and heard from families and producers about how much it hurt them,” said Franken. “I heard from everyone— from homeowners who couldn’t afford to heat their homes to turkey growers who couldn’t heat their barns. This new project will help bring much-needed propane to Minnesota.” "Last winter's propane shortage meant Minnesotans paid near record prices to heat their homes and left many facing uncertainty about propane access in the future," Peterson said. "The waiver will allow this project to move forward, helping address the barriers that caused the propane shortage by increasing propane supplies in advance of the fall and winter season." The proposed project is being put forward by Dooley Petroleum of Benson. It includes the installation of a railroad unloading track capable of storing one million gallons of propane to resupply their existing 1.5 million gallon terminal facility. Any delays in the project could jeopardize the supply of propane available crop drying and heating season this winter. Last winter, the Midwest experienced a major shortage in propane that caused a drastic spike in price. More than 200,000 households in Minnesota rely on propane as their main source of heat. The full text of the lawmakers’ letter is below: Dear Lieutenant General Bostick: We are writing to request your assistance and immediate consideration of an application for a permit recently submitted by Dooley Petroleum of Benson, Minnesota, an affiliate of Alliance Energy Services, so that a critical propane infrastructure project in our state can move forward without unnecessary delay. The need for this project emerged suddenly as households and businesses in Minnesota saw significant spikes in the price of propane fuels during last winter’s severe cold. An estimated 230,000 farms, homes, and businesses may lose access to propane supply as Kinder Morgan’s Cochin pipeline flow is reversed. With nearly 40 percent of the state’s propane flowing through the Cochin pipeline, our constituents may be left without the fuel necessary to heat their homes and keep their livestock and poultry barns warm if additional supply of propane is not ready to replace the lost fuel. These propane infrastructure changes, combined with increased competition for limited rail cars, have further exacerbated the logistical issues many Minnesota distributors have faced in storing and sourcing the propane needed to heat homes and operate grain dryers. The proposed project includes the installation of a railroad unloading track capable of storing one million gallons of propane to resupply their existing 1.5 million gallon terminal facility. If the proposed project is not constructed and operational by September, there will not be sufficient supplies of propane available to meet crop drying and home heating needs. The St. Paul District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers proposed timeline of up to 120 days for completing the permit process will not allow the project to be operational by this September. We all agree that we must do everything we can to prevent a propane shortage like our state faced last winter. Minnesotans also take very seriously our responsibility to ensure that our natural resources are maintained and protected for future generations to enjoy. That’s why the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, the Minnesota Department of Agriculture, the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil Resources, and Swift County all have protections in place to ensure that any negative impacts by this project are mitigated and procedures are delineated in the project to protect these resources. During your review of the pending permit application, we urge you and your staff to work closely with the relevant stakeholders and state and local government agencies, especially when permits have already been granted to the project. The Corps of Engineers, the project sponsors and the American taxpayer all benefit when we eliminate duplicative or redundant permitting on a project that has already met a standard for protection that is equal to or stronger than the federal level of project. The construction of the new terminal will prove critical in providing timely propane delivery while guaranteeing storage to adequately supply home heating and agricultural needs this fall and winter but only if the project is completed in time. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, ###
08.01.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson, John Kline, Michele Bachmann, Tim Walz, Erik Paulsen, and Rick Nolan announced today that the Administration has extended its Major Disaster Declaration to include 26 additional Minnesota communities impacted by devastating flooding this summer. After successfully urging the President last month to issue a Major Disaster Declaration to assist eight Minnesota communities in their flood repair efforts, the delegation advocated for the addition of other damaged communities. Today’s announcement brings the total number of Minnesota communities that will receive federal assistance up to 34. The delegation also announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Minnesota a $5 million statewide grant to repair roads damaged from recent flooding. “As we’ve toured affected communities, we’ve seen firsthand the damage these storms have caused. From the Canadian border to the Iowa border, heavy rains have washed out roads, bridges and culverts and damaged wastewater systems,” the members said in their letter to the President calling for the disaster declaration. “After disaster strikes Minnesota, we hit the ground running and do not stop until we have the resources in place to ensure that communities can recover. We will continue to push for all available assistance at the federal level until the recovery is complete.” The additional communities the President added to his declaration are: Beltrami, Blue Earth, Brown, Carver, Dodge, Faribault, Koochiching, La Qui Parle, Lake of the Woods, Le Sueur, Marshall, Martin, McLeod, Nicollet, Redwood, Rice, Roseau, Scott, Sibley, Steele, Todd, Wadena, Waseca, and Yellow Medicine Counties and the Red Lake Band of Chippewa and Prairie Island Indian Community Tribes for Public Assistance. The declaration allows for federal assistance of 75 percent of the cost of emergency work and the repair or replacement of infrastructure. The declaration also makes all counties in Minnesota eligible for hazard mitigation funding on a cost-sharing basis to prevent future damage from natural hazards. The President originally declared a major disaster for Chippewa, Freeborn, Jackson, Murray, Nobles, Pipestone, Renville, and Rock Counties.
08.01.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced the U.S. Department of Agriculture is moving forward with selecting projects to participate in USDA’s Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP). The Red River Valley Retention Authority was selected to present a full, formal proposal to USDA. “The Regional Conservation Partnership Program allows us to use existing NRCS programs to support water retention, reduce flooding, improve water quality and increase wildlife habitat,” Peterson said. “Submitting a formal proposal is the next step to finally addressing water issues in the Valley.” Peterson has been a long-time advocate of leveraging farm bill conservation programs to address water retention in the Red River Valley and worked to include the RCPP as part of the 2014 Farm Bill. The RCPP allows USDA to partner with third parties or work directly with producers in watersheds and other critical conservation areas. In addition to RCPP, it was recently announced that the Red River of the North Basin would receive targeted conservation funding of up to $50 million over the next five years to minimize flooding, boost soil health, improve water quality and enhance wildlife habitat in the watershed.
07.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz announced today that the Administration has issued a Major Disaster Declaration for Minnesota communities impacted by devastating flooding in recent weeks. The announcement comes after Minnesota’s congressional delegation urged the President to issue a disaster declaration to assist communities that are working hard to recover from significant flood damage. “Weeks of torrential downpour this summer triggered devastating flooding that inflicted severe damage all across our state,” Klobuchar said. “This disaster declaration will deliver critical funding and support to communities impacted by flooding and help our state rebuild and recover.” “I’ve seen firsthand the devastating impact that recent storms and flooding have had on farmers, businesses, and communities across Minnesota,” Franken said. “I’m pleased that the President has granted our request for a federal disaster declaration so that Minnesotans who have been affected can begin the recovery process.” “Many Minnesota communities have felt the impact of Mother Nature this summer," Peterson said. “This disaster declaration is a necessary first step to helping residents in the affected counties get back on their feet.” “This disaster declaration is welcome news,” said Rep. Walz. “While they won’t replace everything that was lost, the funds will help our local communities recover. I will continue working to ensure our local communities are able to get back on their feet.” The designation declares a major disaster for Chippewa, Freeborn, Jackson, Murray, Nobles, Pipestone, Renville, and Rock Counties, paving the way for federal assistance of 75 percent of the cost of emergency work and the repair or replacement of infrastructure. The declaration also makes all counties in Minnesota eligible for hazard mitigation funding on a cost-sharing basis to prevent future damage from natural hazards. Disaster designations for additional counties may be granted in the future after additional damage assessments are completed.
07.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and U.S. Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz today announced that Small Business Administration (SBA) Economic Injury Disaster Loans are now available to small businesses and other organizations affected by flooding in Rock, Murray, Nobles, and Pipestone Counties. Last week, the USDA Farm Service Agency designated these counties as a natural disaster area, making farmers and ranchers eligible for emergency loans to help them recover and rebuild. The Economic Injury Disaster Loans are available to small businesses and other organizations that suffered financial losses as a result of the heavy precipitation and flooding. “Torrential rains and severe flooding delivered a major blow to communities and businesses in southwest Minnesota and across the state,” Klobuchar said. “These emergency loans will give an important boost to small businesses that suffered flood damage, and I’ll keep working to ensure that our businesses and communities have the resources they need to fully recover.” “When severe weather and flooding struck Minnesota last month, I saw firsthand that rural communities in the southwest were hit very hard by the storms,” Franken said. “I’m pleased that the SBA is taking this critical step to support small businesses with emergency loans, and I’m going to continue doing everything I can to help all Minnesotans who are still trying to recover.” “These emergency loans will provide support for local businesses and other organizations impacted by recent severe weather,” Peterson said. “I will continue to advocate for relief to ensure that those impacted by conditions outside their control have the resources they need to recover.” “I am pleased these emergency loans have been made available to help our small businesses,” Representative Walz said. “Just as emergency loans will help our farmers and ranchers recover, the loans provided by the SBA will help folks regain their financial footing. Going forward, I will continue to fight for our local businesses and communities as they continue to bounce back from the recent natural disasters.” Under the Small Business Administration’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan program, qualifying small businesses and private non-profit organizations can receive loans of up to $2 million. Eligibility is determined based on the size of the applicant, the type of activity, and its financial resources.
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and U.S. Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has issued a disaster declaration for Rock County and the adjacent counties of Murray, Nobles and Pipestone, allowing them to be considered for emergency assistance. The USDA’s Farm Service Agency (FSA) has designated Rock County as a primary natural disaster area, making farmers and ranchers in the county eligible to be considered for emergency loans to help recover and rebuild from the extensive damage caused by heavy precipitation and flooding. Murray, Nobles, and Pipestone Counties were designated as contiguous disaster areas and producers in those counties will also be eligible for emergency credit. “Weeks of torrential downpour and flooding have caused extensive damage to communities in southern Minnesota and all across our state,” Klobuchar said. “I called for this critical disaster declaration that will allow impacted farmers and ranchers to be considered for emergency loans, and I’ll keep pushing to ensure that our state has the resources we need to recover.” “When severe weather and flooding struck Minnesota last month, I saw firsthand that our farmers, ranchers, and rural communities in the southwest were among the hardest hit,” Franken said. “I’m pleased to see USDA responding to our request for a disaster declaration in these counties, and I’m going to continue doing everything I can to help all the rural communities still trying to recover from the storms.” “Severe weather has taken a toll on many Minnesota communities, with heavy rains, flooding and hail devastating local farms and farmers’ growing plans for the season,” Peterson said. “Unforeseen weather-related disasters are the reason the farm bill’s safety net is so important and this announcement will provide some much-needed relief for Minnesota’s farmers as they work to recover.” “I am very pleased that USDA promptly responded to our request for a disaster declaration. This will speed up the process of providing emergency loans and assistance to our farmers,” Representative Walz said. “I toured flooded areas and saw firsthand the devastation caused. It is exactly for these types of situations that I fought so hard to include crop insurance and permanent disaster assistance in the 2014 Farm Bill. As we move forward, I will continue fighting for our rural, southern Minnesota agriculture values in Congress.” Earlier this month, Minnesota’s congressional delegation also urged the President to issue a Major Disaster Declaration to assist communities that are working hard to recover from significant flood damage.
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, John Kline, Michele Bachmann, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, Erik Paulsen, and Rick Nolan today announced that Minnesota will receive $4.25 million in federal funding to help repair roads that have been damaged by the devastating flooding. The funding from the Federal Highway Administration’s (FHWA) Emergency Relief Program will help reimburse Minnesota for road repairs and reconstruction in response to extensive flood damage across much of the state. In a letter to the President yesterday, Minnesota’s congressional delegation also urged the Administration to issue a Major Disaster Declaration to assist communities that are working hard to recover from significant flood damage. “As we’ve toured affected communities in recent weeks, we’ve seen firsthand the damage these storms have caused,” the delegation wrote in their letter to the President. “After disaster strikes Minnesota, we hit the ground running and do not stop until we have the resources in place to ensure that communities can recover. We will continue to push for all available assistance at the federal level until the recovery is complete.” Eligible repair work includes emergency repairs needed to restore essential traffic, minimize the extent of damage, or protect the remaining facilities as well as permanent repairs necessary to restore the highway to its pre-disaster condition.
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, John Kline, Michele Bachmann, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, Erik Paulsen, and Rick Nolan today urged the Administration to provide federal assistance to Minnesota communities impacted by the devastating flooding that caused extensive damage across much of the state. In a letter, the delegation urged the President to issue a Major Disaster Declaration to assist communities that are working hard to recover from significant flood damage. Earlier today, Governor Mark Dayton formally requested federal assistance to help communities rebuild and recover. “As we’ve toured affected communities in recent weeks, we’ve seen firsthand the damage these storms have caused,” the lawmakers wrote. “After disaster strikes Minnesota, we hit the ground running and do not stop until we have the resources in place to ensure that communities can recover. We urge you to make the federal government a full partner in that effort.” The full text of the delegation’s letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We write in strong support of the request for a Major Disaster Declaration to assist communities in Minnesota that are working hard to recover from recent rain storms and flooding that have caused significant damage across the state. As we’ve toured affected communities in recent weeks, we’ve seen firsthand the damage these storms have caused. From the Canadian border to the Iowa border, heavy rains have washed out roads, bridges and culverts and damaged wastewater systems. The Governor has determined that these incidents are of such severity that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State, and thus has requested a Presidential Disaster Declaration. Given the degree of damage, we strongly encourage you to issue such a declaration in a timely manner and allow the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to begin to supplement state and local recovery efforts in these communities. After disaster strikes Minnesota, we hit the ground running and do not stop until we have the resources in place to ensure that communities can recover. We will continue to push for all available assistance at the federal level until the recovery is complete. Minnesota has faced significant disasters in recent years, from deadly tornadoes to widespread flooding, and we are confident that communities impacted by these storms will recover and rebuild. We urge you to make the federal government a full partner in that effort. Thank you for your consideration of this request and for your assistance in helping the recovery effort in Minnesota. Sincerely,
07.08.2014	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) -- Congressman Collin Peterson is pleased to announce that Elliot Jacobson, a Jefferson High School student from Alexandria, has been offered and has accepted an appointment to the United States Naval Academy. "I was proud to nominate Elliot not only for his strong academic and extra-curricular work over the years, but also for his leadership skills," Peterson said. "Elliot has demonstrated impressive initiative in his work and community involvement, and will provide great service to our country." Along with several academic accomplishments, he has been a part of the National Honor Society, student council, and American Legion Boys State. Elliott participated in many athletic activities, including swimming, diving, and tennis, and also has been active in choir, an a capella group, and marching band. Elliot is the son of Thomas and Joni Jacobson.
07.08.2014	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) -- Congressman Collin Peterson is pleased to announce that Nicholas LeTourneau, a student at New York Mills High School, has been offered and has accepted an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. "I was proud to nominate Nicholas not only for his strong academic record, but also for his involvement in numerous extra-curricular activities," Peterson said. "Nicholas has demonstrated impressive initiative in his work and community involvement, and will provide great service to our country." Along with several academic accomplishments, Nicholas has been active as a Minnesota Business Professionals of America member, a member of the National Honor Society and Close Up, and Vice-President of his senior class. Nicholas also played varsity football, baseball and golf, and participated in American Legion baseball. Nicholas is the son of Bryan and Cassie Dunrud.
07.08.2014	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) -- Congressman Collin Peterson is pleased to announce that Ryan Gailey, a Howard Lake-Waverly-Winsted High School student from Winsted has been offered and has accepted an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. "I was proud to nominate Ryan not only for his strong academic record, but also for his involvement in numerous extra-curricular activities and his leadership in FFA," Peterson said. "Ryan has demonstrated impressive initiative in his work and community involvement, and will provide great service to our country." Along with several academic accomplishments, Ryan has been an active FFA member, a member of the National Honor Society, and an American Legion Boys State attendee. Ryan also was varsity football captain, and also participated in baseball and track and field. Ryan is the son of David and Lori Gailey.
07.03.2014	MINNEAPOLIS, MN – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Tim Walz and Collin Peterson urged the U.S. Department of Agriculture to support Minnesota farmers and ranchers impacted by flooding. In a letter to Minnesota State Executive Director of the USDA Farm Service Agency Debra Crusoe, the lawmakers urged the agency to hold public outreach meetings in flood impacted areas to ensure farmers and ranchers fully understand the support and resources available to them. At an event in Minnesota, Klobuchar and Peterson received a commitment from Secretary Vilsack that USDA and the Farm Service Agency will do everything they can to provide any necessary resources and support. A recent USDA report indicated 53 percent of Minnesota’s farm fields have surplus topsoil moisture and 49 percent have surplus subsoil moisture. Sen. Franken also spoke with Secretary Vilsack yesterday about the damage to Minnesota agriculture, urging him to do all he can to provide support to Minnesota farmers and ranchers impacted by the disaster. Sen. Franken asked the Secretary to work closely with local Farm Service Agency offices to assess the damage and properly compensate farmers and ranchers for their losses. “Minnesota is experiencing significant and severe flooding, affecting producers in a number of regions across the state,” the lawmakers wrote. “As the disaster continues, farmers and ranchers are sure to have questions about the Farm Service Agency (FSA) programs available to them, the process they need to follow to apply for these resources, and the timeline for distribution of funding. Your constant communication with Minnesota farmers and ranchers will be critical as they continue to evaluate their losses and recover from this disaster.” Earlier this year, Congress passed a Farm Bill that for the first time permanently authorized disaster assistance programs with mandatory funding for farmers and ranchers experiencing losses due to natural disasters. These disaster assistance programs will provide critical support to farmers and ranchers impacted by flooding. The full text of the lawmakers’ letter is below: Dear Ms. Crusoe: As you know, Minnesota is experiencing significant and severe flooding, affecting producers in a number of regions across the state. As the disaster continues, farmers and ranchers are sure to have questions about the Farm Service Agency (FSA) programs available to them, the process they need to follow to apply for these resources, and the timeline for distribution of funding. Earlier this year Congress passed a historic Farm Bill that for the first time permanently authorized disaster assistance programs with mandatory funding for farmers and ranchers experiencing losses due to natural disasters. The disaster programs authorized by the previous Farm Bill expired in September 2011 leaving these producers without access to disaster assistance for more than two years. Given the lapse in disaster assistance combined with the subsequent funding of these critical tools in the Farm Bill, it is easy to see how Minnesota producers may have additional questions about the resources available to them. Due to the urgent nature of this disaster, we urge you to hold public outreach meetings throughout flood-impacted areas to ensure that impacted farmers and ranchers fully understand the following: · All programs and assistance for which they are eligible, including those that cover livestock losses, losses of pastureland, hay or other forage, and crop losses; · The interaction between these programs and other risk management tools, such as crop insurance; · Availability of the Conservation Reserve Program, the Emergency Conservation Program, and the Emergency Watershed Protection Program to help address the shortage of forage and other conservation challenges; · All FSA credit options available to producers affected by the disaster; · The complete process by which producers can apply for these resources; and · The timeline for distribution of funds. We also urge you to continue stressing the need for producers to report their losses to their county FSA office in an accurate and timely manner. Your constant communication with Minnesota farmers and ranchers will be critical as they continue to evaluate their losses and recover from this disaster. Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely,
06.27.2014	(WASHINGTON DC) – Reps. Collin Peterson (D-Minn) and Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill) led a letter with 50 House Members to President Obama expressing concern over reports that the Administration is considering issuing a final 2014 Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) of 1.28 billion gallons for biodiesel, which would effectively cut the industry’s production by at least one-third from last year’s demonstrated volume. "I believe this action could negatively affect the U.S. biodiesel industry and am concerned that this would disproportionally hit small producers," Peterson said. "I hope that the Administration recognizes that this action would send a terrible signal to domestic biodiesel producers." The letter stresses the fact that biodiesel producers around the nation have the ability to produce nearly two billion gallons a year of the only EPA-approved and commercially available advanced biofuel. The letter also says that now is not the time for a critical shift in biodiesel policy and asks that the Administration consider raising biodiesel’s Renewable Volume Obligations for 2014 above 1.28 billion gallons. Downloads » Biodiesel Volume Letter 6-26-14.pdf
06.12.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Governor Mark Dayton, U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz, and Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell met to continue pressing the Administration to complete the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System (LCRWS). During the meeting, the lawmakers and Governor Dayton highlighted the need for the Administration to make good on its commitment and provide the funding necessary to connect Minnesota communities in need of water. Minnesota recently approved $22 million in state money to complete the first phase of the project, but additional funds are still needed to see the project through. “The Lewis and Clark water project is critical to the economic development and well-being of southwest Minnesota,” Klobuchar said. “I organized today’s meeting with Secretary Jewell to highlight the impact this delay is having on Minnesota communities and why it’s so important for the Administration to provide the funds the project needs for completion. It was a productive conversation and I thank Secretary Jewell for meeting with us and look forward to working with her to get this done.” “The Lewis and Clark water project is critically important to jobs and economic development in communities across southwestern Minnesota,” Franken said. “I thank Interior Secretary Sally Jewell for updating us on the project. The urgency to complete the Lewis and Clark water project grows every day, and I look forward to working with Secretary Jewell, the State of Minnesota, and Congress to finally get this project completed and get the water flowing to southwest Minnesota.” "We had a productive meeting with Secretary Jewell,” Governor Mark Dayton said. “Minnesota Senators Klobuchar and Franken, and Congressmen Walz and Peterson are working very hard to obtain continued funding, and I will do the same in Minnesota." “Delivering an abundant supply of water to our communities is a basic necessity for every community, not only to survive, but to grow and prosper,” Walz said. “We must all continue working together, Democrat and Republican, to push the Administration to uphold their end of the bargain and get this project done.” “This water project is critical to so many communities in southwest Minnesota," Peterson said. "These federal delays are frustrating and need to be addressed, and I will continue to work with my colleagues and the department to fulfill the federal commitment to finish this project.” The Minnesota delegation has worked tirelessly to secure funding for the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System. In 2012, Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Michael Connor met with local officials in Worthington to discuss the negative impacts that the lack of federal funding to complete LCRWS is having on communities in the region and push for more funding from the Administration. Klobuchar and Franken and Representatives Peterson and Walz have also previously called on the Bureau of Reclamation to give more weight to economic impact when prioritizing funding for water projects like the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System, and they are co-authors of the Authorized Rural Water Project Completion Act, which provide $80 million per year for 15 years, outside of the annual appropriations process, to complete construction of authorized rural water projects. The legislation would use resources from an already established fund in the U.S. Treasury – the bill would have no cost and expenditures would be prohibited if the spending resulted in an increase in the deficit. When completed, the Lewis & Clark Regional Water System will provide treated water to 300,000 people in its member municipalities and rural water systems in Iowa, Minnesota, and South Dakota.
06.11.2014	(WASHINGTON DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration has granted a one-year exemption to drivers transporting livestock and poultry from the 30-minute break requirement during the first eight hours of a shift. This requirement is part of the current Hours-of-Service (HoS) rules for truck drivers. Peterson had recently asked DOT Secretary Foxx to consider such an exemption for animal welfare. "I wrote to DOT and FMCSA as a result of hearing from several livestock and poultry producers who were concerned that if they were required to take 30-minute rest breaks, the animals they were transporting might suffer in the heat," Peterson said. "I am pleased to see the agencies agree with this common sense request." In 2013, FMCSA granted livestock haulers a 90-day waiver during the hot summer months with no adverse effects to safety. As authorized by Congress, FMCSA carefully considers and collects public comments on all applications for exemptions from federal regulations, including Hours-of-Service for truck drivers.
06.04.2014	(WASHINGTON DC) – House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin C. Peterson today made the following statement after the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced sign up dates for the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) and the Transition Incentives Program (TIP). Continuous sign up for CRP and sign up for TIP begins June 9. Producers with existing CRP contracts expiring in September have the option of a one-year extension. "This announcement is good news in that the one-year extension will allow producers at the end of their contract a chance to get in the general signup next year if they want to. And with an aging farm population, the TIP Program will help to expand opportunities for beginning, socially disadvantaged and veteran farmers looking to get started in agriculture." CRP provides incentives to producers who utilize conservation methods on environmentally-sensitive lands. TIP provides two additional years of payments for retired farmers and ranchers who transition expiring CRP acres to socially disadvantaged, military veteran or beginning producers who return the land to sustainable grazing or crop production. Both programs were reauthorized by the 2014 Farm Bill. ###
05.28.2014	(WASHINGTON DC) – Statement from Congressman Collin C. Peterson calling for the resignation of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki: "I am now ready to call for the resignation of VA Secretary Shinseki. I have been waiting for information and guidance from members of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, and after talking to members of the committee and seeing the Inspector General's report, I have come to the conclusion that there needs to be accountability and new leadership and the best step forward is for the Secretary to offer his resignation so we can start fixing the problems where they exist. We have to do better by our veterans." ###
05.28.2014	(WASHINGTON DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson has introduced H.Res.588, a resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives to address the suspension of exit permit issuances for adopted children in the Democratic Republic of Congo. In September 2013, adoptions from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) were suspended when the Congolese Immigration Authorities informed U.S. authorities that they would no longer be issuing exit permits to adopted children seeking to depart the country with their adoptive parents. In April, Congressman Peterson was contacted by a constituent whose family has legally adopted a four-year-old girl in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Although the family has a visa for the girl and all the necessary paperwork, they are not being allowed to bring the girl to the United States. It is estimated that there are one of hundreds of U.S. families waiting to bring home an adopted child from the Congo. "I am hopeful that this legislation will help to encourage continued dialogue between the United States and the DRC," Peterson said. "Families who've gone through this adoption process shouldn't have to keep waiting to bring these children home." ###
05.27.2014	(WASHINGTON DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson announced that the Red River Valley of the North was named as part of the Prairie Grasslands Critical Conservation Area under USDA's Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP). The RCPP will allow USDA to partner with third parties or work directly with producers in watersheds and other critical conservation areas. "This program is something I've long-advocated for and put in the 2014 Farm Bill to allow us to use existing conservation programs to help implement water retention in the Red River Valley and other parts of the country," Peterson said. "I expect that USDA’s Natural Resources Conservation Service, watershed districts and farmers will be able to build on these conservation programs to support water retention and help reduce flooding in the Valley while improving water quality and increasing habitat." RCPP incorporates the Agricultural Water Enhancement Program (AWEP), the Cooperative Conservation Partnership Initiative (CCPI), the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Program (CBWP), and the Great Lakes Basin Program for soil erosion and sediment control (GLBP). Both AWEP and CCPI utilized partnership agreements to focus conservation program funds to targeted areas. ###
05.23.2014	June 6, 2014, marks the 70th anniversary of D-Day, the first day of the invasion at Normandy. Our country will long remember those Americans who bravely gave or risked their lives for a worthy cause. I would like to recognize the 16 million Americans who served in the armed forces during World War II and the millions more who supported them at home. Throughout my congressional career, I have made it a priority to ensure that our men and women in uniform, those who wore the uniform, and their families have a voice in Washington DC. It has been a privilege and an honor to spend time with veterans and their loved ones when I travel around the district. Across the country, more than 20 percent of the 22 million veterans living in our country today reside in rural areas. In the 38 counties that make up Minnesota's Seventh District, we have more than 27,000 veterans under the age of 65, and around 24,000 veterans over the age of 65. Not surprisingly, a disproportionate share of men and women who serve in the military today grew up in rural areas, and return home to rural areas. Because so many of our veterans have returned home from service with serious health problems, I'm proud to have worked toward the improvement of access to care through community based outpatient clinics. I'm also proud to say that educational opportunities in our rural communities are strong as a result of the Post 9-11 GI Bill Congress passed to help veterans afford college. I also want to recognize the military family organizations and veterans service organizations that do so much to support and serve our country. These patriots who continue to serve long after their orders have expired are the living embodiment--and the conscience--of the American spirit. Their service extends beyond the military. Organizations like the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans and others are important assets in our communities. Across Minnesota's Seventh District, and across the country, these groups provide leadership and guidance, they are a role model for our children, and they are a constant reminder of the call to and value of public service This Memorial Day, during parades, ceremonies, and prayer services across the country, Americans will come together to remember those who have sacrificed their lives on behalf of our country in the name of freedom and democracy. The debt owed to them is immeasurable.
05.21.2014	(WASHINGTON DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson has written to USDA Risk Management Administrator Brandon Willis to request a delay in May 25 and May 31 planting dates for corn, grain and silage as they apply to certain Minnesota counties. In the letter, Peterson says that while farmers in Minnesota have planted approximately 53 percent of its corn acreage, that figure is not representative of plantings in the northwest part of the state. "In many parts of my district, wet weather has prevented farmers from even getting fields ready for planting, much less actual planting," Peterson wrote. " My growers would rather produce a corn crop than collect a prevented planting claim. Moving the dates back would give them that opportunity while lowering indemnities paid out due to prevented planting." ###
05.16.2014	(WASHINGTON DC) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson was recognized by the National Retail Federation (NRF) as a "Hero of Main Street" for his advocacy and leadership on behalf of the retail industry. "I'm proud to work on behalf of retailers in my district who help to keep our communities strong," Peterson said. "Our rural communities thrive when their local businesses are able to provide services and create jobs." "NRF salutes our retail advocates in Congress for their dedication and proven commitment to public policies that support prosperity on Main Street," National Retail Federation President and CEO Matthew Shay said. "Retailers are the heart and soul of our communities, and we are pleased to acknowledge lawmakers like Rep. Peterson who have consistently supported a pro-economic growth policy agenda to ensure a thriving Main Street and a healthy and vibrant retail sector in Minnesota." According to the NRF, retail directly and indirectly supports 1 in 4 Minnesota jobs and is responsible for 16 percent of Minnesota's GDP. This year’s recipients were recognized for their consistent support of the retail industry’s top public policy priorities. Award eligibility was based on key votes, bill sponsorship and advocacy on a wide array of retail priorities including but not limited to patent reform, sales tax fairness, the federal minimum wage and reforming the Affordable Care Act.
05.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken along with Representative Collin Peterson today announced that the final water infrastructure conference bill authorizes funding for the Roseau flood project and Marsh Lake restoration. The bipartisan provisions, which now go to the full Senate and House of Representatives for final approval, will ensure that these two projects can continue to move forward. While Roseau's project was included in the Army Corps of Engineers Work plan in March, this authorization helps keep the project on track if there are construction delays due to weather or other circumstances. “This bipartisan agreement is great news for the Roseau and Marsh Lake projects and an important step to ensuring they are completed,” Klobuchar said. “I’m hopeful the House and Senate will quickly advance this bill so that we can get it to the President’s desk and signed into law.” "This is an important step for these two projects that have been years in the making,” said Sen. Franken. “For Roseau, this provides certainty that their flood control project will be finally be finished, and for Marsh Lake, this gets them closer to beginning work on lake restoration. I'm very glad that we're getting this done.” "We've worked closely with community leaders in Roseau and with advocates for the restoration of Marsh Lake, to see these two important projects get the funding they deserve," Peterson said. "I'm glad to see this bipartisan bill finally moving forward." In 2002, devastating flood waters inundated Roseau, destroying homes, businesses, and county and city buildings. The massive damage necessitated years of recovery to safeguard the community from further flood threats. Without this critical flood protection project, the city will remain vulnerable to another flood event.
05.03.2014	"Our country and its infrastructure are a better place because of the work of Jim Oberstar. He was a brilliant man and a dedicated public servant," Peterson said. "His work helped to create countless jobs and keep our nation's roads, bridges, airports and trails safe. My deepest condolences go out to Jim's wife Jean, and his children and grandchildren."
05.01.2014	(WASHINGTON DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson wants to share an opportunity for you to stay up to date on his work in Washington, D.C .and in Minnesota. Peterson, who represents 38 counties in western Minnesota, provides a weekly newsletter for his constituents with updates on meetings and events happening in Washington, D.C. and at home. "It's an honor to serve the people of Minnesota's Seventh Congressional District and I hope you'll take this opportunity to sign up to receive my newsletter either by mail, or electronically," Peterson said. The newsletter includes photos of visitors to Rep. Peterson's Washington D.C. office, Rep. Peterson's travels around the district, and highlights local events, student artists, and events in history that you might find interesting. Get a copy of his weekly newsletter by going to this link: https://collinpeterson.house.gov/contact-me/newsletter or calling our Detroit Lakes office at 218-847-5056 to have the newsletter mailed to your home. ###
03.14.2014	(WASHINGTON DC) – The U.S. Chamber of Commerce presented Congressman Collin Peterson with the annual Spirit of Enterprise Award for his support of pro-jobs, pro-growth policies during the first session of the 113th Congress. "I appreciate the Chamber's efforts on behalf of small businesses, and I'm honored to receive this award on behalf of businesses across Minnesota's Seventh District who help to create jobs and keep our rural economy in strong shape." Peterson said. The Chamber honored 206 members of the House of Representatives and 32 members of the Senate with the award. “2013 was challenging, but a number of legislators from both sides of the aisle worked to pass legislation and enact policies that will keep our country moving forward economically,” U.S. Chamber President and CEO Thomas J. Donohue said. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award recognizes the men and women who have demonstrated their commitment to supporting pro-growth policies in the 113th Congress.” During the first session of the 113th Congress, the Chamber scored members on eight Senate votes and 13 House votes, including those to reopen the federal government and raise the national debt ceiling, reform the nation’s broken immigration system, delay enforcement of the employer mandate provision of the Affordable Care Act, and ease approval of the Keystone XL pipeline. Also scored were votes on a number of other issues including trade, transportation, legal reform, and the budget. According to the scorecard, in 2013, Congressman Peterson received a 77 percent rating with the Chamber and collectively holds a 64% ranking during his tenure in Congress.
03.05.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. [03/05/14]—U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Al Franken (D-Minn.), and Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.), said today that the Army Corps of Engineers plans to fund the completion of the Roseau flood control project in 2014, a long-awaited action that will help prevent a repeat of the devastating flood that destroyed homes, businesses, and public structures across the city in 2002. "Today’s announcement is excellent news for Roseau, which will finally be able to complete this long-awaited project," said Sen. Klobuchar. "The local community never gave up and worked hard with us to fight for this project and ensure permanent flood protection for residents and businesses in Roseau and the surrounding region. " "I'm thrilled that the Roseau flood control project will be funded to completion this year. I've been fighting for this project since I came to the Senate, and I'm so glad that this community will finally receive the flood protection that it needs, " said Sen. Franken. "I also want to congratulate Mayor Jeff Pelowski, the Roseau City Council, and city officials, who for 12 years have led the effort to ensure that the community is protected from the type of flood that devastated it in 2002. " "While this project has moved too slowly in the past, I'm very pleased with the news of its inclusion in the Corps work plan so they can move forward with the final phases of construction and finally get this done," said Rep. Peterson. "Without a doubt, the hard work and persistence of Mayor Jeff Pelowski and Community Development Director Todd Peterson has been the key to getting this important project done." In January, Sens. Klobuchar, Franken, and Rep. Peterson sent a letter to the Director of Civil Works at the Army Corps of Engineers, urging him to fund the project this year. The lawmakers said that city officials in Roseau have worked tirelessly to complete the project by marshaling state, federal, and local resources to ensure necessary flood protections for the city and its residents.
03.04.2014	(WASHINGTON DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson is inviting high school students from across the Seventh Congressional District to submit their artwork for the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. The competition is open to all high-school students, and the overall winner of each participating district will be displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel leading into the U.S. Capitol. "I hope students from across the district who love art will consider entering this competition," Peterson said. "This is a great way for young artists to show their talent at the U.S. Capitol for a year." The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nation-wide competition. Each spring, a nation-wide high school arts competition is sponsored by the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in the nation, as well as in each congressional district. Art works entered in the contest may be up to 28 inches by 28 inches by 4 inches (including the frame) and may be up to 3 inches in depth. The art work may be: Paintings - including oil, acrylics, and watercolor Drawings - including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers Collage (must be two-dimensional) Prints - including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints Mixed Media Computer Generated Art Photography All entries must be an original in concept, design and execution. Paintings/drawings/etc that are a reproduction of another artists work (including photographs) do not qualify for this competition. HOW TO APPLY: In an attempt to reach students from across the entire 7th District, this year my office will be handling all Congressional Art Competition submissions online to ensure accessibility for all students. To encourage participation, selection of the winning artwork will be made based on the photograph submitted with the application. Selection of the winning artwork will be made in early May, and further instructions will be sent to the winner. The deadline for all submissions to my office is April 29, 2014. To apply for the Congressional Arts Competition, please submit a photograph of the artwork, via email, to congressional.art@mail.house.gov
02.10.2014	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Collin Peterson (D-MN) and Congressman Adrian Smith (R-NE) today sent a letter to President Obama asking for immediate action to address the national propane shortage. More than 70 Members of Congress, including all the members of the Minnesota congressional delegation joined the Peterson-Smith effort by cosigning the bipartisan letter. “Any further reduction in supply threatens to leave many Americans without the fuel necessary to heat homes, businesses, and livestock and poultry operations,” Peterson and Smith wrote. “We ask that you take immediate action to help improve this dire situation and are prepared to help find responsible solutions.” National Turkey Federation President Joel Brandenberger said, "We commend Congressmen Peterson and Smith for leading this crucial effort. It is clear the quick action of our representatives played a key role in emergency federal orders for priority propane shipments. Pipeline regulators signaled their response to significant concerns from House and Senate pressure. Congress stepped up and extended a lifeline of support to secure propane for barns to keep animals warm and family homes safe in isolated farmland areas – for that we are grateful." The shortage of propane has resulted in price spikes across the country. The complete text is available below. --- President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We understand the current propane market supply issue causing shortages in many regions of the country is a complex situation with a number of contributing factors which cannot be ignored. Now, with more than twenty states making disaster declarations, we write to express our sincere interest in seeking solutions to the predicament. Several factors are contributing to the current price increases and supply shortages, including a large, wet harvest, unseasonably cold weather, and transport disruptions. With extremely cold weather conditions likely to persist, many of our constituents are on the verge of a potentially dangerous situation with few options. Any further reduction in supply threatens to leave many Americans without the fuel necessary to heat homes, businesses, and livestock and poultry operations. Given the importance of this situation to consumers, we urge you to do everything in your power to address this problem without delay. We ask that you take immediate action to help improve this dire situation and are prepared to help find responsible solutions. Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to hearing from you regarding options to alleviate the propane fuel supply shortage and assisting in any way possible. Sincerely, Collin Peterson Member of Congress Adrian Smith Member of Congress CO-SIGNERS: Collin C. Peterson, Adrian Smith, Walter B. Jones, Reid Ribble, Tom Latham, Tim Griffin, Steve King, Markwayne Mullin, Scott Rigell, John Shimkus, Tim Walz, Robert E. Latta, Rodney Davis, Sanford Bishop, Bruce Braley, Kevin Cramer, Dave Loebsack, Jeff Fortenberry, Betty McCollum, Lynn Westmoreland, William L. Enyart, Richard Hudson, Tom Graves, Mike McIntyre, Lee Terry, Mike Quigley, Kristi Noem, Rick Nolan, Austin Scott, Tim Walberg, Bobby L. Rush, Rick Crawford, Mike Kelly, Mike Michaud, Chellie Pingree, Cheri Bustos, Andy Harris, Dan Benishek, Doug Collins, Adam Kinzinger, Bill Huizenga, Todd Young, Fred Upton, Gary C. Peters, David Scott, Candice Miller, Michele Bachmann, Mike Rogers (AL), Billy Long, Bill Foster, Paul C. Broun, Gregg Harper, Mike Pompeo, John Kline, Spencer Bachus, Jackie Walorski, Ron Kind, J. Randy Forbes, Erik Paulsen, Chris Collins, Marc Veasey, Tom Reed, David P. Joyce, Chris Gibson, Aaron Schock, H. Morgan Griffith, Steven Palazzo, George Holding, Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson, Ann McLane Kuster, Keith Ellison, Bob Goodlatte, Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan
02.05.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – After a push from U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Tim Walz, and Rick Nolan, and Governor Mark Dayton, the Administration today announced it is taking action to make it easier to transport additional propane to Minnesota and other areas affected by the ongoing propane shortage. In response to a letter sent by the lawmakers last month, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) announced that it was extending the State Emergency Declaration hours-of-service exemption to March 1st in the Midwest region. The exemption will give propane suppliers the ability to safely transport propane via roadways from areas with a larger supply to regions affected by the shortage like Minnesota. More than 200,000 households in Minnesota rely on propane as their main source of heat. “As more cold weather bears down on Minnesota, it’s absolutely critical that families are able to heat their homes and stay warm,” Klobuchar said. “Today’s announcement will help deliver additional supplies of propane and some much-needed relief to families and businesses in Minnesota that have been hit hard by the ongoing shortage.” “The propane shortage in Minnesota has reached a crisis point,” Franken said. “That's why I've been pressing the Obama Administration to take immediate action and ease the burden for Minnesotans who are running low on the fuel. This is a critical step that will help get propane to the homes, businesses, and farms that desperately need it.” “Minnesotans across our state are living in fear that they will run out of the fuels they need to keep their families safe and warm,” said Governor Dayton. “On behalf of all Minnesotans affected by this ongoing propane shortage, I thank President Obama for taking action to help increase the transport of critical heating fuels into our state.” "It's good to hear that action is finally being taken to help with the propane situation. I continue to hear from folks in my district who are concerned about keeping their homes, businesses, and livestock barns warm during this time of high prices, and I look forward to hearing about additional actions that can be taken to help in these circumstances," Peterson said. "I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate to resolve this issue." “During this particularly harsh Minnesota winter, I am glad to see the Administration taking steps to help keep families safe and warm as we deal with this propane crisis,” McCollum said. “With prices skyrocketing and stores of propane growing shorter by the day across northern Minnesota, our ability to bring additional supplies into the state without undue regulatory barriers is absolutely critical,” Nolan said. “So I am delighted that the Administration has responded to quickly and positively to our request.” “I spoke personally with Administrator Ferro again yesterday and urged her to extend this wavier to help alleviate the propane shortage. I’m pleased that our call was heard and this waiver, that will allow truckers to quickly and safely increase the supply of propane in southern Minnesota, was granted,” Walz said. “While this is an important step to help alleviate the problem in the short term, more needs to be done. I will continue advocating for both short and long term measures to give southern Minnesotans peace of mind and prevent future shortages from occurring.”
02.03.2014	After nearly four years of work, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the 2014 Farm Bill conference report (H.R. 2642) with a bipartisan 251-166 vote on January 29. It’s been a challenging and sometimes frustrating few years. I’ve described the process as lunacy, Never-Never Land, and have lamented being caught in farm bill hell. But I refused to give up and through it all, the Agriculture Committee members were able to work together and get the job done. The Agriculture Committees have a strong tradition of cooperation. We listen to each other, try to understand each other and work together in the best interests of our constituents. Some see us as the only Committees in Congress that can put partisan politics aside in favor of a compromise. The 2014 Farm Bill continues this bipartisan tradition. This farm bill gives farmers and ranchers the necessary tools to provide American consumers with the safest, most abundant and most affordable food supply in the world. With roughly 16 million American jobs tied to agriculture, the farm bill is a jobs bill. The rural economy remained strong during our nation’s financial crisis and that has continued during our recovery; this is in large part due to agriculture. And this is why the farm bill is so important. Direct payments, outdated and indefensible subsidies that went to farmers whether they needed them or not, have been eliminated. Now farmers will have the choice of a price or revenue-based safety net that will only provide assistance if there’s a price or crop loss. Dairy farmers also will have a new safety net. While it’s not quite what I had originally proposed, I think this compromise will provide farmers the market-oriented insurance signals they need to address overproduction. The sugar program is continued, providing sugar growers with a strong safety net. Furthermore, the bill protects and improves crop insurance and provides disaster assistance for livestock producers. The 2014 Farm Bill’s conservation title, that allows us to continue to protect and preserve our natural resources, has been streamlined to be more efficient. Hunting, conservation and environmental groups have all praised these provisions. The conservation title also creates a new Regional Conservation Partnership Program, something I’ve long-advocated for inclusion. These regional partnerships will use existing conservation programs to help address water retention in the Red River Valley and other areas of the country. Additionally, the bill builds on the work done by the Land Stewardship Project in Minnesota to expand opportunities for beginning, socially disadvantaged and veteran farmers. It also builds on the 2008 Farm Bill’s recognition of the consumer demand for fresh fruits and vegetables, local foods and organics. And while I didn’t get everything I wanted, neither did anybody else – that’s how compromise works. Even with all the partisanship in Washington, the farm bill proves that compromise is possible.
01.31.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Tim Johnson (D-SD), John Thune (R-SD), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Al Franken (D-MN), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Tom Harkin (D-IA) and U.S. Representatives Kristi Noem (R-SD), Collin Peterson (D-MN), Tim Walz (D-MN), and Steve King (R-IA) today wrote to the Bureau of Reclamation asking the administration to give all due consideration to providing additional resources to advance construction on the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System. Congress provided the Bureau of Reclamation with an additional $27,098,000 for ongoing work on the six congressionally authorized rural water projects in the Fiscal Year 2014 Consolidated Appropriations Act. The letter notes that Lewis and Clark could utilize additional funding quickly and effectively to promote economic development and jobs. The full text of the letter is below: January 31, 2014 The Honorable Michael Connor Commissioner Bureau of Reclamation 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20240 Dear Commissioner Connor: As you know, Congress provided the Bureau of Reclamation with an additional $27,098,000 for ongoing work on authorized rural water projects in the Fiscal Year 2014 Consolidated Appropriations Act (P.L. 113-76). As you consider how to allocate that funding among ongoing projects, we request you give all due consideration to funding the Lewis & Clark Regional Water System (RWS) to advance construction of the project in a meaningful way. Congress authorized the Lewis & Clark RWS in 2000 (P.L. 106-246) to supply high quality, dependable drinking water to more than 300,000 residents in South Dakota, Iowa and Minnesota, across a service territory of more than 5,000 square miles. The project is currently 65 percent complete. Lewis & Clark has seen tremendous investment at the local, state, and federal level, allowing for the construction of intake wells, a water treatment plant, pumping stations, and pipelines that now connect 11 of the 20 member systems. Local project sponsors and the three states have collectively acted to provide their full non-federal cost share of $153.8 million. To date, the federal government has provided nearly $212 million, which is substantially less than the authorized cost-share. In providing additional funds for rural water, Congress directed the Bureau of Reclamation to give priority to a number of factors, including advancing ongoing work, enhancing national, regional, or local economic development, and promoting job growth. The member communities awaiting connection to the Lewis & Clark RWS have demonstrated the ability to attract economic development and jobs if sufficient water supply is made available through the project. For example, constrained water supply has prevented Madison, South Dakota from fully embracing new business and industries interested in locating in the community. In Hull, Iowa, a dairy plant is ready to expand when sufficient water is available. In Worthington, Minnesota, a pork processing plant has also expressed interest in expanding operations. These are just a few examples of many demonstrating the potential for economic growth with proper investment in Lewis & Clark. Without new connections, communities waiting to be connected have already spent nearly $9 million to address their short-term water needs and expect to spend an additional $8.5 million in the near future. For residents in communities that are currently being served, bearing the full costs of the system raises water rates above what would be necessary with a complete system. Lewis & Clark sponsors indicate that they have three pipeline projects that could be bid as soon as federal funding is available. The first connection to be made would be an approximately $18.5 million pipeline to Luverne, Minnesota. The estimated combined cost of the three projects is $34.4 million. We encourage you to work closely with Lewis & Clark to determine what funding levels would allow for meaningful progress on these pipeline projects. As you evaluate how to allocate funding, we urge you to consider the ability of the Lewis & Clark RWS to utilize funds quickly and effectively to promote economic development and jobs in communities in our states. Thank you for your consideration of this request.
01.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, U.S. Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Tim Walz, and Rick Nolan, and Governor Mark Dayton called for immediate action to address the critical propane shortage in Minnesota. In recent months, dramatically reduced propane supply has harmed Minnesotans who rely on this fuel to heat their homes and livestock producers who need it to keep their livestock and poultry barns warm. In a letter to President Obama, the lawmakers and Governor urged the Administration to knock down regulatory barriers and take additional steps to alleviate the shortage and provide relief to families and agriculture producers. “We write to express our deep concern over the ongoing supply shortage of propane fuel across much of the Midwestern and Northeastern regions of the country,” the group wrote. “Households and businesses in Minnesota and elsewhere have seen spikes in the price of propane fuels during the severe winter cold. Any further reduction in supply threatens to leave our constituents without the fuel necessary to heat their homes and to keep livestock and poultry barns warm. We are therefore asking that you take immediate action to help alleviate this dire situation.” The full text of the letter is below: January 25, 2014 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: We write to express our deep concern over the ongoing supply shortage of propane fuel across much of the Midwestern and Northeastern regions of the country. Households and businesses in Minnesota and elsewhere have seen spikes in the price of propane fuels during the severe winter cold. Any further reduction in supply threatens to leave our constituents without the fuel necessary to heat their homes and to keep livestock and poultry barns warm. We are therefore asking that you take immediate action to help alleviate this dire situation. According to the Energy Information Administration, last week's residential propane prices in the Midwest averaged $2.40 per gallon, compared to $1.74 per gallon a year ago. The situation is even worse this week. We are hearing reports that in some areas of the Midwest prices are already as high as $4 per gallon, and are expected to rise to $5.50 per gallon. Several factors are contributing to the current price increase and supply shortage, including unseasonably cold weather, supply disruptions, and an increase in exports. We urge you to consider taking a number of steps to alleviate this shortage: First, we urge you to maintain and expand the U.S. Department of Transportation exemption to the hours-of-service regulations for as long as may be necessary to address this crisis. Propane suppliers need the ability to safely transport propane from areas with greater supplies like Texas and Kansas to states facing shortages like Minnesota. Second, we urge you to work to address any regulatory barriers at the U.S. Department of Energy so that additional shipments of propane can be delivered by other modes of transportation, including rail and pipeline. For example, we understand that a pipeline that originates in Mt. Belvieu, Texas and terminates in Selkirk, New York, has multiple terminals throughout the Midwest, Ohio Valley, and Northeast and could ship more propane. However, current obligations have kept increased shipments of propane from getting into the pipeline, which is contributing to the shortage in our region. Therefore, it is imperative that the Department of Energy immediately begin working with pipeline and rail operators and other distributors in order to increase shipments of propane to our region. Third, we urge you to examine current propane market forces and consider exercising your authority outlined in 42 U.S.C. § 6212 to ensure a sufficient supply of propane for domestic consumption. While propane production during four of the last five years has kept pace with increased shipments of propane from the United States, we are concerned that over the past year these shipments have begun to outpace increases in production. Fourth, it may be necessary to physically deliver propane to communities in danger of running out completely – a development that would be devastating for those communities. If it proves necessary for state emergency management offices or other first responders to participate in such emergency delivery of propane, please ensure that adequate funds will be available in these circumstances. Fifth, we request that you provide relief in the short term and work to ensure that this problem does not happen in the future. To this end, we urge you to make emergency funding available to impacted Minnesotans through the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). We also believe that we should promote the efficient use of the limited supply of propane by making emergency energy efficiency grants to livestock producers through the Rural Energy for America (REAP) program. Given the importance of this situation to consumers in large sections of the nation, we urge you to do everything in your power to address this problem. Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter.
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON – House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson today hosted a meeting with members of Congress and EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy to express their disappointment in EPA’s proposed volume numbers for 2014. The EPA has proposed significant reductions to the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS). Peterson made the following statement: “I appreciate Administrator McCarthy’s willingness to meet with us and hope the Agency’s final rule will take the concerns of our constituents into account. The rural economy has been one of the few bright spots in recent years, due in large part to the RFS. Reducing the RFS would not only have a negative impact on jobs and the rural economy, it would also halt advances in the next generation of renewable fuels. I will continue to press the importance of a strong RFS as EPA moves ahead with the rulemaking process.” ###
12.18.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar and Collin Peterson’s legislation to rename the federal courthouse in Fergus Falls after Judge Edward J. Devitt, the former chief judge of Minnesota’s federal district court, passed the Senate. The bill now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Formally confirmed in 1955, Devitt served as a federal judge for thirty seven years until his death at the age of 80, including twenty two years as chief judge. “In his long service to the state of Minnesota, Judge Devitt exemplified the intelligence and integrity we expect of those who sit on the bench,” Klobuchar said. “Having grown up in East Grand Forks and being especially fond of the Red River valley, it is entirely appropriate that the courthouse in which he loved to preside will bear his name.” "Judge Devitt was a distinguished jurist and it's fitting to honor him by naming the Fergus Falls building after him," Peterson said. "Judge Devitt was popular among his colleagues, was a friend and role model to countless judges, and I'm pleased to help honor someone so deserving of this recognition." Beginning in 1983, the annual Edward J. Devitt Distinguished Service Award has been presented by the America Judicature Society in recognition of “an exemplary career and has made significant contributions to the administration of justice, the advancement of the rule of the law and the improvement of society as a whole”.
12.12.2013	(Washington, DC) -- Congressman Collin Peterson announced that USDA Rural Development will provide a $2.1 million loan guarantee to Great River Energy to provide financing to Vertical Farms Produce LLC for the purchase of equipment at their Fergus Falls facility. The project is expected to create 14 new jobs. "This is great news for Fergus Falls and for the region," Peterson said. "Value-added produce is making great strides in our rural communities along with the desire for local foods, and this will be a nice boost to the local economy." The project consists of Vertical Farms, LLC operating a year-round indoor growing and packaging facility using Artificial Light Vertical Stacking (ALVS) technology. The initial product will be lettuce, with expansion of the product mix to include herbs, spinach, strawberries and basil. Dale Didion, COO of Vertical Farms LLC, said that an outstanding group of people from the region who were focused on bringing business development to Fergus Falls should be commended for their efforts. "This is the first project of its kind in North America," Didion said. "Groups like Great River Energy, Lake Region Electric, West Central Initiative, the Fergus Falls EDC, along with Leigh Barry have been great to work with and are good people." USDA Rural Development has approved a 70 percent Business and Industry Guaranteed Loan for Great River Energy to fund the project. Additional funding partners include West Central Initiative, the Fergus Falls Port Authority, and the City of Fergus Falls.
11.16.2013	(Washington, DC) -- Congressman Collin Peterson announced that the White Earth Tribal Council has been awarded $642,899 from the U.S. Department of Energy to create a woody biomass-fueled boiler facility at the boiler room of the Tribe’s casino and hotel in Mahnomen, Minnesota. "The White Earth Tribe should be applauded for their efforts to improve energy efficiency and to create more jobs on the reservation," Peterson said. "Using sustainable biomass feedstock to heat the Shooting Star facility is a great way to save money and energy." The facility will be a 5 million BTU-per hour capacity boiler and will supply hot water heat the casino. Their existing boilers are 1992 vintage and are due for replacement. This action will offset approximately 60 percent of the casino’s current fossil fuel use of fuel oil and propane. The White Earth Tribal Council will match the award funding to complete the cost of the project. According to the tribe, this project integrates with the cultural, social and long-term energy goals of the Tribe and represents their efforts to put into practice environmentally sound, low impact, sustainable technologies that are not inconsistent with maintaining cultural traditions or depleting local natural resources while potentially creating new technology-based employment for tribal members. The environmental benefits and impacts from installation of this facility on the Reservation are: elimination of fossil fuel use at the Tribal casino, hotel and surrounding buildings as an energy source, reduced open burning of forest residuals, improved air quality due to reduced open burning, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions due to elimination of fossil fuels usage and diversion of crop and forest residues normally burned in the open, reduction in fossil fuels use.
11.14.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. [11/14/13]—U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), and Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) pushed for an increase in the authorized level of funding needed so that the Roseau flood control project may be completed should funding be provided by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The City of Roseau has secured funding for the non-federal share of the project, but without an increase in the authorization level the project will be delayed indefinitely. In a letter to the members of Congress negotiating the final version of the water infrastructure bills, Sens. Klobuchar, Franken, and Rep. Peterson asked that the final bill include an authorization to increase the level of federal funding necessary to finish the project in Roseau. In 2002, devastating flood waters inundated Roseau, destroying homes, businesses, and county and city buildings. The massive damage necessitated years of recovery to safeguard the community from further flood threats. Without this critical flood protection project, the city will remain vulnerable to another flood event. "The City of Roseau has secured their local match requirements but without an increase in authorization this project will be delayed indefinitely…The project is around 75% complete, yet it will provide no protection to Roseau until it is finished, and the community continues to live in fear of another disaster," the members said in the letter. "We commend you for your commitment to passing strong water resources legislation. We urge you to give the Army Corps the authority to finish the Roseau River Flood Control Project." You can read Sens. Klobuchar, Franken, and Rep. Peterson’s letter below: November 12, 2013 Dear Chairman Boxer, Chairman Shuster, Senator Vitter and Representative Rahall, We are writing to request inclusion of the Roseau River Flood Control Project located in Roseau, MN in the final version of the Water Resources Development Act of 2013. In June of 2002, the City of Roseau experienced a major flood that nearly wiped out the City. After receiving 12-15 inches of intense rainfall over three days, the Roseau River, which flows north, flooded its banks and its levee system. This region of the state is very flat and has relatively low elevation, which puts most of the City in the regulatory floodplain. When the River reached its banks, there was nothing to stop the flow of water and prevent the flooding. Only with the assistance from federal, state and local governments was the City able to get back on its feet. The Roseau River Flood Control Project was authorized in the 2007 Water Resources Development Act and the City has worked diligently to secure all their local non-federal match requirements. Despite these efforts, the Army Corps of Engineers has not been able to keep up their end of the project and now budgetary delays have increased the cost of this project so much that an increase authorization level is needed. The project is around 75% complete, yet it will provide no protection to Roseau until it is finished, and the community continues to live in fear of another disaster. As a delegation we have worked hard to secure funding for this project through Congressional Appropriations and annual budgetary requests. The City of Roseau has secured their local match requirements but without an increase in authorization this project will be delayed indefinitely. The federal government has already spent $19.7 million on this project, on top of the $42 million in recovery funds after the flood. Those numbers dwarf the small authorization change that is necessary to finish this project and provide this community the protection it needs. We commend you for your commitment to passing strong water resources legislation. We urge you to give the Army Corps the authority to finish the Roseau River Flood Control Project. Sincerely, ###
11.13.2013	Congressman Collin Peterson recently had the honor of congratulating one of his former West Point nominees on an Army promotion. Jon Pontius, formerly of Fergus Falls, received an appointment to West Point in 1992. After more than twenty years of service at West Point and as an active duty soldier, Major Pontius was promoted to the new rank of Lieutenant Colonel. "Jon was my first military academy nomination after I was elected to Congress," Peterson said. "I know I speak for all of us in Minnesota's Seventh District when I say how proud I am of his service to our country." Pontius is stationed in Washington, DC, and works in the field of operations research. He was a standout track and football star at Fergus Falls High School, and then broke records in the high jump, decathlon and pentathlon at West Point. In 1997 he was NCAA Division I All-American in the decathlon.
11.11.2013	A few weeks ago, I had the honor of nominating Montevideo veteran Orice Larson for the Patriot Award. This honor was awarded to Mr. Larson for his service to our country in World War II, and for his dedication to serving veterans in his community for many decades following his military service. This award is granted by the Civilian Marksmanship Program (CMP), a program that encourages safe education and handling of firearms. I was proud to be a part of the presentation of this award to Orice who served our country in World War II as a Supply Sergeant for 179th Infantry. His unit served in the Battle of the Bulge and infiltrated the Eagles Nest, Hitler’s final stronghold at the end of the war. Orice’s life has been full of colorful anecdotes. Since his retirement from the service, he has been a devoted member of veterans organizations. He served in numerous roles as a member of the American Legion, the Disabled American Vets, and as a Commander, Service Officer, and Chaplain to the Veterans of Foreign Wars. As part of his award from the CMP, Orice was given an antique M1 Garand Rifle, which turned out to be the exact same model rifle he carried with him in World War II. I'm proud to honor veterans and heroes like Orice and will be forever grateful for their service to our Nation. Our country's veterans are continuing to return from service with pressing needs. I am committed to making sure that veterans have timely access to benefits they have earned, and I am frustrated by the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) backlog of claims for disability compensation As a result of the recent government shutdown, veterans experienced further delays in the processing of their disability claims. Survivors and family members suffered the added pain of having to wait to bury their loved ones in National Cemeteries. Outreach and public engagement efforts were suspended, leaving vulnerable veterans unaware of benefits and services when they may need them the most. The one thing that wasn't affected by the government shutdown was veterans’ health care. VA hospitals, medical centers and clinics remained fully operational. Inpatient and outpatient care, surgeries, prescriptions, mental health, nursing homes and special health care services for women weren't affected by the lapse in appropriations. Why is this? Because medical care accounts are funded through an advanced appropriations mechanism that puts the necessary funding in place two-years in advance As a result, the failure to pass appropriations in a current year does not impact veterans’ health benefits and services. Nearly ninety percent of VA discretionary funding is for veteran health care, and is protected under this advanced appropriation mechanism. That's why I support and asked House Leadership to bring up for a vote H.R. 813, which extends the advanced appropriations mechanism to include the remaining VA’s discretionary accounts. My unwavering commitment is founded on a solemn promise to put veterans first. It's the least we can do.
09.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Rick Nolan, and Tim Walz today urged the Medicare program to reject recommendations from the Office of Inspector General (OIG) that would hurt rural hospitals. In a letter to the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the members highlighted the negative impact removing the “necessary provider” designation for Critical Access Hospitals (CAH) that fail to meet the distance requirements could have on both rural health care and their economies. Approximately 71 of Minnesota’s 79 CAHs are at risk of losing their status if the necessary provider designation was eliminated, which could threaten their financial viability and potentially cause them to close or scale back their operations. “Minnesota has one of the nation’s leading health care delivery systems,” the members said in the letter. “Critical Access Hospitals are an essential component of this delivery system. We strongly oppose the OIG recommendation that the CMS seek legislative authority to remove the “necessary provider” designation for Critical Access Hospitals.” The full text of the letter is below: Marilyn B. Tavenner, Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Hubert H. Humphrey Bldg., Room 310G 200 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Administrator Tavenner: Minnesota has one of the nation’s leading health care delivery systems. Our state has dual challenges of a large geographic area and difficult winter weather conditions which make life-saving access to care in rural areas all the more important. Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs) are an essential component of this delivery system. We strongly oppose the Office of Inspector General (OIG) recommendation that the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) seek legislative authority to remove the “necessary provider” designation for Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs). As you know, states could designate hospitals that did not meet the federal 35-mile distance requirement as “necessary providers” before January 2006. Congress created the necessary provider status as a way to give states additional flexibility to ensure access to care in rural areas. Approximately 71 of Minnesota’s 79 CAHs are at risk of losing their status if necessary provider status were eliminated. This could certainly lead to hospital closures, which would devastate access to care for Medicare beneficiaries as well as other residents and the infrastructure of our rural communities. Minnesota’s CAHs are often the largest employer in their communities, attract a highly educated workforce and serve as a vital resource for other employers’ recruitment efforts. CAHs provide these benefits while struggling under nation-wide workforce shortages, financial pressures as a result of the sequester, and the costs associated with the increasing sophistication of medicine, to name a few. Proposed restrictions on CAH status will also indirectly and negatively impact hospitals with other federal designations, such as Sole Community Hospital status, that do not take into account nearby CAHs in their eligibility criteria. This is in recognition of the need for access to more sophisticated services that CAHs do not provide but which residents in rural communities depend upon. Please reject the OIG recommendations regarding the CAH program and keep access to care close to home for Minnesota’s rural residents.
09.19.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. [09/19/13]—Today, U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Al Franken (D-Minn.) and Reps. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Tim Walz (D-Minn.), and Rick Nolan (D-Minn.) announced that $20 million from the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) will go to help community and technical colleges in Minnesota develop and expand innovative training programs. The grants, part of the Trade adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training Grant Program (TAACCCT), will be used to promote skills development and employment opportunities in areas such as advanced manufacturing, transportation, and health care. The funding will also help bolster partnerships between training providers and local employers in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). "From paper mills to poultry lines, American industry is changing. More and more businesses are using advanced technology and need workers who have specialized skills to use it," said Sen. Klobuchar. "This investment will help Minnesota schools continue to be a leader in preparing students for the ‘jobs of tomorrow’ that our businesses are creating today." "70 percent of the jobs in Minnesota by the year 2018 will require some kind of post-secondary education," said Sen. Franken. "There are high-quality jobs in Minnesota that are going unfilled because our workforce doesn’t have the skills to fill them. Because of this important grant, several of our community and technical colleges will be able to develop and expand their training programs and help Minnesotans gain the skills necessary to fill open, high-demand jobs. " "Our community and technical colleges do a tremendous job keeping pace with workforce needs in their regions, and provide affordable and accessible educational opportunities in a variety of career fields," said Rep. Peterson. "As a graduate of Minnesota’s community college system and parent of two Century College graduates, we know the power of these institutions to fill the educational needs of our communities. Community colleges play an important role in preparing Minnesotans for high-tech, quality jobs," said Congresswoman McCollum. "I congratulate Century College and the other institutions on this achievement. This funding will help support the top-notch education curriculum for which Century College is known." "Every time I ask local job creators and American manufacturers for the one thing they need in order to grow their business, they all tell me the same thing: a highly skilled workforce," said Rep. Walz. "These grants will go a long ways towards creating that workforce and allowing hardworking southern Minnesotans to seize opportunity and find good-paying jobs." "In the 8th District, I'm particularly pleased to see Pine Technical College in Pine City and Central Lakes College in Brainerd receiving a combined total of just under $10 million to boost their already highly successful education and career training programs," said Rep. Nolan. "What a boost for those institutions, their students and faculty, and the local communities that have been so supportive." The following community and technical colleges in Minnesota are receiving funding through DOL’s TAACCCT grants: · Minnesota State College-Southeast Technical in Winona will receive over $1.76 million as part of a 9-college, multi-state grant led by Lewis and Clark Community College in Illinois; · Century College in White Bear Lake will receive over $4.6 million as the lead institution in a 5-college, multi-state grant; · Pine Technical College in Pine City will receive over $6.89 million as the lead institution in a 4-college, multi-state grant; · Central Lakes College in Brainerd will receive over $3.7 million; and · Ridgewater College in Willmar will receive over $3 million as part of this project. TAACCCT provides community colleges and other eligible institutions of higher education with funds to expand and improve their ability to deliver education and career training programs that can be completed in two years or less, are suited for workers who are eligible for training under the TAA for Workers program, and prepare program participants for employment in high-wage, high-skill occupations. Through these multi-year grants, the DOL is helping to ensure that our nation's institutions of higher education are helping adults succeed in acquiring the skills, degrees, and credentials needed for high-wage, high-skill employment while also meeting the needs of employers for skilled workers. DOL is implementing the TAACCCT program in partnership with the Department of Education.
09.03.2013	Statement from Congressman Collin Peterson on U.S. Military intervention in Syria: "What's going on in Syria is deplorable, but at this point, I don't see how U.S. military action will accomplish anything toward ending the turmoil over there or helping the people of Syria which is my main concern. Along with my constituents, I am opposed to intervention. I am willing to listen to the President and others, but I haven't heard anything at this point that will change my mind."
08.15.2013	WASHINGTON – National Farmers Union (NFU) recently announced its recipients of the Golden Triangle Award, the organization’s highest legislative honor. U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson, ranking member of the House Agriculture Committee, once again was chosen as a recipient, as one of the members of Congress who have demonstrated leadership and support policies that benefit America’s family farmers, ranchers, fishermen and rural communities. “I'm proud to support agriculture and rural communities across Minnesota and the U.S.,” Peterson said." “I'm grateful for the work of Farmers Union members who advocate for agriculture in their communities, and for their support though the years." “Recipients of the Golden Triangle Award have been strong advocates for family farmers and ranchers, and support similar principles and policies as Farmers Union,” said NFU President Roger Johnson. “We are pleased to honor those who have proven to be true allies of our organization and our members across the country.” This year’s Golden Triangle recipients were selected for their leadership on a variety of issues, including votes on the farm bill and related amendments. The awards will be presented at a reception during NFU’s Annual Legislative Fly-In this September. The Golden Triangle Award is based on NFU’s symbol – a triangle with “legislation” and “cooperation” forming the sides and “education” the base. The Golden Triangle Awards have been presented to legislators since 1988.
07.29.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson, Michele Bachmann, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, Erik Paulsen, and Rick Nolan today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has issued a disaster declaration for Minnesota counties to assist their storm cleanup and repair efforts. The announcement comes after the members sent a letter last week urging President Obama to issue a disaster declaration to help the counties that sustained substantial damage from June’s flash floods and storms. “The severe storms this June led to high winds and flash flooding in 18 counties in Minnesota, causing extensive damage to roads, culverts, and bridges,” the members said. “Today’s disaster declaration will help the communities impacted by these storms remove debris and repair critical infrastructure.” The declaration designates Benton, Big Stone, Douglas, Faribault, Fillmore, Freeborn, Grant, Hennepin, Houston, McLeod, Morrison, Pope, Sibley, Stearns, Stevens, Swift, Traverse, and Wilkin counties as public assistance counties, providing assistance for emergency work and the repair or replacement of damaged facilities. The declaration also provides funding and makes all counties in Minnesota eligible for hazard mitigation support to prevent future damage from natural hazards.
07.18.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson, Michele Bachmann, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, and Erik Paulsen today called on the Administration to issue a disaster declaration for Minnesota counties to help storm cleanup efforts. In a letter to the White House, the members urged President Obama to take action to assist the 18 counties that sustained substantial damage from June’s flash floods and storms. The letter follows Governor Mark Dayton’s request for federal assistance. “The severe storms this June led to high winds and flash flooding in 18 counties in Minnesota causing extensive damage to roads, culverts, and bridges,” the members said in the letter. “We encourage you to issue a disaster declaration in a timely manner that would help impacted communities access critically needed federal assistance for debris removal and to repair critical infrastructure.” A full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States of America 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We are writing to you to request your assistance in helping our constituents recover from recent damaging winds and flash floods in communities across Minnesota. From June 20-26th, severe storms led to high winds and flash flooding in 18 counties in Minnesota causing extensive damage to roads, culverts, and bridges. The Governor of Minnesota has determined that the damage caused by these storms is beyond the capability of our State and local governments to address on their own. We support this request and encourage you to issue a disaster declaration in a timely manner that would help impacted communities access critically needed federal assistance for debris removal and to repair critical infrastructure. We thank you for your attention to this request, and look forward to working with you to assist the recovery efforts in Minnesota.
07.11.2013	Floor Statement by Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin C. Peterson H.R. 2642, The Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act --As Prepared for Delivery-- “Thank you Mr. Speaker. I yield myself as much time as I may consume. “I rise in opposition to this bill, for two reasons. First and foremost, I believe the strategy of splitting the farm bill is a mistake that jeopardizes the chances of it ever becoming law. And repealing permanent law all but ensures that we will never write a farm bill again. “I’m not alone in my belief that this is a flawed strategy. Last week, a broad coalition of 532 agriculture, conservation, rural development, finance, forestry, energy and crop insurance groups expressed their opposition to splitting the farm bill and urged House Leaders to pass a five-year farm bill. “When such a large group of organizations, most with different if not conflicting priorities, can come together and agree on something, we should listen to them. Doing the exact opposite of what everyone with a stake in this bill urges you to do does not make sense and is not the way to achieve success in my opinion. “I don’t see a clear path forward from here. There has been no assurance from the Republican Leadership that passing this bill will allow us to begin to conference with the Senate in a timely manner. In fact, the Republican Leadership has told agricultural groups to support this bill as the way to go to conference, while also telling Republican Members, fearful of the wrath of conservative groups' opposition, that there will be no conference, at least not without first getting concessions from the Senate; concessions the Senate will never agree to. “There’s a very real chance we could end up in a situation like we have with the federal budget, where the House Majority claim they want something but instead disregard regular order and demand preconditions before appointing conferees, leaving the bill hanging, with nothing getting done. “Maybe the Chairman has received assurances from his Leadership that should this bill pass, they will let us move expeditiously to a conference with the Senate and begin negotiations. I have received no assurance this would be the case and, unfortunately, the Majority's past performance does not inspire much confidence. “I have repeatedly said that if only we could be left alone, the Agriculture Committee could put together a good bill with good policy. Last month, Republican Leaders interfered by pushing into the farm bill poison pill amendments, amendments that the Chairman and I both said could bring the bill down. Even if the House passes this bill today, I fear Leadership's continued interference will doom any prospects of getting a bill to the President to sign. “The other fatal flaw with this bill is the repeal of permanent law from 1938 and 1949 and replacing it by making the commodity title in this bill permanent. If you want to ensure Congress never considers another farm bill and the farm programs as written in this bill remain forever, then vote for this bill. “In every farm bill, there are things some people like and things some people don't. The beauty of the '38 and '49 permanent laws is that it forces both groups to work together on a new farm bill, because no one really wants to go back to the old commodity programs. “If you make the new farm safety net programs the new permanent law, then those who got a better result in the commodity title this time have no incentive to work on a new bill. It will make it more difficult to make changes, improvements or reforms that over time we discover are needed. “For example, one reason I opposed the Goodlatte amendment to the Dairy Security Act was the knowledge that the amendment would likely result in large government payments to milk producers. I lost that argument on the House floor but if I am proven right, making this bill permanent law makes it just that much harder to correct. And for the specialty crop, conservation, rural development, energy, research and farm credit needs, they are not made permanent by this bill. “I guess I should not be surprised. Given the do nothing nature of the House Leadership, it would make sense they would support making it easier to do nothing in the future. “This is a flawed bill brought to us by a flawed process and should be rejected. “Again, Mr. Speaker, I oppose this bill and urge my colleagues to vote no. I reserve the balance of my time.” ###
07.09.2013	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson, Tim Walz and Rick Nolan today called on the Department of Agriculture to swiftly issue a disaster declaration for Minnesota farmers hurt by the shortage of animal feed. After the Agriculture Department issued a disaster declaration for 48 Wisconsin counties and 5 contiguous counties in Minnesota, the members urged the Secretary of Agriculture to take immediate action to provide Minnesota farmers with the same relief. Last year’s drought , along with this year’s late spring and heavy rains have led to exceptional losses to the alfalfa crop that Minnesota dairy and cattle producers rely on as a high-protein animal feed. The disaster declaration would make producers eligible for emergency loan assistance to help address crop losses and high feed costs. “The severe damage to the alfalfa crop coupled with excessive rain and flooding in many areas of Minnesota has resulted in economic hardship for dairy and cattle produces,” the members said in the letter. “That is why it is especially critical that you take immediate action on the disaster declaration request and other emergency authorities at your discretion to provide assistance for our producers.” Last month, the members sent a letter to the Department urging them to grant an emergency exemption to the November 1st restriction that would allow farmers to harvest a second crop or graze livestock on forages on prevent plant acres without penalty. In addition, the members requested emergency authorizations to allow for additional livestock grazing on Conservation Reserve Program and Wetlands Reserve Program acres and assistance for producers to plant high forage value cover crops. The full text of the letter is below: Honorable Thomas Vilsack Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack: We write to you in support of an expedited review of the Minnesota Farm Service Agency State Emergency Board’s letter requesting a disaster declaration for counties in Minnesota due to the significant shortage of animal feed for livestock producers. The severe damage to the alfalfa crop coupled with excessive rain and flooding in many areas of Minnesota has resulted in economic hardship for dairy and cattle producers. These producers are making critical decisions in the coming days and weeks about how to feed their animals and that is why it is especially critical that you take immediate action on the disaster declaration request and other emergency authorities at your discretion to provide assistance for our producers. We thank you for your attention to this critical issue.
06.13.2013	(WASHINGTON DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson has introduced a bill to name the Fergus Falls federal courthouse after Judge Edward Devitt. "Judge Devitt had an exemplary judicial career and was a dedicated public servant," Peterson said. "His service to Minnesota spanned decades, from the Naval Reserves, to the U.S. House of Representatives, as an assistant attorney general and as a judge." The late Judge Devitt, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota, was appointed to the federal bench by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1954. He became chief judge in 1957 where he served until taking senior status in 1981. He passed away on March 2, 1992. "Judge Devitt is the jurist most closely identified with the Federal Court House in Fergus Falls," said Minnesota Federal Court Chief Judge Michael Davis. "He served the people of west central Minnesota, and all of Minnesota, for many years and it is appropriate that we honor him in this way." The bill's language says, "The United States courthouse located at 118 South Mill Street, in Fergus Falls, Minnesota, shall be known and designated as the ‘‘Edward J. Devitt United States Courthouse’’. Devitt was born in St. Paul in 1911 and was elected municipal judge in East Grand Forks, Minn., in 1935, right out of University of North Dakota Law School. He served as an intelligence officer in the Navy during World War II, receiving the Purple Heart. He was elected to Congress from Ramsey County in 1946 but lost his seat to Eugene McCarthy in 1948. In 1950 he was elected Ramsey County Probate Judge until he was appointed to the federal bench in 1954. He was coauthor of the three-volume "Federal Jury Practice," published by West, which sets the basic rules of how federal trial courts are to be run. He also presided over many high-profile trials including the 1961 racketeering trial of Minneapolis gangster Isadore (Kid Cann) Blumenfeld, the 1963 fraud trial of former Minneapolis Mayor Marvin Kline, and the Reserve Mining Co. environmental trial in the 1970s. The Fergus Falls Federal Court House serves the Seventh Judicial Circuit and includes the counties of Becker, Benton, Clay, Douglas, Mille Lacs, Morrison, Otter Tail, Stearns, Todd and Wadena. The other Federal Court Houses in Minnesota are in St. Paul, Minneapolis and Duluth.
05.31.2013	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) -- Senator Al Franken and Congressman Collin Peterson are pleased to announce that Jacob Letson, a Bemidji High School student, has been appointed to the U.S. Naval Academy. "I am very pleased that someone with Jacob's talent and drive will be attending the U.S. Naval Academy in the fall," said Sen. Franken. "Each year, I nominate many impressive young people to our nation's military academies, and Jacob was one of the few chosen for an appointment because of his hard work, character, and achievements. I am very pleased he will be one of our nation's future leaders." "As a fellow private pilot, I was proud to nominate Jake not only for his academic and extra-curricular activities, but also for his dedication and hard work to achieve his goal of attending one of the service academies," Peterson said. "Jake has done some impressive work and is on a path to leadership and service to our country." Along with his academic accomplishments, including National Honor Society, Math League, AP courses and receiving the Naval Science Award at the MN State Science Fair in 2008 and 2009, Jacob participated in track and field, cross country, football and weightlifting. Jacob is the son of Tom and Liz Letson, and has a brother Donny.
05.29.2013	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) -- Congressman Collin Peterson is pleased to announce that Preston Peterson, a Willmar Senior High Student, has been offered and has accepted an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. "I was proud to nominate Preston not only for his exemplary academic and extra-curricular work over the years, but also for his dedication and hard work to his community," Peterson said. "Preston has demonstrated impressive initiative in his work, and is on a path to leadership and service to our country." Along with several academic accomplishments, including Honor Roll, AP courses and National Honor Society, Preston participated in soccer, football, hockey, tennis, student council, band, and choir. He also was active in his youth church group and has held various jobs in the community throughout his high school years. Preston is the son of Dr. Jon and Natalie Peterson and has a sister, Leah, and a brother, Landon.
05.24.2013	This Memorial Day, I wish to honor the men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our country. We remember the many thousands of brave soldiers who have fallen while fighting on our behalf. On this day, we also honor those still serving and their families who continue to make sacrifices for us. We remember all these men and women and express our gratitude to them and their families for all they have left behind. Throughout our history, America has fought not to conquer but to liberate. We go to war reluctantly, because we understand the high cost of war. Those who have given their lives to defend America have the respect and gratitude of our entire nation. On this particular Memorial Day, many of us remember the recently departed Alcuin Loehr. Al was a colleague and true friend. He was a crusader for veterans his entire life. He served in the Navy during World War II. He founded the United Veterans Legislative Council. He was the Minnesota Commissioner of Veterans Affairs from 1965-69 under Governors Rolvaag and LeVander. He also served as the national vice chairman of the VFW Legislative Committee. I was fortunate to have Al work on my staff to advise me on veterans issues for all the years I've served in Congress. He was a friend you could count on, and his passion and dedication for his veteran family was contagious. Minnesotans lost a great citizen and tireless advocate for veterans. While we mourn his loss, we will continue to honor his life by renewing our efforts to keep our promises to those still with us. That is why supporting our troops, military families and veterans has been - and always will be - a top priority for me.
05.23.2013	WASHINGTON – Senators John Hoeven, Heidi Heitkamp and Amy Klobuchar and Congressmen Kevin Cramer, Collin Peterson and Governor Jack Dalrymple met with Fargo and Cass County leaders to strategize efforts to secure permanent flood control in the Fargo-Moorhead area. Also, attending the meeting were Fargo Mayor Dennis Walaker, chairman of the Flood Diversion Authority Board Darrel Vanyo, Fargo City Administrator Pat Zavoral, Cass County Commissioner Grant Weyland, Cass County Administrator Keith Berndt and Clay County Commissioner Grant Weyland. The bipartisan, bicameral group of lawmakers and local officials say key to the project’s successful completion is House passage of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The U.S. Senate last week passed the measure, which includes authorization for permanent flood protection in the Red River Valley. Authorization allows funding to be provided for construction of the project, which represents a large step toward protecting people and property in the Red River Valley. “Permanent flood control in the valley is going to require a united effort to win passage of the WRDA bill in the U.S. House,” the senators and representatives said. “That means each of us using whatever tools and leverage we have in our respective roles to gain support.” Because of the scale and expense of the project, the congressional leaders said federal funding will need to be appropriated each year on an ongoing basis to cover the cost, which will be shared by the local, state and federal government. The total cost of the Fargo-Moorhead Diversion project is roughly $1.8 billion, with 45 percent, or $800 million, assumed by the federal government. In all, the state of North Dakota has committed to providing as much as $450 million in state cost-share funding contingent on both federal authorization and funding for a permanent flood protection project along the Red River.
05.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representative Collin Peterson today announced that Mahnomen Area Assisted Living Center, Inc. has received a $2,080,000 million loan to help fund the construction of a new assisted living center. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Program. “Minnesota’s rural communities are the backbone of our state,” Klobuchar said. “Support such as this helps ensure that seniors can remain in their community while accessing the care they need to live comfortably, securely and with dignity.” “One of my favorite stops to make when I’m back home is visiting with our seniors at assisted living facilities,” Franken said. “This funding will allow Mahnomen to build a facility that will give seniors the flexibility to remain independent while also providing the extra care they need. I can’t think of a better way to spend these funds.” “These types of facilities help ensure that all Minnesotans, especially those in rural areas, have access to quality housing and care,” Peterson said. “This project will also provide an economic boost to the Mahnomen area.”
05.03.2013	As usual in the Red River Valley this time of year, there is a lot of talk about the potential for spring flooding. There’s much discussion about the forecast accuracy and the area’s preparations for flooding. While the initial forecasts were worrisome, we’re fortunate that this year wasn’t as challenging as first predicted. The minimal flooding we will experience this spring is due in large part to the dry weather we experienced through the fall, which left room for the moisture from the winter snow and spring rain. I believe that through modern, controlled tiling systems we can create the same situation Mother Nature did this past year. Today’s tiling control structures give farmers the tools to control water, allowing them to move and store water as conditions change. Tiling not only helps farmers better manage their operation, it helps local communities reduce their flood risk. Local farmers who have made modern, controlled tiling part of their agriculture management plan have told me they’ve seen an increase in yields. As spring turns to summer there are sure to be more reviews of what was done right and what can be improved upon in the future. A valley-wide plan for flood control needs to use all the tools available to us and I believe one of those options must be modern, controlled tiling.
04.24.2013	(WASHINGTON DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson announced that Henderson Fire and Rescue Department has been awarded $603,638 for operations and safety from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). "These grants are critical to departments like Henderson Fire and Rescue, and I'm happy to see them get these funds for such an important project," Peterson said. "I'm thankful for all the volunteer firefighters and first-responders who are so critical to all our rural communities." The grant will be used to purchase communications equipment for emergency responders throughout Sibley County, including law enforcement, hospitals and public works departments, according to Tom Phillips, who has worked on the project since 2007. "We are just really grateful for the work of Representative Peterson and his staff to see this project through," Phillips said. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $5.25 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. The purpose of the AFG is to award grants directly to fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS) that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Using a competitive process that is overseen by fire service subject matter experts, grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. Operations and Safety Grant projects funded include professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety.
04.17.2013	(WASHINGTON DC) – The U.S. Chamber of Commerce presented Congressman Peterson of Minnesota with the annual Spirit of Enterprise Award for his support of pro-jobs, pro-growth policies during the second session of the 112th Congress. "I'm proud to represent businesses in my district that help to keep our rural economy strong," Peterson said. The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award, in its 25th year, is given annually to members of Congress based on key business issues outlined in the Chamber publication How They Voted. Members who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of those votes qualify to receive the award. “In the face of high-stakes politics and difficult choices, Congressman Peterson provided America’s job creators with a strong voice in Congress,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “This award recognizes Congressman Peterson for consistently demonstrating his support for pro-growth policies.” According to the scorecard, Congressman Peterson received a 100 percent rating with the Chamber this year and collectively holds a 64% ranking during his tenure in Congress. The Chamber scored Congress on eight Senate and 12 House votes in 2012, including reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, the establishment of Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) with Russia, and the reauthorization of surface transportation legislation. Also scored were votes to repeal onerous provisions in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, improve the process by which regulations are promulgated, and better secure the United States from cyber threats. To view a complete list of the 2012 Spirit of Enterprise recipients, please visit www.uschamber.com/soe. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers.
04.12.2013	(WASHINGTON DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson is reminding small businesses, small agriculture cooperatives and private non-profit organizations that May 13 is the filing deadline for federal economic injury disaster loans that are available as a result of the drought that began on July 17, 2012. This disaster declaration includes the following counties in the 7th District: Becker, Beltrami, Clay, Clearwater, Cottonwood, Kittson, Lake of the Woods, Lincoln, Lyon, Mahnomen, Marshall, Norman, Otter Tail, Pennington, Pipestone, Polk, Red Lake, Redwood, Renville, Roseau, and Wilkin. Under this declaration, the SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan program is available to eligible farm-related and nonfarm-related entities that suffered financial losses as a direct result of this disaster. With the exception of aquaculture enterprises, SBA cannot provide disaster loans to agricultural producers, farmers, or ranchers. Nurseries are eligible to apply for economic injury disaster loans for losses caused by drought conditions. Applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. Disaster loan information and application forms may also be obtained by calling the SBA’s Customer Service Center at 800-659-2955 (800-877-8339 for the deaf and hard-of-hearing) or by sending an email to disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Loan applications can be downloaded from the SBA’s website at www.sba.gov. Completed applications should be mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155.
03.25.2013	(WASHINGTON DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson congratulated Penny Turgeon Kimball of Warroad for being named the Women in Business Champion of the Year for the U.S. Small Business Administration's Minnesota District Office. "I was pleased to hear that a successful small business owner in my district is being recognized for both hard work and community support," Peterson said. "Penny's hard work and passion for her community, through the recession and through health challenges, make her an outstanding example of perseverance for other business owners and women throughout our state. "On behalf of all the people of Minnesota's Seventh District, congratulations and best wishes for continued success personally and professionally in the years to come."
02.28.2013	(WASHINGTON DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson will be a co-chair of the bipartisan Mississippi River Valley and Tributaries Caucus. The caucus has been formed to address the interests of constituents and stakeholders who live and work throughout the Mississippi River Valley and along its tributaries. The caucus is made up of four co-chairs: Peterson (D-MN), Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO), Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL), and Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-LA). The Headwaters of the Mississippi River originates in Peterson's district in southern Clearwater County, and its tributary, the Minnesota River, runs through several counties in the southern part of the district. "I'm hopeful that the members of this caucus will help to foster a climate of cooperation as we work to address the River's infrastructure needs," Peterson said. "We are committed to working across party lines to get something positive done in the coming months." The Mississippi River Valley region covers approximately 41 percent of the nation and over 250 tributaries. Agricultural products from the region alone contribute $54 billion annually to the American economy and represent 92 percent of the nation’s farm exports. More than half the goods and services that are consumed by Americans are produced or supplied by water that flows through the Mississippi River and its tributaries. “The Mississippi River Valley region is vital to our nation’s economy,” Luetkemeyer said. “This new Caucus is being formed for any House Member who is interested in having thoughtful policy discussions on the important issues that affect not just the Mississippi River but also it’s valley and tributaries.” “The Mississippi River is crucial to commerce in this country,” Davis said. “The river winds along Illinois for 450 miles, providing a vital artery to ship agricultural products and other goods that help keep this country moving. This caucus provides a bi-partisan forum to discuss the importance of the Mississippi River, especially to businesses, employees and families in the 13th District of Illinois.” “I am proud to join the Mississippi River Valley and Tributaries Caucus as a co-chair for the 113th Congress,” Richmond said. “I have spent my life in public service advocating for the people of the gulf coast and I am confident that the capable members of this bi-partisan caucus will come together on a host of issues that will benefit all of our constituents. We can, will, and must continue to prioritize our region.”
02.26.2013	(WASHINGTON DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson is inviting high school students from across the Seventh Congressional District to submit their artwork for the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. The competition is open to all high-school students, and the overall winner of each participating district will be displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel leading into the U.S. Capitol. "I hope students from across the district who love art will consider entering this competition," Peterson said. "This is a great way for young artists to show their talent at the U.S. Capitol for a year." The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nation-wide competition. Each spring, a nation-wide high school arts competition is sponsored by the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in the nation, as well as in each congressional district. Art works entered in the contest may be up to 28 inches by 28 inches (including the frame) and may be up to 3 inches in depth. The art work may be: Paintings - including oil, acrylics, and watercolor Drawings - including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers Collage Prints - including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints Mixed Media Computer Generated Art Photography All entries must be an original in concept, design and execution. Paintings/drawings/etc that are a reproduction of another artists work (including photographs) do not qualify for this competition. HOW TO APPLY: In an attempt to reach students from across the entire 7th District, this year my office will be handling all Congressional Art Competition submissions online to ensure accessibility for all students. To encourage participation, selection of the winning artwork will be made based on the photograph submitted with the application. Selection of the winning artwork will be made in early May, and further instructions will be sent to the winner. The deadline for all submissions to my office is April 22, 2013. To apply for the Congressional Arts Competition, please submit a photograph of the artwork, via email, to congressional.art@mail.house.gov ###
01.16.2013	(WASHINGTON DC-1/16/2013) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson issued the following statement on the President's gun proposals: "We all want to avoid tragedies like the recent shooting in Newtown, and I believe Americans want to do everything we can to make sure our kids are safe. The President has now put forward his proposals. There are some good ideas, some bad ideas, and some new ideas. There are ideas that have been tried before with limited success and some that would require significant new resources and spending. Some also require significant cooperation from states and other entities. "As I've said before, I want to remain open to all ideas put forward that have the potential to make things safer for our kids. The devil is always in the details, so I'm going to keep an open mind and not make any decisions until I've seen the specific legislative language and the specific language in any executive orders that are proposed. And I stand willing to work with anybody, including the President, on ideas that will help to keep our kids safer." ###
10.25.2012	Klobuchar, Franken, Peterson, Walz Announce Over $1.5 Million for Minnesota Farmers and Rural Businesses to Boost Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency, Reduce Costs Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz today announced over $1.5 million in support for Minnesota farmers and rural businesses to boost renewable energy and energy efficiency and lower energy costs. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Energy for America Program (REAP), which helps farmers and rural business owners reduce their costs by providing grants and loan guarantees for renewable energy and energy efficiency programs. “Programs like REAP give Minnesota’s farmers the tools they need to be more energy efficient,” Peterson said. “This support will lower agriculture producers’ operating costs while also allowing them to provide renewable fuels from the farm.” “Minnesota’s farmers and rural communities are the backbone of our state’s economy,” Klobuchar said. “Support such as this will help farmers and small business owners lower their energy costs and boost economic development by investing in the future of homegrown and renewable energy sources.” "As the author of the REAP provision in the Farm Bill that the Senate passed this summer, I understand that high energy costs are a pressing issue for Minnesota farmers and rural businesses," said Sen. Franken. "These REAP grants provide them with resources to help them install renewable energy systems and make energy-efficiency improvements that will cut their energy costs." “We must take control of our energy future with an aggressive, forward thinking energy policy that works for rural America,” said Walz. “Reducing overhead energy costs for local farmers and small businesses will increase their efficiency and help them grow and prosper—and that creates jobs. This funding is a step in the right direction." The $1,573,011 in support from REAP will go to farmers and rural businesses in the following counties: Becker, Benton, Big Stone, Blue Earth, Carlton, Chippewa, Cottonwood, Faribault, Fillmore, Freeborn, Goodhue, Grant, Jackson, Kandiyohi, Lake of the Woods, Martin, Morrison, Mower, Murray, Nicollet, Nobles, Olmsted, Otter Tail, Polk, Redwood, Renville, Rice, Roseau, Sherburne, Stevens, Traverse, Wabasha, and Watonwan. Klobuchar has been a strong supporter of energy development in rural communities. This year she cosponsored an amendment in the 2012 Farm Bill which provided $800 million dollars for energy programs, including REAP, the Biomass Crop Assistance Program, the Biorefinery Assistance Program and the Biodiesel Fuel Education Program. The amendment was included in the version of the bill that passed the Senate earlier this year. The Farm Bill passed by the Senate includes a provision authored by Sen. Franken that would reauthorize and improve the REAP program. ###
10.09.2012	Legislation allows Minnesota Chippewa Tribe Bands to receive funds promised from 1999 settlement Senators Klobuchar and Franken introduced the bill in the Senate – Representatives Peterson and Cravaack passed companion legislation in House of Representatives Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson and Chip Cravaack announced that their legislation allowing Minnesota Chippewa Tribe Bands to receive funds from a 1999 settlement has been signed into law today. The legislation was needed to resolve the situation because the Interior Department did not distribute the trust funds within one year of the judgment. Senators Klobuchar and Franken introduced the legislation in the Senate and Representatives Peterson and Cravaack introduced the legislation in the House of Representatives. "Today's action marks the end of thirteen years of efforts to see the settlement funds distributed and put to work for these communities. The Minnesota Chippewa Tribe can now use this settlement to make critical school, health care facility and infrastructure improvements," Peterson said. "I'm proud of the bipartisan effort to pass this important legislation and get it signed into law." “When the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe agreed to this settlement, they expected to receive the funds in a timely manner,” Klobuchar said. “This legislation that is now the law of the land will ensure they finally receive the settlement they deserve.” "Today marks the end of a long struggle by Minnesota's Chippewa Tribe to get the money they're owed by the federal government," said Sen. Franken, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. "I'm pleased that the Minnesota congressional delegation was able to work together to get this critical bill passed, and I'm pleased that President Obama has signed it into law so quickly." “After over 100 years since the damages occurred and 13 years after the legal settlement was completed, it is great to see legislation releasing these funds signed into law,” said Rep. Cravaack. “It has been a pleasure to work with members of the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe and the Minnesota congressional delegation to bring resolution to this long-standing issue.” In June of 1999, the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe agreed to a $20 million settlement with the U.S. government. The funds were transferred to the Department of Interior and deposited into a trust fund account established for the Tribe. Because the Interior Department failed to distribute the funds in the amount of time allowed, Congress must act to authorize the use or distribution of funds. The members’ legislation, the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe Judgment Fund Distribution Act, commonly known as the “Nelson Act Settlement,” resolves this situation by providing the necessary congressional authorization. Senator Franken authored the bill in the Senate and Representative Peterson authored the bill in the House. ###
10.04.2012	Washington, DC [10/4/2012] – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has issued a disaster declaration for counties in Minnesota affected by the ongoing drought. This declaration means that farmers in these counties are now eligible for emergency loan assistance from the Farm Service Agency (FSA) to help cover crop or livestock losses. “This action will provide some relief to Minnesota’s farmers and ranchers who have been impacted by this summer’s devastating drought,” Peterson said. “Farmers need a strong safety during difficult times which is why it is so imperative that Congress pass a five-year farm bill this year. I will continue my efforts to ensure the House of Representatives brings up the bill when we reconvene in November.” “As this drought continues it’s putting increasing strain on Minnesota’s farmers and ranchers,” Klobuchar said. “This action by the USDA is another important step in helping our farmers get through these challenging times, and I will continue to fight to move forward the 5-year Farm Bill that the Senate passed in June, which includes critical drought relief programs to support Minnesota’s farmers and ranchers.” "Farming is a vital part of Minnesota's economy, and this assistance will give our farmers and livestock producers some assistance so they can survive this year's drought," said Sen. Franken. "Farming is inherently risky, and that's why it's so important that the House of Representatives pass the Senate's Farm Bill so our farmers know they can count on a safety net when a bad year hits." “This important action by the USDA can help give farmers and ranchers some peace of mind during this difficult time,” said Walz. “What rural America needs now is certainty. House leadership should bring the bipartisan five-year Farm Bill up for a vote on the floor of the U.S. House without further delay. I will keep fighting for our farmers and ranchers.” The declaration designates Clearwater, Kittson, Koochiching, Le Sueur, Roseau, Sibley, and Waseca counties as a primary disaster area. Becker, Beltrami, Blue Earth, Carver, Faribault, Freeborn, Hubbard, Itasca, Lake of the Woods, McLeod, Mahnomen, Marshall, Pennington, Polk, Renville, Rice, St. Louis, Scott, and Steele have also been designated as contiguous disaster counties. Earlier this summer, Senators Klobuchar and Franken sent President Obama a letter urging a coordinated and immediate response to the drought. In the letter, the Senators called on the President to quickly form an Interagency Drought Task Force to bring together officials from every federal agency to coordinate responses and help provide relief to those affected by the drought.
09.27.2012	(WASHINGTON, DC) [9/27/2012] – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today made the following statement in recognition of Childhood Cancer Awareness Month. “Each year, thousands of American children are diagnosed with cancer. Fortunately, due to advances in technology and research, childhood cancer survival rates have increased significantly over the past few decades. Although we have come far, there is still work to be done. This month it is important to remember the young lives lost, offer support to children and families battling the disease and continue efforts to raise awareness and find a cure. “I also want to acknowledge the families affected by childhood cancer, especially the good work done by Minnesota Momcologists, more than 125 Minnesota mothers of children with cancer, who provide support and encouragement to other Minnesota families.”
09.27.2012	(WASHINGTON, DC) [9/27/2012] – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced that the city of Dawson has received an Economic Development Administration grant of $1,189,500 to aid in the construction of critical infrastructure. The grant is expected to create 137 jobs and leverage more than $35 million in private investment. “This funding is a huge boost to Dawson and the surrounding area. Investing in our rural communities, creating jobs and making infrastructure improvements, is important to getting our nation’s economy back on track,” Peterson said. “I commend the city for their hard work in obtaining this grant and wish them continued success.” “This award will enable continued development of our industrial site and will ensure our existing industrial base will not only be maintained but will allow for expansions and future growth,” said Dawson Mayor Merlin Ellefson. “We are very pleased with the Federal Economic Development Administration’s grant award for our community. This has been a true regional effort which we all will benefit.” The grant will allow the city to construct critical roadway and related infrastructure to make upgrades to the existing 40-acre industrial park as well as construct a new 65-acre industrial park nearby. The project also includes a new wastewater pretreatment facility to allow industrial expansion and make possible growth in the city’s agricultural processing center. EDA Grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the applicant’s eligibility, the application’s merit, and the availability of funds. More information on EDA’s grant process and investment process can be found at www.eda.gov
09.27.2012	(WASHINGTON, DC) [9/27/2012] – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced that the Bemidji Food Shelf was recently selected to receive a $300,000 USDA Rural Development loan. The Bemidji Food Shelf will use the loan to purchase an existing building for food shelf operations. “This is great news for the Bemidji area,” Peterson said. “One in five Minnesota children face hunger or food insecurity. This loan will ensure that the Bemidji Food Shelf can continue it’s good work feeding hungry children and families in the community.” “It seemed like a really daunting task to make this happen, and we raised about $250,000 on our own, but by the time you purchase the building and do all the necessary operations, without that Rural Development Loan we would not have been able to make it happen. That was really the linchpin that made it happen,” said Jack Judkins, Bemidji Food Shelf Coordinator.
09.26.2012	Washington, DC [9/26/2012] – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has issued a disaster declaration for counties in Minnesota affected by the ongoing drought. This declaration means that farmers in these counties are now eligible for emergency loan assistance from the Farm Service Agency (FSA) to help cover crop or livestock losses. “I am pleased that USDA will be able to provide some relief to Minnesota’s farmers and ranchers who, much like farmers across the country, have been devastated by this summer’s drought conditions,” Peterson said. “Farmers need a strong safety net when disaster strikes which is why I am continuing to urge Congress to pass the five-year farm bill this year.” “The ongoing drought is continuing to put strain on Minnesota’s farmers and ranchers,” Klobuchar said. “Today’s action is an important step in helping our producers get through these challenging times, and I will continue to fight to move forward the 5-year Farm Bill that the Senate passed in June, which includes critical drought relief programs to support Minnesota’s farmers and ranchers.” "This assistance will give Minnesota's farmers and livestock producers the help many of them need to survive a bad year and get back on their feet," said Sen. Franken. "This is good news, but this drought shows just how important it is that the House of Representatives pass the Senate's Farm Bill so our farmers have the stability they need to plan for next year." “This important action by the USDA can help give farmers and ranchers some peace of mind during this difficult time,” said Walz. “What rural America needs now is certainty. House leadership should bring the bipartisan five-year Farm Bill up for a vote on the floor of the U.S. House without further delay. I will keep fighting for our farmers and ranchers.” The declaration designates Lac Qui Parle, Nicollet and Yellow Medicine counties as a primary disaster area. Big Stone, Blue Earth, Brown, Chippewa, Sibley, Le Seur, Lincoln, Lyon, Redwood, Renville and Swift have also been designated as contiguous disaster counties. Last month Senators Klobuchar and Franken sent President Obama a letter urging a coordinated and immediate response to the drought. In the letter, the Senators called on the President to quickly form an Interagency Drought Task Force to bring together officials from every federal agency to coordinate responses and help provide relief to those affected by the drought.
09.25.2012	(WASHINGTON, DC) [9/25/2012] – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced that Prairie Ridge Hospital & Health Services has been selected to receive more than $24 million from USDA Rural Development to build a new critical access hospital in Elbow Lake and purchase a clinic in Morris. “Critical access hospitals play a vital role by ensuring that all Minnesotans, especially those in rural areas, have access to high quality care,” Peterson said. “This project will also provide an economic boost to the local communities.” The funding comes in the form of a $20,047,000 direct loan and a $4,030,000 loan guarantee through Rural Development’s community facilities program. The current Prairie Ridge hospital and clinic facility was built in the early 1960s and no longer fully meets the community’s healthcare needs. The new facility will be approximately 53,000 square feet and will include 10 private rooms, an emergency department, operating room, imaging lab, pharmacy, clinic and support areas. The facility will be fully handicap accessible and designed to improve the safety of patients and increase staff efficiency. It will be located on a 24-acre site. “Since 2009, Rural Development has invested $75 million to build or improve critical access hospitals in Minnesota,” said Colleen Landkamer, USDA Rural Development State Director. “Quality healthcare is essential to preserving the unique quality of life found in rural Minnesota. Hospitals are also a major job provider and economic development engine for our small towns.”
09.22.2012	Klobuchar, Franken, Peterson, Cravaack Legislation to Allow Minnesota Chippewa Tribe to Receive Settlement Passes Senate, Headed to President’s Desk to Be Signed Into Law Legislation allows Minnesota Chippewa Tribe Bands to receive funds promised from 1999 settlement Senators Klobuchar and Franken introduced the bill in the Senate – Representatives Peterson and Cravaack passed companion legislation in House of Representatives Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson and Chip Cravaack today announced that their legislation allowing Minnesota Chippewa Tribe Bands to receive funds from a 1999 settlement has passed the Senate, and will now head to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Legislation is needed to resolve the situation because the Interior Department did not distribute the trust funds within one year of the judgment. Klobuchar and Franken introduced the bill in the Senate and companion legislation introduced by Representatives Peterson and Cravaack has already passed the House of Representatives. “When the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe agreed to this settlement, they expected to receive the funds in a timely manner,” Klobuchar said. “Today’s action will ensure they finally receive the settlement they deserve.” "Minnesota's Chippewa Tribe has been waiting over thirteen years for the money they're owed by the federal government, and it's time for the government to do the right thing," said Sen. Franken, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. "I've been working for years to get this through the Senate, and I'm pleased that we've finally gotten it done." "H.R. 1272 is the best and most realistic compromise to release this long overdue settlement. It has been thirteen years and, while I would have liked to see all six Bands be in unanimous agreement on how these funds should be used, I believe it is high time this settlement is finally distributed and put to work within these communities. The settlement will help Reservations meet their needs for school, health care facility and infrastructure improvements,” said Peterson. “I represent five of the six bands that constitute the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe. Their representatives have all made it very clear to me that it is more than past-time to bring resolution to this long-standing issue. I agree,” said Cravaack. “Furthermore, my colleagues and I agree that this legislation is the solution to fulfill the U.S. government’s legal obligations, conclude its litigation with the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe, and release the over $28 million in settlement funds in an expeditious manner. I am pleased that the House and Senate have acted on this important bill so we can finally bring resolution to this long-standing issue.” In June of 1999, the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe agreed to a $20 million settlement with the U.S. government. The funds were transferred to the Department of Interior and deposited into a trust fund account established for the Tribe. Because the Interior Department failed to distribute the funds in the amount of time allowed, Congress must act to authorize the use or distribution of funds. The members’ legislation, the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe Judgment Fund Distribution Act, commonly known as the “Nelson Act Settlement,” resolves this situation by providing the necessary congressional authorization. Senator Franken authored the bill in the Senate and Representative Peterson authored the bill in the House.
09.21.2012	(WASHINGTON, DC) [9/21/2012] – Congressman Collin C. Peterson this week received the Concord Coalition Paul E. Tsongas Economic Patriot Award for his support of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform (the Simpson-Bowles commission). Peterson was one of only 38 House members who supported the bipartisan budget. “I know we can balance the budget and reduce the deficit in a responsible way that protects our military families, our senior citizens and our children. I supported Simpson-Bowles because it was the only budget proposal that reduced the deficit responsibly, was bipartisan, and protected Medicare. Once folks stop fighting over ideology, we will be able to start working to put this country back on a solid fiscal path,” Peterson said. “We are honoring Republican and Democratic House members who this year put the national interest above political partisanship,” said Robert L. Bixby, Concord’s executive director. “Instead of pursuing narrow agendas, they put everything on the table, made tough choices and called for shared sacrifice. Their plan could rein in projected deficits and put the United States on a more responsible and sustainable course – one that would protect our nation’s strength and shield future generations of Americans from crippling national debt.” The Paul E. Tsongas Economic Patriot Award, named for one of Concord’s founding co-chairmen, honors those who have demonstrated a commitment to fiscal and generational responsibility. Over the years it has been given to individuals of varied backgrounds and political affiliations for their lasting contributions to America’s economic health.
09.20.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C – Today, U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representative Collin Peterson announced $13 million for four Minnesota colleges, including Central Lakes College in Staples, to expand their programs to train workers for high-wage, high-skilled manufacturing jobs in Minnesota. A recent study from the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development found that nearly half of manufacturers in the state have job openings they can’t fill because they can’t find employees with the skills they need. The grant from the Department of Labor will be used to create the Regional Advanced Manufacturing Re-Training (RAMR) program to equip workers with industry-recognized qualifications in an effort to lead to high-wage, high-skilled employment opportunities for an estimated 3,900 workers. The RAMR program seeks to target veterans, the long-term unemployed, and workers who lost their jobs due to manufacturing jobs moving overseas. “This grant will enable Central Lakes College to provide its students with the necessary skills and advanced training needed in today’s job market,” Peterson said. “The RAMR program will help our communities continue to grow by ensuring local businesses can employ local, high-skilled workers.” “From paper mills to poultry lines, American industry is changing. Increasingly, economic success depends on matching advanced technology with workers who have specialized skills to use that technology and get the job done,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This investment will help Minnesota be a leader in the effort to prepare students for the ‘jobs of tomorrow’ that our businesses are creating today.” "Nearly every manufacturer I’ve talked with in Minnesota has told me that they have jobs they can’t fill because they can’t find workers with the right skills—something that shouldn’t be happening at a time when far too many Minnesotans are struggling to find work,” said Sen. Franken. "This grant will help provide manufacturers with a trained workforce, so that Minnesota businesses can grow and successfully compete." “This is a great example of two-year colleges working together with public and private entities to meet the region’s needs. The grant is a tremendous boost for regional manufacturing, students and for the colleges,” said Dr. Larry A. Lundblad, President Central Lakes College. “This is a wonderful day for rural Minnesota and career and technical education.” The grant will be administered through the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training program and will also be provided to St. Cloud Technical and Community College in St. Cloud, Pine Technical College in Pine City, and Bemidji State University in Bemidji.
09.18.2012	Sens. Klobuchar, Franken, Rep. Peterson Announce Over $7 Million to Improve Minnesota's Rural Water Infrastructure Funds Will Go to Facilities in Raymond, Hanley Falls, Vesta, Backus, Ogilvie WASHINGTON, D.C. [09/18/12]—Today, U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken (D-Minn.) and U.S. Rep Collin Peterson announced that five communities in Minnesota have been selected to receive USDA Rural Development funding to improve their water and wastewater treatment facilities. “Rural residents and businesses need access to safe, high quality water,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This support for local infrastructure will help provide communities with the tools they need to help their economies grow and thrive.” "Every Minnesotan should have access to clean water, whether they live in a big city or a small town," said Sen. Franken. "These federal dollars will improve the water infrastructure in each of these communities, helping ensure that they can create jobs and grow their economies." "Making infrastructure investments will give these communities the opportunity to grow and ensure safe wastewater treatment and reliable water sources for area residents,” said Rep. Peterson, who represents Raymond, Hanley Falls, and Vesta. Specifically, USDA Rural Development has awarded: a $1,974,000 loan and a $1,879,000 grant to the city of Raymond to update the city’s wastewater treatment and collection system; a $379,000 loan and a $93,000 grant to the city of Hanley Falls to make necessary improvements to its sanitary sewer collection and water distribution systems; a $784,000 loan and a $586,000 grant to the city of Vesta to make necessary improvements to its water treatment and distribution system; a $503,000 loan and an $878,000 grant to the city of Backus to regionalize wastewater treatment services with the nearby city of Pine River; and a $157,000 loan and an $87,000 grant to the city of Ogilvie to restore its historically significant water tower.
09.17.2012	(WASHINGTON, DC) [9/17/2012] – Congressman Collin C. Peterson was recently awarded the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) Guardian of Small Business Award for the 112th Congress. This award is given to members of Congress based on their small business voting record. “Having started a small business myself I understand the difficulties small business owners face. In this economy especially I believe it is important to stand up for small businesses and their employees,” Peterson said. “The record shows that Rep. Peterson is a true champion of small business, having stood strong on the key small-business votes in the 112th Congress,” said NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business.” NFIB used 13 votes in the 112th Congress to determine the score. Peterson received 70 percent rating. NFIB is a non-profit, non-partisan member organization which represents the concerns of small businesses at the federal level and at state legislatures.
09.13.2012	Washington, DC [9/13/2012] – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has issued a disaster declaration for counties in Minnesota affected by the ongoing drought. This declaration means that farmers in these counties are now eligible for emergency loan assistance from the Farm Service Agency (FSA) to help cover crop or livestock losses. “Producers across the country have been impacted by weather conditions out of their control. I’m pleased to see USDA utilize existing farm bill programs to provide Minnesota farmers with much-needed relief,” Peterson said. “I remain committed to ensuring a strong safety net is in place by continuing to urge my colleagues in the House to pass a five-year farm bill.” “As this drought continues it’s putting increasing strain on Minnesota’s farmers and ranchers,” Klobuchar said. “This action by the USDA is another important step in helping our farmers get through these challenging times, and I will continue to work to ensure they have the support they need.” "Minnesota's farmers and livestock producers need to know they'll be able to survive a bad year, and this assistance will help them cover their losses and get back on their feet," said Sen. Franken. "I've been fighting for legislation that would restore federal drought relief programs that have lapsed, and it's still incredibly important that we pass a comprehensive Farm Bill this year so farmers all over the country know they can count on a safety net when their livelihoods are threatened." “This important action by the USDA will work to give farmers and ranchers peace of mind during these difficult times,” said Walz. “What rural America needs now is certainty. House leadership should follow USDA’s lead and bring the bipartisan five-year Farm Bill forward for a vote. I will continue working with my colleagues in the House to push leadership to make this happen. Minnesota’s farmers and ranchers can’t wait.” The declaration designates Becker, Beltrami, Blue Earth, Brown, Clay, Cottonwood, Faribault, Fillmore, Freeborn, Houston, Jackson, Lake of the Woods, Mahnomen, Marshall, Martin, Mower, Murray, Norman, Pennington, Pipestone, Polk, Red Lake and Watonwan counties as a primary disaster area. Cass, Clearwater, Dodge, Hubbard, Itasca, Kittson, Koochiching, Le Sueur, Lincoln, Lyon, Nicollet, Nobles, Olmsted, Otter Tail, Redwood, Renville, Rock, Roseau, Steele, Wadena, Waseca, Wilkin and Winona counties have been designated contiguous disaster counties. Last month Senators Klobuchar and Franken sent President Obama a letter urging a coordinated and immediate response to the drought. In the letter, the Senators called on the President to quickly form an Interagency Drought Task Force to bring together officials from every federal agency to coordinate responses and help provide relief to those affected by the drought.
09.06.2012	Klobuchar, Franken, Peterson, Walz Urge Bureau of Reclamation to Give More Weight to Economic Impact When Prioritizing Funding for Water Projects Like Lewis and Clark Minnesota delegation members, along with South Dakota and Iowa delegations, highlight critical economic impact of Lewis and Clark Regional Water System for southwestern Minnesota communities Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz today called on the Bureau of Reclamation to give more weight to economic impact when prioritizing funding for water projects like the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System. In a bipartisan letter to the Bureau on its proposed criteria for prioritizing rural water projects, the Minnesota delegation members highlighted the critical economic impact of the Lewis and Clark project for communities in southwestern Minnesota. In addition to the Minnesota delegation members, the letter was signed by the South Dakota and Iowa congressional delegations, including Senators Charles Grassley (R-IA), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Tim Johnson (D-SD), John Thune (R-SD), and Representatives Steve King (R-IA) and Kristi Noem (R-SD). “A basic purpose of a rural water system is to improve the quality of life of its customers and expand economic development opportunities, which is why we are disappointed to see that the regional economic impact is weighted at only five percent in the criteria outlined,” the members said in the letter. “We look forward to continuing to work closely with the Bureau of Reclamation as these criteria are finalized and funds are provided to fulfill the federal government’s outstanding financial commitment to the LCRWS.” Last month, Klobuchar and Walz held a meeting with Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Michael Connor and local officials to discuss the Lewis and Clark project and the need to give more weight to economic impact when funding water projects. Klobuchar, Franken and Walz also met with U.S. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and other Administration officials last year to urge the Administration to honor their commitment to local communities and move the bipartisan project forward. Klobuchar and Franken also recently cosponsored the Authorized Rural Water Projects Completion Act, introduced by Senator Max Baucus (D-MT), which would provide $80 million per year for 15 years, outside of the annual appropriations process, to complete construction of authorized rural water projects. The legislation would use resources from an already established fund in the U.S. Treasury – the bill would have no cost and expenditures would be prohibited if the spending resulted in an increase in the deficit. The full text of the letter is below. September 6, 2012 Mr. James Hess Bureau of Reclamation 1849 C Street, NW, MC: 96-42000 Washington, DC 20240 Dear Mr. Hess: As federal representatives of the partner communities, rural water systems and states of the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System (LCRWS) project, we write to submit the following comments on the proposed criteria for prioritizing rural water projects contained in the draft Rural Water Assessment Report released on July 9, 2012. A basic purpose of a rural water system is to improve the quality of life of its customers and expand economic development opportunities, which is why we are disappointed to see that the regional economic impact is weighted at only five percent in the criteria outlined in the report. We ask that it be given greater weight in the final report. Rural water projects generate both short-term and long-term economic activity and development. Construction-related and operating jobs come as a direct result of the project. However, once rural water systems, communities and businesses have access to adequate water, numerous jobs and business opportunities are created through expanded economic development. In the states of South Dakota, Minnesota and Iowa, we can point to a number of examples where the lack of water has had a significant negative impact on economic development. A large pork processing plant in Worthington, Minnesota cannot expand because of the lack of water. Ethanol plants have been turned away in northwest Iowa and southwest Minnesota. Proposed dairies have been turned away in southwest Minnesota. A specific example is in the LCRWS partner community of Hull, Iowa, where local leaders worked to establish an emergency connection allowing water to be purchased and then resold to Hull. As a result, a large cheese factory opened in the community in 2008, which employs 135 people and processes 300,000 gallons of milk a day from area dairies. This factory has had a significant impact to the area, and its owners have already announced that they would like to double production and hire 50 additional workers. This example in Hull is one that shows the critical importance of completing the LCRWS project for economic development, while, at the same time, shows the negative impact that the incomplete LCRWS project is having on economic development and job creation. Eleven communities and rural water systems in South Dakota and Iowa began receiving water from the LCRWS in July 2012, and residents and businesses in those areas can now begin to realize the economic benefits of being connected to a rural water system. We also firmly believe that other factors make the LCRWS project unique and deserving of higher levels of funding annually as determined in the Administration’s budget. For instance, the LCRWS partners have demonstrated a strong local commitment by prepaying 99.7 percent of the state and local match required. Also, by serving more than 300,000 people in 20 communities and rural water systems, this project will provide broad public health benefits in addition to economic development opportunities. Thank you for your work to establish criteria to prioritize rural water projects including the Lewis and Clark Regional Water System. The LCRWS project is a priority for the communities we represent, and we look forward to continuing to work closely with you and the Bureau of Reclamation as these criteria are finalized and funds are provided to fulfill the federal government’s outstanding financial commitment to the LCRWS. Sincerely, ###
07.31.2012	Klobuchar, Franken, Peterson, Walz Announce New USDA Actions to Help Minnesota’s Livestock Producers Cope With Drought USDA will move to open up more land for grazing, helping provide relief for high feed costs Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is taking new action to help Minnesota’s livestock producers cope with the ongoing drought. The USDA will begin opening up more land for haying and grazing on Wetland Reserve Program acres, helping provide relief for high feed costs caused by declining crop yields. In addition to increasing opportunities for haying and grazing, the Minnesota Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) will hold an emergency sign up under the Environmental Quality Incentives Program August 6th – August 10th for payments for producers to plant forage crops this fall. Planting additional forage crops could make a difference this fall for livestock producers by helping to increase the supply of animal feed for livestock producers struggling with the drought. "Producers across the country have been impacted by weather conditions out of their control. I’m pleased to see USDA utilize existing farm bill programs to provide Minnesota farmers with much-needed relief,” Peterson said. “I remain committed to ensuring a strong safety net is in place by urging my colleagues in the House to pass a five-year farm bill.” “This severe drought is not just hurting farmers whose crops are withering in the fields. It’s driving up feed prices and putting an increased strain on our livestock, poultry and dairy producers,” Klobuchar said. “This action by the USDA is an important step in providing relief and helping Minnesota producers weather this disaster.” "This is welcome relief for livestock producers who are seeing their feed costs go through the roof, and I'm glad the USDA took this action," said Sen. Franken. "This drought really underscores the importance of passing a long-term Farm Bill – including a strong safety net – so Minnesota's producers know they'll be able to survive a bad year." “Our farmers and ranchers are facing the worst drought in modern history,” said Walz. “This important action by the USDA will work to give farmers and ranchers who own livestock peace of mind during these difficult times. Moving forward, I will continue working with Rep. Peterson to push leadership to pass the new five year Farm Bill in the House.” For agriculture producers interested in expanded haying, grazing or forage planting options they should contact their local NRCS office or to visit the Minnesota NRCS website at www.mn.nrcs.usda.gov
07.06.2012	Sens. Klobuchar, Franken, Reps. Peterson, McCollum, Kline, Cravaack Announce that, at Their Urging, White House Issues Disaster Declaration for Minnesota Communities Devastated by Flooding WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken (D-Minn.) and U.S. Reps. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), John Kline (R-Minn.), and Chip Cravaack (R-Minn.) announced that President Barack Obama approved federal assistance to help Minnesota communities repair public infrastructure damaged by recent flooding. Last week, Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton requested federal assistance in repairing damaged infrastructure, and on Monday, the Minnesota delegation pressed the White House to approve that request. Last week, Governor Dayton announced that damages to public infrastructure totaled over $108 million in 13 Minnesota counties and three tribal nations. Today's federal disaster declaration means that those counties and tribal nations are eligible to apply for funds to repair and replace their public infrastructure. Those costs would be funded at a rate of 75 percent by the federal government.
06.20.2012	It is high time that this settlement is finally distributed and put to work within these communities. The sooner we resolve this issue the sooner these funds can be released. There is a great need on these Reservations for things like schools, health care facilities and infrastructure improvements. In a perfect world I would have liked to see all six Bands be in unanimous agreement on how these funds should be distributed, but we cannot allow the perfect to be the enemy of the good. It is time for everyone to come together and find an agreement that maybe not everyone will love, but everyone can benefit from.-Congressman Collin Peterson On Monday, June 18th, the U.S. House of Representatives passed The Minnesota Chippewa Tribe Judgment Fund Distribution Act (H.R. 1272). Thirteen years ago, the United States Court of Federal Claims awarded and appropriated $20 million to the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe. This settlement appropriation was to compensate the descendants of the Chippewa Indians of Minnesota for the improper valuation of timber and the taking of land under the Nelson Act of 1889. Now, because of the Indian Judgment Fund Act of 1983, Congress must pass legislation detailing how the settlement should be distributed among the six Bands that make up the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe. To see Collin speaking on the U.S. House floor, click here or visit https://www.c-spanvideo.org/appearance/601863648. To view the transcript of his statement, click the PDF below under "Downloads." Downloads » Peterson Floor Statement H R 1272 MN Chippewa Tribe.pdf
06.04.2012	The IRS recently published an alert about phony refund schemes related to military disability compensation. Emails appearing to come from the Defense Finance and Accounting Services are being sent to individuals, including military members, military retirees, and civilian employees. The emails indicate that individuals who are receiving disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs may be able to obtain additional funds from the IRS. Although the email appears to come from DFAS and displays a .mil email address it is actually from a non-government email account. Do not send your personal information or copies of your tax returns and 1099s to the individual listed in the email. The IRS does not initiate contact with taxpayers by email to request personal or financial information. To avoid these email schemes in the future, the IRS recommends you be suspicious of any of the following: Fictitious claims for refunds or rebates based on false statements of entitlement to tax credits Emails from unfamiliar senders asking for personal information Internet solicitations that direct individuals to toll-free numbers and then solicit Social Security numbers or other personal information To learn more about how to react to suspicious e-mails, you may want to visit the following website: https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=155682,00.html
05.22.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and U.S. Representative Collin Peterson today announced that a critical trade office slated for closure will stay open and continue assisting Minnesota businesses exporting their products abroad. Klobuchar, Franken and Peterson pushed to keep open the U.S. Foreign Commercial Service Office in Kazakhstan; closing the office would have hurt local Minnesota businesses that export their products to the country. “Opening new markets for U.S. exports allows Minnesota businesses to sell their products to customers around the world and lift up their local communities as a result,” Klobuchar said. “The Commercial Service Office helps local businesses like Mattracks in Karlstad, Minnesota do business in Kazakhstan and create good jobs at home, so this is good news for local economies.” “Exports bring a lot of money and jobs into communities all over Minnesota, and businesses across the state rely on the U.S. Foreign Commercial Service Office to help export their products.” said Sen. Franken. “I recently had the opportunity to visit one of the businesses that relies on the Commercial Service Office recently, Mattracks, located in Karlstad Minnesota, that develops innovative track vehicles. A recent plan to close the Foreign Commercial Service Office in Kazakhstan would have made it harder for some businesses, like Mattracks, to sell their goods overseas. I’m glad that the Commercial Service listened to the concerns of Mattracks and other businesses and have abandoned their plan to close their operations in Kazakhstan.” "It's good news that the Commercial Service will keep this office open in Kazakhstan to help ensure that businesses like Mattracks in Karlstad will be able to continue their growth in overseas markets," Peterson said. In February Klobuchar, Franken and Peterson wrote a letter to the U.S. Ambassador to Kazakhstan, Kenneth Fairfax, urging him to help prevent the U.S. Foreign Commercial Service Office in the country from closing. The delegation’s staff also met with the Ambassador in March to press the Departments of State and Commerce to keep the office open.
05.17.2012	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) - Rep. Collin Peterson will be hosting a series of farm meetings next week throughout western Minnesota. Peterson will provide an update on the Farm Bill reauthorization process. Monday, May 21 Crookston, 10 a.m. at Youngquist Auditorium on the east side of UMC campus, 2900 University Avenue Hallock, 2 p.m. at the Younggren Farms Shop located four miles north of Hallock on Highway 75 and then one and a half miles west on County Rd 65 Thursday, May 24 Fergus Falls, 10 a.m. at the Otter Tail Power Community Rooms, 216 S Cascade Melrose, 2 p.m. at Melrose City Center, Meeting Room C, 225 1st. St. NE Friday, May 25 Pipestone, 11 a.m. at Pipestone County Courthouse community room 416 Hiawatha Ave. S. (hosted by Congressman Tim Walz) Olivia, 3 p.m. at Max's Grill, 2425 W Lincoln Ave.
04.27.2012	(WASHINGTON DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson applauded the U.S. Department of Labor for withdrawing a controversial proposed rule on children who work in agriculture. "This proposed rule didn't make a lot of sense and seemed to be put together by people who don't understand agriculture," Peterson said. "The decision to withdraw it was the right one, after thousands of farm families responded with concerns, after several Democrats and I signed on to a bill to block it, and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack worked to ensure that farmers' voices were heard. I'm glad that the department will work with farm organizations, like 4-H and FFA, to develop stronger education programs that will help keep our kids safe on the farm, and will help grow the next generation of young farmers."
04.05.2012	(WASHINGTON DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson announced that USDA Rural Development has approved a loan of $13.5 million for construction of a new critical access hospital in Warren. "Critical access hospitals are a lifeline in our smaller rural communities," Peterson said. "I want to commend the leaders in Warren who understand the importance of local access to health care and worked hard to get this project off the ground." Kevin Smith, CEO of North Valley Health Center, said "This is something that has been in the works for five years and this news is very exciting for us. This will enhance health care services into the future and allow us to better meet the health needs of our area. This project also comes with help from the Otto Bremer Foundation and the generosity of the citizens of the communities we serve.” This USDA Rural Development Community Facility Direct Loan term is for 40 years at 3.375 percent. The total project cost is estimated at $14.75 million. Minnesota Rural Development Director Colleen Landkamer said, " “In addition to access to essential health care services, this project means jobs and economic development in Warren and the surrounding region. Projects like this help build stronger and more sustainable communities in rural Minnesota.” Critical Access Hospitals must be licensed and operating as a non-profit, participating in the Medicare program, and be located in a rural area.
04.04.2012	(WASHINGTON DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson recently signed on to a letter to Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi asking that any postal reform legislation consider the impacts of eliminating rural post offices. "We understand the devastating impact that a post office closure can have on a small community," Peterson said. "It doesn't make a lot of sense to shut down rural post offices without first considering a new business model that incorporates many other reforms." Peterson, along with 103 other House members signed the letter, which can be accessed below or by contacting 202-225-2165. Downloads » 3-27-2012 post office letter.pdf
03.29.2012	(WASHINGTON DC) – U.S. Reps. Collin Peterson and John Kline testified Thursday in the House Natural Resources Committee hearing on the “Cormorant Management and Natural Resources Protection Act” (H.R. 3074), bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by Peterson which would cut through red tape and allow states to manage menacing overpopulations of cormorants. Peterson, who was asked to testify at the hearing to describe the problems double-crested cormorants cause in Minnesota said, "I have sponsored or co-sponsored legislation to help manage excessive cormorant populations since my first term in office in 1991, and have been trying for years to work with people on both sides of the issue to come up with a management solution that will solve this problem. I believe Rep. Kline and I have a good bill here that makes a lot of sense." The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has primary responsibility for cormorant management at the federal level. H.R. 3074 would require a state that wishes to control cormorant populations to submit a management plan to the Secretary of the Interior. This plan must be in accordance with obligations under United States treaties and federal law and be reviewed every five years. Excerpts of Peterson's written testimony follows: Cormorants first received federal protection back in the 1970s, following a drastic reduction in population from DDT. Since then, the populations have exploded and recovered to even greater numbers than prior to the 1970s. Cormorants have no natural predators, so the increase in population has gone unchecked for 40 years. Flocks of thousands of cormorants will fly into an area and completely wipe out the fish in a lake or river, devastating open water game fish populations. Each bird consumes about 1-2 pounds of fish per day, so you can imagine the effects that a large cormorant population has on the fish in a lake. In 2000, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, in cooperation with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) Wildlife Services, held ten public scoping meetings across the United States to seek input about the issue of the cormorant for the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) they were preparing. I requested an additional meeting in my district so that folks along Lake of the Woods could participate in the process. My constituents who spoke at that meeting voiced concern about the impact of double-crested cormorants on local walleye and perch populations, as well as the economic impact on area resorts, charter boats, and recreational fishing. The problems double-crested cormorants are causing in Minnesota go beyond that. I have received detailed letters from folks such as the Meeker County Area Lakes Association. This association represents hundreds of lakeshore owners, fishers, and local businesses that are very concerned about the adverse effect the cormorant infestation on Pigeon Lake is having on nearby lakes. In their letter, they noted that it was critical to be able to limit the number of these birds for numerous reasons, including: the devastating effect on fisheries and aquaculture; damage to the wildlife and native vegetation on both public and private property; the potential to displace species such as herons and gulls; and the risk to human health and safety from the vast amounts of guano produced by thousands of cormorants. In recent years, I have also heard from tribal leaders who have expressed concern that the cormorants may be affecting fish populations in areas such as Leech Lake. They pointed to the negative implications this has for the tourism industry, which is increasingly important in their area of the state. A study conducted at Leech Lake in 2005 to analyze the cormorant issue also noted the risks of aircraft collisions with cormorants on or near local airports are cause for concern. I hear these same concerns and many more repeated by constituents across my district. In 2003, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service released a Final Rule that allowed for more flexibility in the control of double-crested cormorants. The aquaculture depredation order was expanded so that USDA Wildlife Services, as well as State wildlife agencies and Tribes, could conduct cormorant control in 24 states, including Minnesota. This finally allowed us to manage these birds in a logical way when they threatened our lakes and other public resources. This legislation, H.R.3074, goes further than the 2003 rule. By putting this rule into statute, states will have better authority to implement cormorant management programs. I'm happy to work with Rep. Kline in addressing the concerns of those impacted by these birds. ###
03.02.2012	(WASHINGTON, DC) -- Representatives Collin Peterson and Chip Cravaack testified Thursday before the Natural Resources Committee Subcommittee on Indian and Alaska Native Affairs, on H.R. 1272, the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe Judgment Fund Distribution Act. "My position has always been that Congress should not take an active role in these types of issues. I believe that all of the Bands should come to an agreement on how to distribute this award and only then should Congress get involved," Peterson said. "Unfortunately, after thirteen years the Bands are still unable to agree. Although a unanimous resolution has not yet been achieved, I think H.R 1272 is the best and most realistic compromise to release this long overdue settlement to people that really need it, the members of the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe. " Peterson added, "I want to thank Mr. Cravaack for his willingness to get together and talk about this issue so we could finally come to a resolution supporting the agreement made on behalf of the majority of these tribes." “I represent five of the six bands that constitute the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe. Their representatives have all made it very clear to me that it is more than past-time to bring resolution to this long-standing issue. I agree,” said Rep. Cravaack. “Furthermore, Representative Petersen and I agree that H.R. 1272 is the solution that must be enacted in order to fulfill the U.S. government’s legal obligations, conclude its litigation with the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe, and release the over $28 million in settlement funds in an expeditious manner. I am hopeful that the House will quickly move to vote on this important bill and bring resolution to this long-standing issue." Thirteen years ago, the United States Court of Federal Claims awarded and appropriated $20 million to the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe. This settlement appropriation was to compensate the descendants of the Chippewa Indians of Minnesota for the improper valuation of timber and the taking of land under the Nelson Act of 1889. Now, because of the Indian Judgment Fund Act of 1983, Congress must pass legislation detailing how the settlement should be distributed among the six Bands that make up the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe. Downloads » 3.1.2012 Peterson testimony-MN Chippewa.pdf
01.27.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representative Collin Peterson today announced that the Department of Transportation (DOT) has selected SkyWest Airlines, Inc. to provide Essential Air Service to Bemidji. In 2011, Delta Airlines announced they would suspend service to Bemidji as well as other greater Minnesota airports. Klobuchar, Franken and Peterson worked closely with Bemidji officials to ensure continued air service to the community. “Air service to Bemidji helps residents travel efficiently and allows local companies to do business across the country and world,” Klobuchar said. “I worked closely with the Bemidji community to ensure that this vital air service continues, and today’s announcement is good news for families and the local economy.” “Maintaining air service in Bemidji keeps jobs and money coming into the city and surrounding region,” said Sen. Franken. “I’m pleased that the hard work we’ve done together has paid off and that people in the Bemidji area will still be able to benefit from all the good this airport does for the community.” "I commend the work of the local officials who worked to make sure another carrier was found," Peterson said. "It's clear that continuing Essential Air Service in Bemidji helps to create and maintain jobs in the region, and area businesses and individuals who rely on it will back that up emphatically." "Bemidji strongly supports SkyWest's air service to our community,” said Bemidji Regional Airport Manager Harold Van Leeuwen. “Reliable air service is critical for the economic development of the region, helping attract new businesses and investment in the local economy." In July, Klobuchar wrote a letter to Delta Airlines urging the company to ensure continued service to greater Minnesota airports by either reconsidering its plans to reduce service or finding alternative carriers to replace Delta. Klobuchar serves on the U.S. Senate Commerce Committee and Subcommittee on Aviation, which has jurisdiction over the nation’s aviation system and all U.S. airline carriers. Also in July, Sen. Franken wrote to Delta Airlines and pushed Senate negotiators to fully fund community air service to communities all over Minnesota, saying that air service is critical to the efforts of small communities to create jobs and economic development.
01.25.2012	Congressman Collin Peterson announced that a deadline is nearing for applications for ring dike financial assistance under USDA's NRCS Ag Water Enhancement Program (AWEP). While the closing date hasn’t yet been set, interested parties and anyone who missed the deadline last year should contact their local NRCS office regarding current application. The program is still limited to the Red River Basin. In 2010, Peterson announced that the Red River Basin Commission has been awarded $1.38 million in Agricultural Water Enhancement Program funds to provide financial and technical assistance to farmers and ranchers to conserve ground and surface water and improve water quality on agricultural lands. “We created AWEP in the 2008 Farm Bill to encourage these locally-led partnerships with USDA to improve water quality and quantity, and it is good to see these policies in action in the Red River Valley,” Peterson said. “Those landowners who still want to address important water quality concerns related to flooding and wind erosion in western Minnesota should contact their watershed district office or NRCS.” AWEP is implemented through the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service as part of the Environmental Quality Incentives Program. The RRBC’s proposal will target the following strategies: 1) Sugar Beet Cover Crop Strategy, 2) Beach Ridge Erosion Reduction Strategy, 3) Restricted Flow Sediment Pool Strategy, 4) Water Flow Retardation Strategy, 5) Stream Bank Erosion Reduction Strategy, 6) Other Activities Strategy, and 7) Basin Coordination Strategy. ###
12.08.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson has signed onto H.R. 3379, the Regional Haze Federalism Act, to address issues with the Environmental Protection Agency’s Regional Haze rule. The EPA rule calls for state and federal agencies to work together to improve visibility and reduce pollution in 156 national parks and wilderness areas. “EPA has not shown us that their regional haze requirements will improve visibility in our region, and will instead dramatically increase the cost of electricity to consumers in Minnesota and North Dakota,” Peterson said. “It’s clear that this rule is just another overstep by the EPA.” H.R. 3379 would allow states to revoke an existing Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) and propose a State Implementation Plan (SIP) to address visibility and pollution issues. If states choose to accept the FIP, they will have 5 years to come into compliance.
12.01.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson and Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway Administration has approved construction of a partial interchange near the new I-94 interchange. “Throughout the process of the 34th St. interchange project, Moorhead was relying on the retention and reconstruction of the Main Avenue ramp, and we’re glad this was finally confirmed,” Peterson said. “This news means that businesses in the area can count on additional access to and from I-94.” “The approval of this new interchange is a significant step in helping relieve congestion, improve safety, and support local businesses,” Klobuchar said. “I will continue to work to strengthen Minnesota’s infrastructure and ensure it is among the safest and most reliable in the country.” “I-94 is an important part of Moorhead’s road system, because it’s often the fastest way to get around town or around the Red River Valley,” said. Sen. Franken. “The area surrounding this interchange supports a thriving business community and employers, workers, and customers need to be able to access those businesses from the interstate. I’m pleased that, going forward, the people of Moorhead will be able to count on better access to and from I-94.” In October of this year, Peterson, Klobuchar and Franken, wrote a letter to the Federal Highway Administrator, offering support for retention and reconstruction of the Southeast Main Ave/I-94 interchange ramps in Moorhead. The congressional delegation addressed the concerns of Moorhead City officials and businesses located near the interchange and asked for DOT to offer a final determination in the matter. The approval letter stated that, “We have approved the Minnesota Department of Transportation’s request to construct a partial interchange near the new I-94 interchange. The interchange will provide safe, efficient access to I-94.” Downloads » I-94 moorhead delegation letter.pdf
11.30.2011	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representative Collin Peterson today announced that the Department of Transportation (DOT) has selected Great Lakes Aviation, Ltd. to provide Essential Air Service to Thief River Falls. Earlier this year, Delta Airlines announced they would suspend service to Thief River Falls as well as other greater Minnesota airports. Klobuchar, Franken and Peterson worked closely with Thief River Falls officials to ensure continued air service to the community. “Air service to Thief River Falls has helped families connect with one another and enabled local businesses to find opportunities and partners in other parts of the country, and even internationally,” Klobuchar said. “I worked closely with the airport and community to ensure that this service would continue, and today’s announcement is a step forward to ensure that Minnesotans have safe and reliable air service. I will continue to work with greater Minnesota airports to address their concerns and fight for this essential service.” "Minnesota's small businesses are the key to job creation in this state, but they need access to reliable air service in order to create the jobs our country needs to grow and get back on its feet," said Sen. Franken. "Regional airports like the one in Thief River Falls are critical to our efforts to attract and create jobs because they connect Minnesotans to the rest of the state and the rest of the world. I'm pleased that Great Lakes Aviation has been selected to provide this crucial service to Thief River Falls and the surrounding region." “It’s good news that the Thief River Falls region will continue to have air service for the people and businesses who rely on it,” Peterson said. “Essential Air Service is critical to many parts of rural America, especially in these tough economic times.” In July, Klobuchar wrote a letter to Delta Airlines urging the company to ensure continued service to greater Minnesota airports by either reconsidering its plans to reduce service or finding alternative carriers to replace Delta. Klobuchar serves on the U.S. Senate Commerce Committee and Subcommittee on Aviation, which has jurisdiction over the nation’s aviation system and all U.S. airline carriers. Also in July, Sen. Franken wrote to Delta Airlines and pushed Senate negotiators to fully fund community air service to communities all over Minnesota, saying that air service is critical to the efforts of small communities to create jobs and economic development.
11.07.2011	As I travel throughout western Minnesota, I often have the opportunity to sit down with veterans who have served our country, and I’m always honored to hear their stories and garner some wisdom from them. This Veterans Day, we renew our commitment to keep our promises to our nation’s 23 million veterans, including the 51,000 veterans here in Minnesota’s 7th Congressional District. These veterans and their families have earned our respect for their sacrifice and service. In Congress, we are focused on taking major steps to help our men and women in uniform when they come home. Over the last four years, we: Enacted the new Post 9-11 GI Bill to restore the promise of a full, four-year college education, that has already allowed over 600,000 veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars to afford college, just like after World War II, along with tax incentives for hiring to expand job opportunities for returning soldiers. Strengthened health care for more than 5 million veterans, with a historic commitment -- including the largest single increase in the history of the VA -- for more doctors and nurses, better access for rural veterans, and expanded efforts to treat the signature injuries of the war, PTSD and Traumatic Brain Injury, while enacting a law to guarantee timely and predictable funding for veterans’ health care and to address the health care needs of our nearly 2 million female veterans. Provided troops and veterans the benefits they have earned and resources they need, giving troops a pay raise, restoring military readiness, providing the best training and equipment for the men and women serving in our Armed Forces, taking steps to reduce the backlog and wait for veterans trying to access their earned benefits, providing special payments for service members and veterans who were forced to serve under stop-loss orders since 2001, and making headway in ending the Disabled Veterans Tax and the Military Families’ Tax. Strengthened support for military families, building more military child care centers and better military family housing, and enacting landmark legislation to provide much-needed support for family members and other caregivers for wounded veterans. I believe we all have a responsibility to help serve those who have served us. I am proud to be part of the effort to move our state and nation toward the goal of improving services for our veterans. Join me in thanking our veterans and their families for the sacrifices they have made in the name of freedom. The thanks of a grateful nation should go out to all veterans who left the comfort of their homes and loved ones and put their lives on hold. On this Veterans Day, let us all take a moment to provide the support and gratitude that they greatly deserve.
11.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar and U.S. Representative Collin Peterson issued the following statement urging American Crystal Sugar and workers to continue to work towards an agreement: “Families and communities across the Red River Valley have felt the impact of this lockout. We continue to urge both Crystal Sugar management and workers to come together at the negotiating table to work out an agreement that allows workers to return to their jobs as soon as possible. American Crystal and these jobs are very important to the region.”
11.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – In light of efforts by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to plan and implement Universal Service Fund (USF) reforms, Representatives Collin Peterson (D-Minn) and Don Young (R-AK) have co-founded the House Universal Service Fund Caucus. The main goal of the bipartisan USF Caucus will be to provide Members of Congress and their staff with the resources to better understand the complex and rapidly changing world of 21st century communications services. By examining the USF’s four programs, High Cost, Low-Income, Rural Healthcare, and Schools and Libraries (E-Rate); the Caucus will examine the challenges of constructing the communications infrastructure for the future. “The Universal Service Fund has a history of connecting rural America to communications services, and my hope is that this caucus will help ensure that rural voices aren’t left out of the process as the FCC moves forward to implement reforms,” Peterson said. “Rural America has the same communications needs as their urban counterparts. However, in order to provide fast and reliable service, the government needs to assist providers to help defray costs.” “I am both proud and honored to be joined by my good friend Congressman Peterson in forming the Universal Service Fund Caucus,” said Rep. Young. “Rural or urban, every American ought to have access to the same level and cost of communication services as their fellow Americans. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that as the FCC moves forward with reforms, we continue to hold true to this ‘universal service’ concept.” The idea behind all Americans having access to affordable communications services, commonly called the "universal service concept,” started in 1934 with the Communications Act. Ever since, universal service has been a basic principle of communications policy at the federal level, and Congress has historically played an active role in preserving this. In 1996, Congress passed the Telecommunications Act of 1996 which not only codified the universal service concept, but also formed, in 1997, the federal Universal Service Fund (USF or Fund) to meet the universal service objectives and principles contained in the 1996 act.
10.27.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Collin Peterson and Tim Walz today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has designated agriculture disaster areas for several Minnesota counties impacted by multiple natural disasters in the 2011 crop year. “The extreme weather in western Minnesota has caused severe damage to crops and taken a heavy toll on rural communities,” Klobuchar said. “With these designations, farmers are eligible to access the permanent disaster program and emergency financing they need to get through this difficult period and continue their vital role in Minnesota’s economy.” “The devastating weather conditions that western Minnesota experienced over the last year have created extensive hardship for many of our producers,” said Senator Franken. “I’m relieved that the USDA has designated our hardest hit counties as agricultural disaster areas because it gives our farmers somewhere to turn to for help. I urge producers in these counties to speak with their local FSA offices to see if they qualify for this assistance.” “Farmers take on a big risk every season when they plant their crop,” Peterson said. “Sometimes Mother Nature throws a curve ball, and this disaster assistance is important to helping our producers get through these weather problems.” “In order to supply the safest, most abundant food supply in the world, our farmers take on considerable risk,” said Walz. “While we cannot control the weather, we can make sure our producers can recover when they are hit by disaster and continue to be a vital part of our local economies.” These Minnesota counties are designated as natural disaster areas due to combined effects of excessive rain, excessive heat, high winds, tornadoes and an early fall frost occurring during the period of April 1, 2011 and Sept. 15, 2011. The counties included in this disaster are: Big Stone, Chippewa, Grant, Lac Qui Parle, Redwood, Renville, Sibley, Stearns, Stevens, Traverse and Wright. Benefits are also available for the contiguous counties of Anoka, Benton, Brown, Carver, Cottonwood, Douglas, Hennepin, Kandiyohi, Le Sueur, Lyon, McLeod, Meeker, Morrison, Murray, Nicollet, Otter Tail, Pope, Scott, Sherburne, Swift, Todd, Wilkin and Yellow Medicine. Producers in both primary and contiguous counties are eligible to be considered for Farm Service Agency (FSA) emergency loans (EM) and the Supplemental Revenue Assistance Program (SURE) which was approved as part of the Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008 and was implemented beginning on January 4, 2010. FSA will consider each application on its own merit by taking into account the extent of losses, security available, and repayment ability. Local FSA offices can provide affected farmers and ranchers with additional information. USDA also has issued a disaster designation for Kittson, Marshall, Norman, Polk, Traverse, and Wilkin Counties as a result of spring snowstorms, frosts, and freezes in late spring and early fall; excessive rain, flooding, ground saturation, and landslides, high winds, hail and tornadoes; periods of unseasonable cool spring temperatures and excessive summer heat, and weather-related insects and diseases that occurred during the period of January 1, 2011 and continuing. ###
09.29.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representative Collin Peterson today announced over $4.7 million for targeted job training and workforce development at Northland Community and Technical College (NCTC) in Thief River Falls. Specifically, the grants will support a new degree in Imagery Analysis that will compliment NCTC’s existing Unmanned Aircraft Systems Maintenance Technician program. The grants are part of the Department of Labor’s Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training (TAACCCT) initiative. “I’m proud of the efforts of all those who have worked hard to create the UAS maintenance tech program, and now the Imagery Analysis program,” Peterson said. “With the spinoff companies created by the UAS industry, Northland Community and Technical College is leading the way for students who will graduate with work in an industry that is growing rapidly and creating jobs.” “Community colleges play a critical role in ensuring our country has a highly-skilled workforce ready for the jobs of tomorrow,” Klobuchar said. “Support like this will help ensure that all Minnesotans have access to the education and job training they need to succeed in a global economy, creating more opportunities in the unmanned aircraft systems industry and other growing fields.” "Right now, too many Minnesotans are out of work while good-paying jobs across the state go unfilled because applicants lack the necessary skills,” said Sen. Franken. "This funding will give more Minnesotans the training they need to succeed in those jobs now and in the future." The TAACCCT initiative is designed to support partnerships between community colleges and employers to assist dislocated workers who are changing careers. The program is designed to equip workers with specific skill sets that are in demand by critical industries such as advanced manufacturing, health care, and science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. In addition, the program is designed to collect data on student outcomes, building knowledge about which strategies are most effective at placing graduates in high quality jobs.
09.22.2011	WASHINGTON – House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX), and U.S. Representative Collin Peterson (D-MN), and U.S. Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Mark Pryor (D-AR), today unveiled their plan to significantly reform the federal regulatory process and reduce unnecessary burdens on employers. The Regulatory Accountability Act of 2011 reforms the current rulemaking process to lower the costs and improve the quality of new regulations. This bipartisan, bicameral effort is the first of its kind in more than a decade to reform and minimize regulations that stifle economic growth. “While it is difficult to enact a new law, it’s even harder to get a regulation written correctly,” said Peterson. “In many cases, interest groups try to use regulation to interpret the law in their best interest, instead of following the intent of the law. By bringing transparency and accountability to the regulatory process, the American people will be allowed to have a voice in these policy decisions.” “The current regulatory system has become a barrier to economic growth and job creation,” said Chairman Smith. “Federal regulations cost our economy $1.75 trillion each year. Employers are rightly concerned about the costs these regulations will impose on their businesses. So they stop hiring, stop spending and start saving for a bill from Big Brother. But rather than burdening businesses with more regulations, we need to free up employers so they can create jobs for American workers. The Regulatory Accountability Act does just that. It places permanent restrictions on regulatory agencies and restores accountability by requiring openness and transparency in the regulatory process. This is a bipartisan, bicameral bill that both parties, both houses of Congress and the President should support.” “One of the most frequent concerns I hear from employers throughout Ohio is that mounting regulatory burdens increase the costs of doing business, making it harder to create jobs,” said Portman. “This common-sense, bipartisan legislation will cut back on unnecessary red tape by building economic reality-checks into every step of the regulatory process. It’s an immediate step Washington can take to help unleash the forces of job creation again in America.” “We need a 21st Century regulatory system that promotes growth, innovation and job creation. By ensuring all parties have a seat at the table at the beginning of the process, this legislation prevents overly burdensome and drawn-out regulations from interfering with our nation’s prosperity,” Pryor said. For decades, presidents of both parties have issued executive orders to produce more sensible, less burdensome regulations. This bill makes the principles of those bipartisan directives permanent, enforceable, and applicable to all regulatory agencies, including independent agencies. The Act also requires agencies to tailor new regulations to impose the least cost necessary to achieve policy goals set out by Congress. Finally, the bill requires agencies to hold formal hearings to test the assumptions and evidence on which the costliest new rules are based. Downloads » APA Bill Summary
09.19.2011	MINNESOTA [09/16/11]– Today, U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representative Collin Petersonannounced that power customers in Northern Minnesota will soon receive more reliable electric service due to a $6.1 million loanfrom the U.S. Department of Agriculture to North Star Electric Cooperative in Baudette. "Every American should have access to reliable and affordable electrical service," said Sen. Klobuchar. "Support such as this will help North Star expand its operations and ensure that the lights will remain on in countless farms, households, and small businesses." "All over Minnesota, electric cooperatives like North Star bring affordable service to people who would otherwise have little or no access to electricity," said Sen. Franken. "These federal funds will allow North Star Electric Co-op to expand its service and make it more reliable for the thousands of Minnesotans who depend on it." "These upgrades to our rural electric infrastructure will have a positive impact on rural residents," said Rep. Peterson. "It’s important to make these critical improvements to rural infrastructure and technology to keep our rural areas competitive." The resources will help build 46 miles of new electric distribution line and upgrade 62 miles of existing distribution line, as well as make other system improvements. North Star Electric Co-op serves thousands of members in Lake of the Woods, Roseau, Koochiching, and Saint Louis Counties and makes up a portion of the Touchstone Energy cooperative network, which serves over 40 million people in the United States. Sen. Klobuchar has long supported efforts to help increase access to electricity in rural communities. This June, Sen. Klobuchar, along with Sen. Tim Johnson (D-S.Dak.), introduced the Renewable Integration Credit to help promote wind and solar energy production in rural electric cooperatives and municipal utilities. Sen. Franken was named to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee in January and since then he and his staff haveconducted a Renewable Energy Listening Tour in communities across the state to learn from business leaders and industry advocates about how to harness thepotential renewable energy has for job creation across the state. This fall, Sen. Franken plans to hold an Energy Summit in Minnesota, which will include representatives from the U.S. Department of Energy and energy interests from across the state. Peterson, who is Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Committee, has been a leader on working to improve the quality of life in rural communities and supportive of the work of rural electric cooperatives to expand and improve their services.
09.19.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.[09/16/11]–Today, U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken (D-Minn.) and U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) announced nearly $3 million for infrastructure improvements at northwestern Minnesota airports. The funding comes from the Federal Aviation Administration through the Department of Transportation. The upgrades will improve the airports in Baudette, Roseau, Winsted, Litchfield, Fosston, Ortonville, Staples. “Strengthening our airport infrastructure helps strengthen the economy in communities throughout Northwestern Minnesota,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This support will help ensure that Minnesota’s airports continue to be among the safest and most reliable in the nation.” "At a time when unemployment is devastating communities all over northern Minnesota, investment in local airports can bring jobs and income into the region," said Sen. Franken. "These federal funds will allow these airports to continue to connect Minnesotans to the rest of the world and to provide the safe, reliable air service Minnesotans expect and deserve." “Maintaining and improving the condition of our rural airports is important,” said Rep. Peterson. “These communities work hard to attract and maintain business and tourism, and this work can be more difficult without a good airport.” Details for funding are below: Baudette International Airport will receive $1,283,596 to extend the taxiway and support other improvements. Roseau Municipal Airport will receive $488,679 to improve the taxiway and the hangar area, as well as other infrastructure improvements. Winsted Municipal Airport will receive $457,000 to construct an arrival/departure building, improve the parking lot, and other improvements to overall infrastructure. Litchfield Municipal Airport will receive $173,850 to improve the access road, parking lot, and runway. Fosston Municipal Airport will receive $132,208 to improve the taxiway as well as other infrastructure improvements. Ortonville Municipal Airport will receive $119,907 to construct a fuel facility that will help the airport become more self-sufficient. Staples Municipal Airport will receive $25,000 to improve overall infrastructure.
09.06.2011	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) – Congressman Collin Peterson announced that the City of Perham has been awarded $2.4 million from the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration for investment in the city’s wastewater treatment system. “Perham has a strong industrial economy, and this EDA investment will help to keep it healthy ,” Peterson said. “With Perham’s businesses exporting to 21 different countries, the city has a large impact on the regional and national economy.” Mayor Tim Meehl indicated that this award will cover around half the cost of what the city budgeted. “We had to do this project because we’ve outgrown our sewer system. This will help save our taxpayers a lot of money by keeping down the rate increases,” he said. Chuck Johnson, Perham’s Economic Development Director says the funds will be used to replace the water treatment aeration system which is inefficient and causes a “stink” problem in the city. The funds also will be used to construct a 20 acre treatment pond adjacent to the current one. “The industrial activity in this town has a tremendous impact on the water and sewage system,” Johnson said. “We are running close to or at capacity and have to address this so we don’t choke off industrial or residential growth.” The announcement from EDA indicated that they anticipate at least 300 jobs to be created with this expansion.
08.17.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representative Collin Peterson today announced nearly $1.5 million for infrastructure improvements at Northwestern Minnesota airports. The funding comes from the Federal Aviation Administration through the Department of Transportation. “Strengthening our airport infrastructure promotes economic development to communities throughout Minnesota,” Klobuchar said. “This support will help ensure that our airports continue to be among the safest and most reliable in the country.” “Having a reliable, modern airport is vitally important to the economic well-being of northwestern Minnesota’s communities,” Franken said. “This funding will help improve the infrastructure at airports all over the northwestand ensure that they continue to play an important role in creating jobs and economic development in the surrounding region.” “These airports are an important part of the economic infrastructure for rural communities,” Peterson said. “This kind of investment in transportation is key to maintaining and improving our rural economic health.” Details for funding are below: • Moorhead Municipal Airport will receive $478,394 to help support construction of a new hangar building, allowing the airport to be more self-sustaining. • Hutchinson Municipal Airport will receive $144,000 to help improve overall infrastructure. • Morris Municipal Airport will receive $128,250 to support the construction of a taxiway. • Warroad International Memorial will receive $386,014 to support improvements to overall infrastructure. • Hawley Municipal Airport will receive $129,333 to help support improvements to infrastructure. • Myers Field will receive $218,025 to help in the acquisition of snow removal equipment, allowing the airport to remain open during the winter months.
08.01.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Collin C. Peterson announced that the City of Kennedy has been selected to receive over $90,000 from USDA Rural Development to purchase a used cargo truck that will be retrofitted for used by the local fire department. The funds come in the form of a $59,000 loan and a $31,000 grant. “These awards are crucial to our smaller communities that provide emergency services,” Peterson said. “The fire department and their dedicated volunteers who cover the Kennedy area are a vital part of public safety.” Once retrofitted, the truck will be used to store and transport firefighting equipment. The new truck gives local emergency responders another tool as they work to protect area residents and property. “Rural firefighters face many unique challenges and we need to make sure they are equipped to face those challenges,” said Colleen Landkamer, USDA Rural Development State Director. “Emergency responders in Kennedy provide a valuable service and this new truck will help them perform their duties at an even higher level.” Rural Development also finances infrastructure, housing, community facilities, business development and renewable energy projects in rural areas. Since 2009, Rural Development has invested about $3 billion throughout Minnesota. To learn more about Rural Development programs, visit www.rurdev.usda.gov/mn, or call the local office in Detroit Lakes at (218) 674-4142, ext. 4.
08.01.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Collin C. Peterson announced that the City of Miltona will receive nearly $2 million from USDA Rural Development to improve the city’s wastewater treatment infrastructure. The funding comes in the form of a $1,396,000 loan and a $570,000 grant. “These funds are critical to meeting Miltona’s need for wastewater treatment improvements,” Peterson said. The project will expand the city’s existing wastewater treatment lagoons, replace 3,700 feet of sewer line and repair 2,900 feet of sewer line. These improvements will resolve the city’s problems with inflow and infiltration and a lack of capacity at the wastewater lagoons. “Investing in infrastructure creates jobs during the construction period and helps build a foundation of future economic development and job growth,” said Colleen Landkamer, USDA Rural Development State Director. “The City of Miltona is making an investment in its future with this project.” Rural Development has invested about $200 million throughout Minnesota since 2009 to improve rural wastewater and drinking water treatment infrastructure. Rural Development also finances housing, community facilities, business development and renewable energy projects in rural areas. To learn more about Rural Development programs, visit www.rurdev.usda.gov/mn, or call the local office in Alexandria at (320) 763-3191, ext. 4.
08.01.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Collin C. Peterson announced that the City of Hector has been selected to receive a $75,000 loan and a $34,000 grant from USDA Rural Development to purchase grass fire-fighting and jaws of life extraction equipment. “These awards are crucial to our smaller communities that provide emergency services,” Peterson said. “The fire department and their dedicated volunteers who cover the Hector area are a vital part of public safety.” The new equipment gives local emergency responders another tool as they work to protect area residents and property. “Rural firefighters face many unique challenges and we need to make sure they are equipped to face those challenges,” said Colleen Landkamer, USDA Rural Development State Director. “Emergency responders in Hector provide a valuable service and this new equipment will help them perform their duties at an even higher level.” Rural Development also finances infrastructure, housing, community facilities, business development and renewable energy projects in rural areas. Since 2009, Rural Development has invested about $3 billion throughout Minnesota. To learn more about Rural Development programs, visit www.rurdev.usda.gov/mn, or call the local office in Willmar at (320) 235-3540, ext. 4.
07.25.2011	Congressman Collin C. Peterson, a member of the Congressional Friends of Norway Caucus, issued this statement about the bomb attack and shootings in Norway: “Hearing news of the tragedy in Norway was heartbreaking to me and to the many Norwegian Americans who live in western Minnesota. I’m deeply saddened by the injuries and loss of life resulting from this senseless act of violence, and my prayers are with victims and families of the bomb attack. As the people of Norway mourn their losses, the people of Minnesota’s Seventh District stand strong with them.” ###
07.14.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. [07/14/11]—U.S. Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) and U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) yesterday pressed the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) not to require the installation of expensive and unproven pollution control measures at North Dakota power plants because the cost of the technology would likely be passed on to western Minnesota families, farmers, and businesses who get their electricity from those plants. The two lawmakers, in a letter to a top EPA official, said it is unclear if there are any health and environmental benefits of installing the “selective catalytic reactor” (SCR) technology at the North Dakota plants, because the technology has not been proven to work at plants that burn North Dakota lignite coal. The installation costs – as much as $500 million at just one North Dakota plant – would be passed on to Minnesota utilities who purchase electricity from North Dakota and ultimately on to their customers. “We support the goal of the Clean Air Act to protect human health and the environment. It makes sense to invest in pollution control technologies when there is proven public health or environmental benefit,” Sen. Franken and Rep. Peterson wrote to EPA Deputy Administrator Robert Perciasepe. “However, we have not seen assurances from EPA that SCR technology is effective in reducing pollution from power plants burning North Dakota lignite coal.” The EPA is currently considering instating a requirement that certain North Dakota power plants install SCR technology to comply with Clean Air Act regional haze and Best Available Control Technology (BACT) programs.The full text of Sen. Franken and Rep. Peterson’s letter to EPA Deputy Administrator Robert Perciasepe can be found here.
05.25.2011	This spring, communities across the state are holding deployment ceremonies. The Minnesota National Guard is mobilizing 2,400 troops for a one-year deployment to support Operation New Dawn (Iraq). May they all come home safely. On this Memorial Day, we continue to be engaged in hostilities in Iraq and Afghanistan, and men and women will pay the ultimate price while wearing the uniform of our nation. Let us honor the memory of the 4,400 Americans who have died in Iraq, and the more than 1,500 who have died in Afghanistan. We also honor the sacrifices of our wounded; 32,000 U.S. troops in Iraq and 11,400 in Afghanistan. Americans come together to remember those who have sacrificed their lives on behalf of our country in the name of freedom and democracy. The debt owed to them is immeasurable. Their sacrifices, and those of their military families, are freedom’s foundation. Without the brave efforts of all the soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines and Coast Guardsmen and their families, our country would not live so freely. In the 35 counties that make up Minnesota’s Seventh District, we’re home to around 58,000 veterans who have served in every conflict this country has been in. So this Memorial Day on this the most sacred day, we pause to reflect on what has been given and sacrificed. Let us never forget.
05.11.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Minnesota Congressmen Collin Peterson and John Kline were named the “Top Guns” of their respective parties at the Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation’s annual shoot-out Tuesday. Every year, members of Congress who attend the shoot-out spend an afternoon in a friendly competition shooting trap, skeet, and sporting clays. “The shoot-out is a great event that creates camaraderie between members on both sides of the aisle that fosters effective bipartisan collaboration on issues of importance to the sporting community,” said Kline, an avid hunter and fly-fisherman. “I am pleased to work with other members of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus to promote conservation efforts and preserve our critical habitat.” In the past five years, Congressman Kline has won the Republican “Top Gun” award four times; Congressman Peterson has won his party’s award three times. “I have to say, Congressman Kline and I have represented Minnesota pretty well at the shoot-out over the years,” Peterson said. “The shoot-out is always a good time to get outside with my colleagues, share a few stories, and talk about how important the sportsmen’s communities are in our districts.” The Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation is an organization that seeks to provide access and a voice for sportsmen in Washington. Peterson and Kline are members of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, the Foundation’s ally in Congress. Other members of Minnesota’s congressional delegation belonging to the caucus include Sen. Al Franken, Congresswoman Michele Bachmann, and Congressmen Tim Walz, Erik Paulsen, and Chip Cravaack.
05.05.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson issued the following statement on the death of Osama bin Laden: “After nearly 10 years, the perseverance of our military and intelligence communities has brought justice to Osama bin Laden. I’m grateful to all those men and women in uniform who have sacrificed so much to bring more security to our country in these tough times. We also must remain vigilant against the threat of terrorism still faced by so many around the world.”
04.20.2011	WASHINGTON, - Congressman Collin Peterson and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack today announced that up to $10 million will be available to help eligible landowners in three states reduce flooding, restore wetlands and enhance wildlife habitat in the Red River Valley Watershed through the USDA's Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP). "I am pleased that USDA's Natural Resources Conservation Service is helping us move forward with this retention work in the Red River Valley," Peterson said. "This is a credit to the hard work of the Red River Retention Authority, along with the work of NRCS Chief Dave White and the State Conservationists and their staff in each state, to come up with common-sense, workable solutions to control flood damage throughout the Red River Valley." "This special initiative funding will expand WRP's ability to mitigate flood damage within the basin by retaining higher levels of flood waters within the easement acres," Vilsack said. "Projects funded through this initiative will reduce the costs to our rural private landowners who continue to experience severe damages during these flood events." USDA will provide the funding for this special WRP initiative in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota. This additional funding will allow the three states to accept new applications and fund more WRP easements. Restoring wetlands and associated uplands through this initiative will help retain and slow floodwaters in the Red River Valley Watershed, while providing valuable wildlife habitat and reducing damages from severe flooding. WRP, administered by USDA's Natural Resources Conservation Service, is the federal government's largest private lands wetlands restoration program. It provides voluntary technical and financial assistance to private landowners and Indian tribes to restore, protect and enhance wetlands that have been degraded or converted to agricultural uses. More than 80 percent of the restorable wetlands in the Red River Valley are privately owned. The Red River Retention Authority identified a critical need for targeted technical and financial assistance for eligible landowners in the watershed. WRP projects funded through this special initiative will result in long-term benefits to taxpayers by reducing funding spent by local and state governments to repair damaged roads, bridges and public areas. Reduced damage to cropland and associated disaster and damage payments also will save taxpayers money in the long term. For more information about WRP, please visit www.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/wrp.
04.01.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC) - U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson was awarded the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Spirit of Enterprise Award for his record of supporting job creation and economic growth. Thomas Donohue, President and CEO of the U.S. Chamber said, "The Chamber is honored to recognize Congressman Peterson for helping create an environment in which business can grow and create jobs. He has shown great conviction by standing on the side of business, at a time when it matters most." The Chamber scorecard shows that Peterson maintained an 88 percent rating with the Chamber in the first half of the 111th Congress."I'm grateful to the U.S. Chamber for their recognition, and I am proud to support businesses and their employees across the 7th district," Peterson said.
01.12.2011	“Major General Shellito will be a great leader for the Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs,” Peterson said. “Veterans across the state can count on Major General Shellito’s commitment to veterans and their families, and I’m pleased that Governor Dayton has chosen him for such an important job.”
01.08.2011	“I was shocked and saddened to hear of the shooting of my colleague and friend Gabrielle Giffords, and other staff and constituents in Tucson today. “Gabby is a terrific Congresswoman, and someone who works very well with members on both sides of the aisle. She is really an up-and-coming leader in Congress. My prayers are with her and her family as she fights to survive, and my thoughts go out to the families of those who died or were injured in this senseless act of violence.”
01.05.2011	United States House of Representatives is scheduled to conduct the first votes of the 112th Congress on January 5th, 2011 at Noon.
01.05.2011	112th Congress Freshmen Class on the steps of the United States Capitol Building. The First Session of the 112th Congress commences January 5th, 2011.
10.08.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC) — Congressman Collin Peterson took action again last week to protect Second Amendment rights by opposing a U.S. Department of State decision to prohibit the importation of guns sought by gun collectors. When the State Department announced its decision to prohibit the importation of historic M-1 Garand rifles Congressman Peterson wrote to Secretary Clinton and indicated his opposition to the decision. He also cosponsored legislation (HR 6240) to allow the rifle sales to move forward. “The government shouldn’t be doing this,” Congressman Peterson said. “The Second Amendment guarantees a right to keep and bear arms, and that’s just as true for historic gun collectors as it is for every American citizen.” 45 Democratic and Republican members of Congress signed the letter to the Secretary. In addition, Congressman Peterson supported the “Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act Improvement Act”. According to the National Rifle Association, the legislation “is a common-sense measure that benefits everyone” by making it easier for retired law enforcement officers to carry a gun. “Standing up for our law enforcement officers and the Second Amendment shouldn’t be a partisan thing,” said Congressman Peterson. “Allowing retired law enforcement officers to carry a gun is simply common sense and an obvious way to improve public safety.” The Improvement Act will now be sent to the President for his signature.
09.30.2010	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Collin C. Peterson today announced that Hutchinson Senior Care Services was awarded USDA Rural Development funds to construct a senior nursing facility. “This new facility will provide more options for seniors in the Hutchinson area,” Peterson said. “I’m pleased that Hutchinson Senior Care Services is thinking ahead to meet the needs of the aging population in the Hutchinson area.” USDA will provide a $13.3 million direct loan, and a $5 million guaranteed loan to Hutchinson Senior Care Services. USDA Rural Development's Community Facilities Program helps finance essential community facilities for public use in rural areas. These facilities include child care centers, hospitals, medical clinics, assisted-living facilities, fire and rescue stations, police stations, community centers, public buildings and transportation. Through this program, USDA ensures that such facilities are available to all rural residents. These funds are available to public bodies, non-profit organizations and federally recognized Indian tribes. More information about USDA Rural Development can be found at www.rurdev.usda.gov.
09.28.2010	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Peterson announced that Sibley County is to receive $1,210,720.46 in Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Public Assistance grants for flood damage this past spring. “The Spring 2010 floods caused erosion in our drainage ditches in Sibley County. With this fall’s torrential rains that have caused flooding in many parts of Minnesota, it’s important that we work to address the problems quickly before more extensive damage happens,” said Congressman Peterson. “As always, I am dedicated to finding long-term solutions for flood protection throughout the 7th Congressional District and will continue to work with my constituents on this.” Above average temperatures from March through mid-April caused a rapid melt of the snowpack resulting in large volumes of water and high velocities of flow in the County’s drainage ditches. The money will be used to repair 93 eroded areas in 11 County drainage ditches in Sibley County.
09.28.2010	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Peterson announced his support and co-sponsorship for H.R. 5141, the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act. This will eliminate Section 9006 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which puts unnecessarily burdensome rules upon small businesses. “I have always worked to reduce red tape and foolish regulations for small businesses and this bill will do just that,” said Peterson. “This provision should not have been included in the health care reform bill and it was one of the reasons I voted against it.” Section 9006 would require all businesses to file a separate IRS-1099 reporting form for every single business-to-business transaction that totals more than $600 in a given year. Requiring small businesses to fill out more paperwork will not improve health care delivery. In addition, larger businesses may hesitate before contracting with smaller businesses because of the increased paperwork. “I voted for eliminating the IRS-1099 reporting provision of the health care reform bill when it was considered by the House [as part of H.R. 5982, the Small Business Tax Relief Act] in July”, said Peterson, “but unfortunately the bill itself didn’t pass. I hope we can pass this stand-alone bill before the end of this session.”
09.27.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) has awarded Congressman Collin C. Peterson the 2010 Guardian of Small Business Award. This award is given to Members of Congress that have a strong small business voting record – voting more than 70 percent of the time with small business. Peterson was the only Democrat in the Minnesota delegation to receive this distinction. "I started a small business of my own and know the difficulties small businesses face. For my entire time in Congress, I’ve made standing up for small business owners and employees a priority," Peterson said. "I work hard in my role as Congressman for the 7th District to make sure anything coming out of DC is friendly to small businesses.” NFIB used 7 votes in the 111th Congress to determine the score. Peterson received an 86 percent rating – one of two top scorers in the state. “In the 111th Congress, Representative Peterson proved that he is a champion of small business,” said Dan Danner, NFIB president and CEO. “The Guardian of Small Business Award is a token of our deep appreciation that small business owners have for elected officials who promote and protect their right to own, operate and grow their businesses.” In addition to the Guardian of Small Business award, Congressman Peterson has been awarded the 2010 Golden Triangle award from National Farmers Union and the 2010 Friend of Farm Bureau award from American Farm Bureau. Both of these awards honor Congressman Peterson’s dedication and advocacy on behalf of all of the farmers and ranchers in the 7th Congressional District. "I have always worked towards common sense changes because they are good for Minnesota, good for small business and good for the United States," Peterson said. “I believe in this current economy helping our small businesses succeed is vital to our recovery.” NFIB is a non-profit, non-partisan member organization which represents the concerns of small businesses at the federal level and at state legislatures.
09.20.2010	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson announced his support and co-sponsorship for Congressman Walt Minnick’s Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act of 2010 (H.R. 5933). “Our servicemen and women have honorably served our country and we should honor them for their dedication to our freedom,” said Rep. Peterson. “This bill does just that. By honoring those who serve, we are investing in our future as a free nation. This is just the right thing to do. Without passage of this bill, veterans from Minnesota could lose benefits. This is a must-pass bill.” In 1944, Congress passed the first GI Bill supporting our young soldiers who served our nation with the promise of a free four-year college education. Within a year, it wasn’t being used by as many as experts had predicted. A year later, Congress passed a bill to fix the problems with enrollment and other issues - thousands went on to use the services of the GI Bill. The original GI bill of 1944 returned $7 to the economy for every $1 spent thereby growing and strengthening America’s strong middle class. In 2008, Congress passed the Post-9/11 GI Bill to restore the promise made a generation ago to offer full, four-year college scholarships for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans – on par with the benefits available after World War II. Many of the issues that were resolved with the first GI bill have presented themselves again. Tuition and fees at public colleges and universities are completely taken care of for servicemen and women. However, those who choose to attend private institutions do not earn the same benefits even though the 2008 GI Bill makes that promise. Under the newly published 2010/2011 Veterans Affairs tuition/fees chart, students attending certain private schools in Minnesota may receive $7000 less in benefits than they did last year. Rep. Peterson will co-sponsor The Post 9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act of 2010 to correct and streamline the services offered in the 2008 bill so all service members receive the benefits they deserve. This bill not only offers tuition assistance but provides valuable job training, expands and simplifies the Yellow Ribbon program, and grants tuition credit to deserving National Guardsmen.
09.09.2010	( WASHINGTON , DC ) – U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and U.S. Reps. Jim Oberstar, Collin Peterson, and Tim Walz announced that six schools in Minnesota were designated as 2010 National Blue Ribbon Schools. The Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors public and private elementary, middle and high schools whose students achieve at very high levels or have made significant progress and helped close gaps in achievement, especially among disadvantaged and minority students. “ Minnesota schools have always set high expectations for our students,” Klobuchar said. “These Blue Ribbon schools are leading the way in providing our students the quality education they will need to succeed and are well-deserving of this national recognition.” “I want to congratulate the schools for being designated National Blue Ribbon Schools and for carrying on Minnesota ’s tradition of leadership in education,” said. Sen. Franken. “These schools should be proud that because of hard work and innovative teaching practices, they’re producing some of the nation’s top students. I hope that when Congress reauthorizes the No Child Left Behind Act next year, we adopt some of the proven practices used at model schools like these.” “Everyone in Minnesota can share in the pride that Principal Ken Decoster and the rest of the staff at South West Elementary School in Grand Rapids are taking in the work they do every day,” Oberstar said. “An accomplishment like this is a team effort between parents, educators and students.” “I offer my congratulations to Norman County East Elementary School on becoming a Blue Ribbon School,” Peterson said. “It is a good example of the many schools in Minnesota that are dedicated to student excellence and making sure our future generation are education and ready for the workforce. I’m proud to represent another Blue Ribbon School.” “I’m proud to see two southern Minnesota schools recognized nationally as Blue Ribbon Schools for their outstanding achievements,” said Congressman Tim Walz. “Lewiston-Altura Elementary was recognized as a high performing school that not only has improved performance to the highest levels, but has done so despite a significant portion of its student body coming from disadvantaged backgrounds. Byron High School was singled out as a consistently high performing school that continues to hold its students and teachers to the highest standards. I am proud to have the privilege of representing these two great schools and the teachers, students and parents who make up these communities in Congress.” The following schools were awarded Blue Ribbon status: Byron High School , Byron , MN , Principal: Mr. Michael Duffy Greenwood Elementary School , Plymouth , MN , Principal: Mr. Brad Gustafson Lewiston-Altura Elementary School , Lewiston , MN Principal: Mr. David Riebel Norman County East Elementary School , Gary , MN , Principal: Mr. Dean Krogstad Parkview Center School , Roseville , MN , Principal: Ms. Kristen Smith Olson Southwest Elementary School , Grand Rapids , MN , Principal: Mr. Ken Decoster
07.29.2010	( WASHINGTON , DC )—In early July, Congressman Collin Peterson visited Marshall and made a stop at Action Manufacturing to meet with Tim and Donna Swenson. After touring their facility and learning more about the Action Trackchair, Peterson arranged for a meeting in Washington , DC with representatives from the Department of Veterans Affairs, and representatives from groups like Ducks Unlimited, the Sportsmen’s Foundation, the National Rifle Association, National Shooting Sports Foundation. Congressman Tim Walz also attended the meeting. About Action Trackchairs: After 30 years of being in the recreational motor sports business, Tim Swenson decided to help people to have the freedom of getting off the normal path. We started developing this all terrain wheelchair in 2008, it is called the Action Trackchair. Tim and Donna have a son Jeff, who is in a chair, and know of many other friends that would love the freedom of hunting, hiking, going to the beach, fishing, and other similar activities. The Action Trackchair enables people to have access to those types of activities. https://www.actiontrackchair.com/
07.21.2010	Peterson praises Wall Street reform law(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Collin Peterson today applauded President Obama for signing the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The bill will help hold Wall Street accountable, end taxpayer funded bailouts, and restore confidence in our financial system. Congressman Peterson voted for the Wall Street Reform bill when it passed the U.S. House of Representatives. “I voted yes to holding Wall Street accountable,” Peterson said. “This bill will end the ‘too-big-to-fail’ bailouts and reign in the unregulated derivatives trading that got way out of hand.” Peterson, Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, was instrumental in writing the provisions of the bill that reign in the previously unregulated ‘over-the-counter’ derivative market, a market valued at $600 trillion. The derivatives market is blamed as one of the causes of the current financial crisis. “The bill isn’t perfect, but it does fix a lot of the problems that got us into this mess,” Peterson said. “Mistakes were made, and I think we’ve got to hold Wall Street accountable for what happened. This bill is a good first step.” Peterson attended the signing ceremony Wednesday at the White House with President Obama, saying, “This legislation reflects nearly three years of public debate and a lot of bipartisan work on derivatives and their effect on the economy.”
07.02.2010	(Washington, D.C.) – After sending a letter to President Obama calling for a Presidential Disaster Declaration for seven Minnesota counties that suffered severe storm damage, U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Jim Oberstar, Collin Peterson and Tim Walz announced today the President has responded and declared a major disaster for Faribault, Freeborn, Olmsted, Otter Tail, Polk, Steele, and Wadena Counties. The storms caused thousands of acres of crop damage and other agricultural losses, as well as widespread damage to public facilities and infrastructure. Over 800 homes were damaged, including more than 100 that were completely destroyed. “These communities have shown tremendous courage and resilience since the storms tore through their towns,” Klobuchar said. “But at times like these, local communities should not have to go it alone. The federal government has an essential role to play in supporting the recovery effort, and today’s announcement will allow us to be able to deliver that help quickly.” “I am pleased that today President Obama has responded to our request and the needs of seven Minnesota Counties who were hit hard by recent tornadoes,” Senator Franken said. “This declaration will help make sure that Minnesota has the resources it needs to repair the damage done to public infrastructure, and make replacements where necessary. I will push to get this assistance to these Minnesota communities as quickly as possible.” “I am pleased that the President took action on this request in short order,” said Congressman Oberstar. “The fast response by FEMA and state officials is helping to ensure that we get assistance to those who need it.” “I appreciate the President’s prompt attention to this serious situation,” Congressman Peterson said. “Many parts of our state have seen tremendous damage to homes, land and public infrastructure. While damage assessments are ongoing, this is an important step in the recovery process.” “I’m pleased that the President moved so quickly to send aid to Minnesota communities that sustained the most severe storm damage during June,” said Congressman Walz. “We are still in the early stages of the recovery process and as we move forward I am committed to ensuring that the federal government moves as quickly as possible to help communities get back on their feet.” The letter sent by the congressional members followed an official submission for assistance by Governor Pawlenty.
07.01.2010	Congressman Peterson released the following statement on the 60th Anniversary of the Korean War: “Last month marked the beginning of a forgotten war. On June 25, 1950 our nation, sent 1.5 million Americans to help to defend a country’s freedom halfway around the world. The sacrifices of the Korean War veterans to defend freedom and peace were not in vain. “Sometimes we fight wars where the outcome causes people to wonder whether it was worth it. Yet nowhere is the contrast between freedom and oppression more apparent than on the Korean Peninsula today. The stakes of the Korean War are on clear display 60 years after the men and women we honor endured that brutal fight. “As we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the beginning of the Korean War. I would like to pay tribute to the veterans who have served in this war,” Peterson said.
06.30.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Collin Peterson (D-MN) praised the U.S. Supreme Court’s recent decision in McDonald v. Chicago where it ruled that it is unconstitutional for state and local governments to restrict individual gun rights. In doing so, the Court struck down the city of Chicago’s gun control law. “The Court got this one right,” Congressman Peterson said. “The Second Amendment guarantees all Americans should have the same rights no matter where they live.” In November 2009, Congressman Peterson joined 309 other members of Congress in sending a “friend of the court” brief to the Supreme Court expressing their belief that the Second Amendment applied to state and local governments. The Supreme Court’s reasoning largely mirrored the reasoning in Congressman Peterson’s brief. “I’ve always been a strong defender of our gun rights,” Congressman Peterson said. “This ruling makes clear that no government—federal, state or local—can infringe on the right to ‘keep and bear arms’ and I applaud the Court’s decision.” Downloads » The amicus brief Congressman Peterson signed in November is available here.
06.21.2010	( Washington , DC )—Representative Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) announced the appointment of Jordan Rasmusson, senior at Fergus Falls High School , to serve as a Page in the United States House of Representatives for the 2010 summer term. “This is a great opportunity for high school students from across the country to come to Washington , DC to learn about and experience the United States House of Representatives,” Peterson said. “ Jordan will serve the people of the 7th Congressional District and the United States this summer and experience how Congress works on the inside.” Pages have been a part of the US House of Representatives for over two hundred years. Currently, high school students (juniors or rising seniors) are eligible to participate in this program. They live, work and study while in Washington , DC and are closely monitored in all activities by the Clerk of the House of Representatives and staff. “Most students only get a chance to read about how government works. As a page, I will be a part of the process,” said Jordan Rasmusson. “I hope to really get a feel for our nation's capital, what makes it tick, and how policymakers work together for the people of the United States . Congressman Peterson and Speaker Pelosi made this all possible and I want to thank them for their support throughout the application process.” Pages work together to assist Members on the House floor by preparing the House Floor for sessions, answering phones, and delivering correspondence within the House. For more information about this program please visit https://pageprogram.house.gov/.
02.26.2010	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson, House Armed Services Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) and Representative Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO) have introduced a Joint Resolution to repeal the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) “endangerment finding”. This resolution is exactly the same as S.J. Res. 26, the “disapproval resolution” introduced by Senators Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) in the U.S. Senate. “The EPA is trying to use unwarranted regulatory action to go after greenhouse gas emissions without seeking Congressional approval”, Peterson said. “The Clean Air Act was never meant to be used for this but they’re trying to do it anyway so Congress needs to act. Most everyone I’ve heard from about this thinks that elected officials — not EPA bureaucrats — should decide how to address our energy problems.” According to a statement made by the EPA Administrator the Agency is planning to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from power plants within the next twelve months. Many industry analysts believe that these regulations will be costly and that consumers will ultimately bear the brunt of the cost increases. “The EPA shouldn’t start regulating greenhouse gas emissions under a decades old law that was never intended for that purpose. We need to stop the EPA in its tracks on this and prevent them from simply imposing these over-reaching regulations on all of us.” The Peterson-Skelton-Emerson “disapproval resolution” introduced on February 25th is the only bi-partisan “disapproval resolution” in the House that addresses the EPA’s “endangerment finding. The resolution would nullify the EPA’s controversial regulatory action and would prevent it from regulating greenhouse gas emissions coming from hospitals, schools and farms. In January, Peterson, Skelton and Emerson introduced a different bill, HR 4572, to change the law to prevent the EPA from regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. Peterson said "A few weeks ago, Chairman Skelton, Congresswoman Emerson and I introduced H.R. 4572, a bill that will change the underlying law, but we’ve also introduced this new Joint Resolution because it’s the most immediate legislative tool we have for stopping the EPA’s unilateral regulatory actions.” Under the Congressional Review Act of 1996, Congress has 60 legislative days to review a major rule under expedited legislative procedures and consider a resolution to disapprove of the rulemaking.
02.02.2010	(Washington, DC) – Today, U.S. Representative Collin Peterson joined House Armed Services Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) and Representative Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO) in introducing legislation to prevent the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act, and to stop the EPA from harming the renewable fuels industry. “I have no confidence that the EPA can regulate greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act without doing serious damage to our economy,” Peterson said. “Americans know we’re way too dependent on foreign oil and fossil fuels in this country — and I’ve worked hard to develop practical solutions to that problem — but Congress should be making these types of decisions, not unelected bureaucrats at the EPA.” The EPA recently announced in December that it would consider greenhouses gases a danger to public health, as defined by the Clean Air Act. In this circumstance, if Congress does not act the EPA will begin to regulate tailpipe emissions this April. Soon after that energy analysts expect the EPA to announce regulations for power plant emissions too. “The Clean Air Act was not meant for this. It was meant to clean up the air, to get lead out of the air. It was not meant to fight global warming.” The Peterson-Skelton-Emerson bill would make clear that the EPA cannot regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. The bill would also amend current law to stop the EPA from punishing American farmers for deforestation taking place in foreign countries, and it would broaden the definition of renewable biomass in order to strengthen our own domestic renewable fuels industry. “This is important legislation and I’ll be working hard to get it passed because if Congress doesn’t do something soon, the EPA is going to impose these regulations on its own. I’m willing to consider other ideas but the bottom line is we need to do something now before the EPA does.”
02.01.2010	(Detroit Lakes, MN) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson announced today that United States Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack will be in Marshall on February 15 and 16 to attend and give the keynote address at the 2010 Home Grown Economy conference at Southwest Minnesota State University (SWSU). “Having Secretary Vilsack come to Marshall to attend and participate in this year’s conference is a big deal for us,” Peterson said. “He knows agriculture and he knows that local foods are an important component of economic development for us. I think people are going to be very interested to talk with him and to hear what he has to say.” The Home Grown Economy Conference will kickoff on Monday, February 15, with a Local Food and Wine Sampler Showcase catered by Dr. Michael Cheng’s culinary students at SWSU. Rep. Peterson and Secretary Vilsack will also be there to welcome conference attendees and Rep. Peterson will play his guitar and sing with a local band. Registration for Monday’s event will be limited to the first 120 people who register. “On Tuesday Secretary Vilsack will be our keynote speaker,” Peterson said. “As people know he’s a former governor of Iowa and he knows from a lot of first hand experience how agriculture generates economic growth in rural America.” In addition to the Marshall location, Secretary Vilsack’s keynote address and other sessions on Tuesday, February 16 will be broadcast to other locations in the District through interactive video. The following college campus locations will be participating: University of Minnesota, Crookston, University of Minnesota, Morris, Bemidji State University, and Minnesota State Community and Technical College in Fergus Falls. For more information on the 2010 Home Grown Economy conference or to register, go to www.regionalpartnerships.umn.edu, or contact Congressman Peterson’s office at 218-847-5056.
01.29.2010	When the President gave his State of the Union address this week he certainly didn’t say everything I’d hoped to hear. However, I do think that he struck the proper tone and I got the clear impression that he’s starting to hear what I’ve been hearing all along from people out in rural Minnesota – “cut spending, focus on the economy and jobs, and work together to get things done”. That’s exactly what we need to be doing to get our country back on track and if he’s serious about that then I think Congress will do its part too. Spending is out of control and we absolutely have to get that stopped. By itself the President’s proposal to freeze discretionary spending for three years isn’t going to solve our larger problems but it’s a step in the right direction and I think that if we can keep other committees from diverting our mandatory money most agriculture programs will still be OK. Maybe we should consider freezing spending for more than three years, but for now we should all support a three-year spending freeze and help get it done. The President called for a Debt Commission and I agree with that, but more to the point we need one that can actually work. The sad fact is that Congress won’t deal with this debt reduction issue no matter which party is in charge – all you have to do is look at the record to see the proof of that. I supported Senator Conrad’s idea of a legislatively created Debt Commission and although Senate Republicans and Senate Democrats voted that down I’m still hopeful that we can get this done using the Executive Order approach that President committed himself to. It can work, but it absolutely must be done right. The President mentioned a few ideas he has for increased spending on some specific programs that at other times and in other economic circumstances most of us might consider very worthwhile – but when we’re already in debt beyond anything we’ve ever seen before I don’t think this is the time for any “new” spending proposals. I’m still not so sure that the President has gotten the people’s message on health care. If he’s been listening – and I hope he has been – he knows that people are skeptical to say the least. No matter who’s talking – the government, the media, lobbyists, Republicans or Democrats -- you can’t tell people “this is not going to affect you, it’s not going to add to the deficit, and we’re going to cover 30 million more people” and expect them to believe you. You can’t get something for nothing. People know there’s no free lunch. Cost shifting is a reality in health care, especially here in Minnesota , and any changes we make to our system could create more of that, and that’s not what we should be doing. People know that getting more is going to cost more, and in the current economy you can’t blame people for saying “no, thanks” to that. But with all that said most of the Republicans and Democrats I talk to about health care really do want to get something done. I’ve told the President that he should back off a bit and focus on specific problems, like getting costs under control, fixing geographic disparities, covering pre-existing conditions for kids and letting them stay longer on their parents’ insurance policies. Incremental progress in the right direction is something we can accomplish so we should figure out what most of us agree on and get that done. I think that if the President is willing to scale back his agenda and lead in a bipartisan manner Congress can pass meaningful legislation to make positive changes to the system that most people will support. The President needs to keep working to convince Minnesotans and Americans in general that he understands what they’re most concerned about. If he can do that then perhaps we can all set aside our ideologies and our political agendas and get back to working together to accomplish what the citizens of this country need.
01.22.2010	(Washington , DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson announced today that the Agricultural Utilization Research Institute (AURI) in Crookston has been selected to receive a $99,000 grant to provide technical assistance to small and emerging businesses in the biomass processing industry in seven rural Minnesota counties. The funding is administered through USDA Rural Development’s Rural Business Enterprise Grant (RBEG) program. “We need to strengthen and create new small businesses if we want to get the economy back on track,” Congressman Peterson said. “That’s why this funding is so important.” The technical assistance provided will help meet the demands of the growing biomass processing industry in Itasca, Aitkin, Stearns, Marshall , Winona, Crow Wing and Chisago counties. Estimates suggest the grant will save and create more than 25 jobs in these counties. USDA Rural Development’s RBEG program helps finance new and existing businesses as well as employment-related adult education programs. RBEG funds can be used for start-up and working capital loans, building and plant renovations, transportation improvements, project planning and other business needs. “This grant is going to help AURI and these counties create jobs, and that’s really what this about,” Congressman Peterson commented. “Small businesses are the engines that drive economic growth, and AURI has always done a great job serving Minnesota and the 7th District.” More information on Rural Development can be found at www.rurdev.usda.gov/mn. More information on AURI can be found at www.auri.org.
01.05.2010	(Detroit Lakes, MN) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson (DFL-MN07) announced today that “The Home Grown Economy 2010 – Equipping You to Build Community Based Food Systems” conference will be held in Marshall on February 15th and 16th. In addition, to improve access for constituents throughout the 7th Congressional District, interactive video sessions will be held on Tuesday, February 16th at the following college campus locations: University of Minnesota, Crookston, University of Minnesota, Morris, Bemidji State University, and Minnesota State Community and Technical College in Fergus Falls. “Changing attitudes about food, its impact on health and well-being, and growing opportunities for small farmers have sparked a movement across the country and in Minnesota of consumers seeking out locally grown foods, Peterson said, “and I’m hosting this conference to help get the word out and link people to the available resources.” “With this demand for more locally grown foods, farmers and rural communities can benefit from a variety of new opportunities. The farm to school program, linking local agricultural producers to school lunch and breakfast programs, is growing in Minnesota. Farmers markets and food co-ops are springing up all over the state and in grocery stores; “Minnesota Grown” and “locally grown” labels are being sought out by shoppers.” “In 2007, I sponsored the first in a series of meetings on Local Foods, addressing how local foods can be an economic development engine for rural communities. Since then, I’ve held additional meetings on connecting local foods and economic opportunity.” “This year I’ve invited USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack to provide the keynote address. In addition, Ken Meter of Crossroads Research Center will present his insights on how food networks thrive and strengthen local economies. Panel presenters will provide information about what is happening at the local level and each regional site will be afforded an opportunity to discuss how they can expand upon their local community based food system.” “By sponsoring this conference again, I’m hoping to provide people in western and northwestern Minnesota with practical and useful information about how local foods can become an economic development engine for farmers, rural communities and development organizations, and how we can all work together to meet growing market demands for healthier food.” For more information on the 2010 Home Grown Economy conference, go to www.regionalpartnerships.umn.edu, or contact Congressman Peterson’s office at 218-847-5056.
11.25.2009	(WASHINGTON , DC) - Congressman Collin Peterson has signed on to an amicus curiae, or “friend of the court,” brief asking the Supreme Court to uphold Second Amendment rights on the state and local government level. The Court announced in late September that it would visit the question of whether state and local governments could deny rights guaranteed by the Second Amendment on the federal level. The court case, McDonald vs. Chicago, specifically questions a Chicago , Illinois gun control law. “I’m pleased the Supreme Court is going to address this issue,” Peterson said after learning of the Court’s decision to hear the case. “The Court should take this opportunity to make clear what we all already know, that the Second Amendment applies to state and local governments too. No state legislature can take away the freedom to protect yourself.” In a court case last year, District of Columbia vs. Heller, the Supreme Court decided that the Second Amendment protects an individual’s, and not just a group’s, right to “keep and bear Arms.” However, that case only examined federal gun control laws in the District of Columbia . McDonald vs. Chicago addresses a remaining question, whether or not the Second Amendment applies to the states. “I’ve always been a defender of the Second Amendment,” Congressman Peterson said. “It seems clear to me that no government—federal, state or local—can infringe on the right to ‘keep and bear arms.’” In McDonald vs. Chicago, Alan Gura, the same attorney who challenged the District of Columbia gun ban, brought suit against gun regulations in Chicago . The Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals rejected his claims and said that the Second Amendment did not apply to the states. The Supreme Court will revisit that decision. Downloads » The amicus brief Congressman Peterson signed was filed with the U.S. Supreme Court on Monday and is available here.
11.17.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC) - U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson today announced that three projects in his district have been selected to receive Distance Learning and Telemedicine grants through USDA Rural Development. The funding will increase educational opportunities and access to quality healthcare in rural areas. “These projects show how rural organizations are finding innovative ways to overcome budget gaps and use existing resources to better serve their people,” Peterson said. “The Obama Administration is committed to providing access to modern healthcare services and quality education options in rural areas,” USDA Rural Development State Director Colleen Landkamer said. “These distance learning and telemedicine grants help deliver these opportunities by expanding telecommunications, educational resources and computer networks in rural communities.” The following organizations in Minnesota ’s Seventh District were awarded funding: • Lakes Country Service Cooperative in Fergus Falls was awarded $475,803 to connect 22 schools, a technical college and two educational service cooperatives with video conferencing equipment. The grant allows the schools, college and cooperative to share resources, provide access to new content, improve learning outcomes, reduce dropout rates and provide professional development services. The project impacts the following counties: Otter Tail, Traverse, Polk, Pennington, Isanti, Clay, Pine, Grant, Wilkin, Stevens, Koochiching, Red Lake , Kittson, Kanabec and Chisago. • The Mahnomen Health Center was awarded $69,573 to connect the health center on the White Earth Indian Reservation with remote hospitals using telemedicine equipment. The equipment will be used to analyze and evaluate heart disease and diabetes on the reservation. • MACCRAY public schools was awarded $346,904 to connect 19 schools to the Little Crow telemedia network and the Minnesota Valley Education District. The project will provide access to post-secondary education, share resources and complement the Minnesota World class Student Initiative. The project impacts the following counties: McLeod, Chippewa, Meeker, Stearns, Swift, Renville, Lac Qui Parle, Lyon , Kandiyohi, Big Stone and Yellow Medicine. For more information on USDA Rural Development in Minnesota , visit www.rurdev.usda.gov/mn. For more information on the Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program, visit https://www.usda.gov/rus/telecom/dlt/dlt.htm.
11.07.2009	“We need health care reform and we need to control and reduce health care costs – I know it and most Minnesotans know it. We also need everyone – Democrats and Republicans – to work together to make coverage more affordable for individuals and families, and to bring current and future costs under control. “I believe we can do these things, but so far, both parties have put politics ahead of bipartisanship. As a result, Congress is struggling to deliver the affordable improvements to our current system that will improve and strengthen health care in Minnesota and continue our reputation for high quality, affordable care. “In my view, the bill that passed the House of Representatives on Saturday fell well short of those objectives and so I voted against it. Don’t get me wrong – I think the bill was trying to tackle the right problems and generally was going in the right direction, so I’m hopeful that as the process goes forward and the Senate does its work we will soon see a bill that Democrats and Republicans will be willing to vote for. But we’re not there yet. “Although the bill was full of good intentions, our current system is fiscally unsustainable and this bill won’t change that. Medicare’s current unfunded liabilities are some $37 trillion, and Medicaid is close behind at around $35 trillion. This is money we don’t have, money we’ll have to borrow from foreign countries or raise here at home through tax increases. We have to tackle this problem and fix the underlying structural problems in both Medicare and Medicaid. “The House bill also commits the government to provide billions in subsidies to help people buy insurance in the marketplace. Subsidies only shift the cost of care from individuals to government and doing this leaves us promising to spend more money that we don’t have. Adding it all up, I don’t think our country can afford to add another trillion-plus dollar health care delivery plan. “I also voted against the bill House Republicans offered because it was a flawed bill. It did nothing to control costs and offered nothing to expand coverage. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) said that the Republican bill would create even larger numbers of uninsured Americans and that’s absolutely the wrong direction for us to be going in. We need to expand coverage, get more people insured and reduce costs. “But with all that said it was important to have the process go forward. There are a number of reforms we can and should enact, reforms that would attract bipartisan support, and I’m hopeful that these things will be included at the next stage. “I’m in favor of expanding coverage, creating market-based insurance exchanges, establishing portability of coverage, and eliminating the ability of insurance companies to exclude pre-existing conditions from coverage. I think we should have tort reform, allow people to buy coverage across state lines, and restructure our payment systems so that we reward care that delivers high quality at lower costs instead of simply spending money for treatments that do little for the patient. “Eventually the final bill has to look different than what was considered today because we have to get costs under control. As I said at the beginning, we need health care reform and most Minnesotans know it. We’re going in the right direction, and although the current bill wasn’t something I could vote for, I think that if we continue to work together and listen to one another we can write and pass something that will do all of what we need to do – and that will be something I’ll vote for. Getting this right is critical to our future and to our country’s fiscal future. If we let partisan politics rule the day we will all lose.”
11.04.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC) – The U.S House of Representatives has passed a bill, authored by Congressman Collin Peterson, to rename the Alexandria , Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs outpatient clinic after Max J. Beilke. “Sgt. Beilke was a true advocate for veterans, and naming this clinic for him is a reminder of his tireless service,” Peterson said. “I’m just glad I could be part of the effort spearheaded by Max’s family to really make this happen.” Master Sergeant Beilke served 22 years in the United States Army and, according to military records, was the last U.S. combat solider to leave Vietnam in March of 1973. The Alexandria native died in the September 11, 2001 terrorists attack on the Pentagon. Beilke was awarded the Defense of Freedom medal and the Meritorious Civilian Service Award. Although Belke retired from the army in 1974, he spent the rest of his life serving his country in support of veterans and their families. After leaving the Army, he served as deputy chief of the Army’s Retirement Services Division and was an active member of the Army Chief of Staff Retiree Council. The Clinic opened in October, and the VA estimates it will serve 3,500 local veterans with primary and mental health care as well as other services.
10.26.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC) – After two successful local foods conferences in 2007 and 2008, Congressman Collin Peterson announced today that he will sponsor another conference on the topic. The Home Grown Economy 2010 – Equipping You to Build Community Based Food Systems, will be held at Southwest Minnesota State University in Marshall, on February 15th and 16th. “My goal in sponsoring this conference again is to continue to explore ways in which local foods can become an economic development engine for farmers, rural communities and development organizations, and how we can all work together to meet growing market demands,” Peterson said. To improve access for constituents across the Seventh Congressional District, interactive video sessions will be held on Tuesday, February 16th at the following campuses: University of Minnesota, Crookston, University of Minnesota, Morris, Bemidji State University, and Minnesota State Community and Technical College in Fergus Falls. USDA Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack has been invited to provide the keynote address. Ken Meter of Crossroads Research Center will present his insights on how food networks thrive and strengthen local economies. Panel presenters will provide information about what is happening at the local level and each regional site will be afforded an opportunity to discuss how they can expand upon their local community based food system. “In my role as Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, I’ve emphasized the importance of the growing markets for organic, locally grown and sustainable agriculture as exciting new opportunities in agriculture,” Peterson said. Watch for further details at Peterson’s website at https://collinpeterson.house.gov.
10.16.2009	(WASHINGTON , DC) — Congressman Collin Peterson today announced that the State of Minnesota has been awarded $578,000 for 13 projects under USDA’s Specialty Crop Block Grant Program. “In the last Farm Bill I worked hard to include funding for these types of investments in fruit and vegetable production, conservation, nutrition and renewable energy,” Peterson said. Through the Specialty Crop Block Grant Program, USDA is committed to increasing child and adult nutrition knowledge and consumption of specialty crops; improving efficiency and reducing costs of distribution systems; assisting all entities in the specialty crop distribution chain in developing Good Agricultural, Good Handling and Good Manufacturing practices, including cost share arrangements for funding audits of small farmer, packer and processor systems; investing in specialty crop research; enhancing food safety; developing new and improved specialty crop varieties; eradicating pest and plant health issues; and fostering organic and sustainable production practices. These projects are designed to enhance the competitiveness of specialty crops, which are defined as fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, dried fruits, horticulture and nursery crops, including floriculture. Upon reviewing states' plans for funding, USDA selected projects that support local and rural agriculture interests, increase the competitiveness of small producers, and promote or create direct marketing opportunities for specialty crop producers. With these funds, the Minnesota Department of Agriculture will: Partner with the University of Minnesota to increase the use of Minnesota-grown fruits and vegetables in school nutrition programs by making the connections to schools receiving funding through the recently authorized Federal Fruit and Vegetable Snack ProgramPartner with the Minnesota Project, Inc. to build markets for locally-grown specialty crops by providing technical assistance and training to restaurant and college campus buyers in Minnesota through Heartland Food Network programPartner with the University of Minnesota to design local food supply chains for specialty crops producers in Central MinnesotaPartner with the Organic Tree Fruit Association to make locally grown tree fruit crops more competitive in Minnesota by helping growers take advantage of the increasing interest in local organic productsPartner with the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy to bring more healthy locally grown produce into Minnesota Health Care Institutions by increasing awareness and expanding the purchase and consumption of locally produced specialty crops by hospital patients, employees and visitorsPartner with the Minnesota Grown Promotion Group, Inc. to assist Minnesota specialty crop producers by enhancing Minnesota’s buy local campaign for specialty crops in the Minnesota Grown Program through: development of a new database of fruit and vegetable growers who market to wholesale markets such as grocery stores and restaurants; continuation to improve functionality of the Minnesota Grown Directory; continuation to increase consumer purchases of fruits and vegetables by driving traffic to the Minnesota Grown website through the use of keywords related to specialty crops; and development of new point-of-sale materials to identify and promote Minnesota Grown fruits and vegetables in grocery stores. Because improvements to the online Directory benefit non-specialty crop producers, the Minnesota Grown Promotion Group will provide matching funds to pay for no less than 25% of the project costsPartner with the Minnesota Food Association to assist socially disadvantaged and limited resource farms in the Minnesota and the St. Croix River Valley in establishing and growing their organic specialty crop farm enterprisesEnhance the competitiveness of apples, berries, grapes, fresh market mixed vegetables, pumpkins, and fresh market sweet corn in Minnesota by a specialty crop enterprise management programPartner with the University of Minnesota to develop native and native-European hybrid hazelnut germplasm and agronomics for MinnesotaPartner with the Northarvest Bean Growers Association and the North Dakota Department of Agriculture to strengthen value-added programs on dry edible beans through: increased communication efforts on the health benefits of dry beans to health professionals; the summary of existing scientific research to prepare a health-related statement to assist the trade and consumers in understanding the health benefits of dry beans; and the expansion of current basic research in discovery and quantification of health benefits of dry beansPartner with the Minnesota Turf Seed Council to determine the seed production potential of the native prairie junegrass in Minnesota and evaluate the species for use as a low-input, sustainable turf grassPartner with the Women’s Environmental Institute to increase production and consumption of culturally based healthful specialty food crops in Northside & Philips Neighborhoods of Minneapolis by providing opportunities and resources for cross-cultural, cross-neighborhood research, development, and implementation of economic initiativesPerform pre-award and post-award activities in order to administrate the Specialty Crop Block Grant Program funding and ensure that the State Agency and sub-awardees abide by Federal and State requirements and regulations
10.14.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC) — Congressman Collin Peterson and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack today announced USDA Rural Development is providing $21.5 million for Pioneer Home, Inc. in Fergus Falls, through the Community Facilities program “This new facility will provide more space and more services that the community is asking for,” Peterson said. “I’m pleased that the Pioneer Home is thinking ahead to meet the needs of the aging population in the Fergus Falls area.” Pioneer Home, Inc., a non-profit health care provider, has been selected to receive a $10.75 million Recovery Act direct loan, and a $10.75 million non-Recovery Act guaranteed loan, through USDA Rural Development’s Community Facilities program, to construct a 105-bed nursing home to improve access to quality health care in Otter Tail and Wilkin counties. The new facility will feature modern equipment for staff and a common area where residents may interact. “With USDA’s support, Pioneer’s vision of a care center that is responsive to the evolving needs of seniors will be realized. The new replacement facility includes more private resident rooms and community gathering spaces that will help us offer more clinical, wellness and quality of life programs. On behalf of our future residents, we are absolutely delighted to be moving ahead with this all important financing in place,” said Pioneer CEO John Richards. “Revitalizing rural communities and building a 21st century economy is a promise the Obama Administration is committed to delivering and these Recovery Act investments will help build quality health care facilities and first-responder training centers in small towns and cities across the country,” said Vilsack. USDA Rural Development’s mission is to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life for rural residents. Rural Development fosters growth in homeownership, finances business development, and supports the creation of critical community and technology infrastructure. Further information on rural programs is available at a local USDA Rural Development office or by visiting USDA Rural Development’s website at www.rurdev.usda.gov.
10.06.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)— With a long list of dialysis patients in the Thief River Falls area waiting to receive care closer to home, Congressman Collin Peterson is pleased to announce that the Merit Care Dialysis Unit in Thief River Falls will be open soon. “Access to health care providers and to treatments is imperative for people living in rural areas,” Peterson said. “We have to do everything we can to ensure that providers stay in places like Thief River Falls and that their patients are able to get life saving treatments closer to home.” Because there are no dialysis treatment centers in the northwest corner of the State of Minnesota, patients needing dialysis as a result of kidney failure or end stage renal disease in this region typically have to travel to Fargo or Bemidji to seek life sustaining treatments. Merit Care in Thief River Falls recognized a need and decided there were enough patients to justify opening up a six station dialysis unit closer to home. However, the Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) indicated that without an exception from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the federal certifying agency, MDH would be unwilling to do the surveys necessary for the unit to receive patients. The hospital was told that these types of surveys and certifications are a low priority for the State agency. When Merit Care contacted Rep. Collin Peterson for help, he contacted CMS and secured the exception letter on August 13, 2009. With that exception, he was able to convince MDH to move Thief River Falls Hospital up on in its survey queue. With surveys completed and no deficiencies found, it should be just a matter of days before all the paperwork is filed and patient records are transferred. There is already a waiting list of 19 patients. “There is no question that the opening of this unit will have a big impact on the community,” Peterson said. “We need to ensure that everyone has access to treatments and care no matter where they live or what they can afford.”
08.12.2009	(Detroit Lakes , Minn) – Congressman Collin Peterson will host two public roundtable discussions on how to control health care spending while improving access to quality care. The events will begin with a panel of local stakeholders and experts who will make brief statements that will be followed by a moderated panel discussion, with questions from the audience to begin at that point. The public is invited to attend and participate. Willmar Meeting: Date: 2 p.m., Friday, August 14, 2009 Location: Health and Human Services Multipurpose Room 2200 23rd Street Willmar, MN 56201 Bemidji Meeting (NOTE ADDRESS CHANGE): Date: 1 p.m., Monday, August 17, 2009 Location: The Hampton Inn and Suites 1019 Paul Bunyan Drive South Bemidji, MN 56601 Phone: (218) 751-3600
07.16.2009	This year, when the House began to write climate change legislation, it was clear to me that if I didn’t get involved in this process, the needs of agriculture, forestry and rural communities would not be addressed. Ultimately, greenhouse gas emissions are probably going to be regulated, whether Congress acts or not. In 2007, the Supreme Court ruled that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has the authority under the Clean Air Act to regulate greenhouse gas emissions if they are found to endanger public health or welfare. The Supreme Court required EPA to determine if they are a public health hazard or not, and earlier this year, the EPA put out a proposed finding that says greenhouse gas emissions are a danger to public health and welfare. With or without Congressional action, EPA will be free to regulate greenhouse gases, resulting in one of the largest and most bureaucratic nightmares that the U.S. economy and Americans have ever seen. And, with EPA in the lead, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, arguably the voice of agriculture and rural America , would be left out of the process. Let me be clear, this is not a responsibility we want to leave in the hands of EPA. That’s why I decided to get involved and work with my colleagues in Congress to be sure that agriculture and rural America had a seat at the table when this climate change legislation was written. As a result, we were able to amend several important provisions that made the bill a better deal for agriculture and rural America . First, we insisted that agriculture and forestry be specifically exempt from any cap on emissions. Agricultural production is an extremely energy intensive industry that is estimated to produce seven percent of greenhouse gas emissions. Regulating emissions from farms, ranches and forestland across the country would be cumbersome, incredibly expensive, and would yield very limited benefits. So we made sure that the exemption was clear – there will be no taxes on cows or any segment of agriculture or forestry. Second, the climate change bill will allow agricultural producers to participate in a voluntary, USDA-run, market-based carbon offset program that allows them to earn money for practices that they implement to sequester carbon or avoid greenhouse gas emissions. It was important that USDA and not EPA be in charge of establishing and operating this offset program so that it would be easy for farmers, ranchers and forestland owners to participate. Third, the amendment allows USDA to determine what the best practices are for carbon sequestration. Under the original bill, only new activities could be counted as beneficial. We made sure that farmers and ranchers who currently participate in USDA conservation programs, or who have already undertaken carbon sequestration activities will receive offset credits for their efforts. We also made sure that those who have already participated in voluntary offset registries for carbon sequestration, such as the Chicago Climate Exchange and their partners, are also compensated. Fourth, for rural areas that rely on rural electric co-ops and small municipal utilities, we corrected a problem with the original bill, which did not provide enough credits to these electric providers. We understood the need to ensure that Midwestern providers would have additional credits as they begin to implement additional energy efficiency measures. Finally, the amended bill will prevent EPA from imposing unfair requirements on the biofuels industry that holds biofuels producers responsible for international changes in land use, such as deforestation in other countries. It is unreasonable to say that ethanol production in this country is causing trees to be cut down in Brazil . There’s no reliable way to measure these land use changes, so we changed language in the bill to stop these regulations until a study can be done to see if these changes can be accurately measured. Then the EPA and USDA will determine whether the economic models and science needed to back up international Indirect Land Use Change measurements are sufficient. At the end of the day, I know the climate change bill the House passed isn’t perfect. But it’s much better than it would have been if I hadn’t made it more farm-friendly, and it’s certainly better than if Congress had not acted and just let EPA bureaucrats regulate everything under the sun. Let me be clear, however, that these amendments I negotiated must be in place as this legislative process unfolds, or I will not support a final bill.
07.10.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson announced that the Glencoe Municipal Airport has received designation from the Federal Aviation Administration to be included in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS). “The growth of this region and the development of Highway 212 have made the Glencoe area ripe for expansion of these kinds of services,” Peterson said. “After two years of work to get this designation, I’m happy to see that the Glencoe airport will now have more opportunities to meet the demand for air travel in the region.” The NPIAS identifies existing and proposed airports that are significant to national air transportation and thus eligible to receive Federal grants. It also includes estimates of the amount of AIP money needed to fund infrastructure development projects that will bring these airports up to current design standards and add capacity to congested airports. The FAA is required to provide Congress with a 5-year estimate of AIP eligible development every 2 years. The Glencoe Municipal Airport has the ability to acquire 6.2 acres for hanger expansions and would be eligible to expand it’s runway to over 5000 feet to become one of 24 “KEY" Airports in the State System Plan.
07.09.2009	(WASHINGTON , DC) - U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson today introduced legislation that would name the Alexandria, Minn. VA outpatient clinic after Alexandria native Max J. Beilke. “Max Beilke served his country well and deserves to be honored for his many years of active duty, and for his commitment to soldiers after his retirement,” Peterson said. “I’m sure he would be pleased to see his hometown opening a community-based outpatient clinic designed to serve veterans in the region.” Beilke, a 1950 Alexandria High School graduate, served 22 years active duty in the U.S. Army in Germany, Korea and Vietnam. After his retirement he served as deputy chief of the Army’s Retirement Services, and was an active member of the Army Chief of Staff Retiree Council. Beilke was killed while working at the Pentagon during the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. Subsequently, he was awarded the Defense of Freedom medal and the Meritorious Civilian Service Award. He is buried in Arlington National Cemetery. The clinic is expected to open in September.
05.22.2009	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson announced that the cities of Climax, Deer Creek and Sunburg have been awarded USDA Rural Development funds designed to help support rural communities' efforts to protect and serve their residents with essential public safety services. “I applaud the efforts of these communities and especially their local emergency responders who volunteer their time to keep people safe,” Peterson said. “It’s difficult for many rural communities to purchase and maintain these vehicles and equipment, and this funding will go a long way to keep these essential services in place.” City of Climax The Climax Fire Department serves two towns and four townships with a total population of 243. The Climax Fire Department currently utilizes a 1977 van as its first responder unit, and this vehicle is no longer reliable. The City has approached Rural Development to purchase a used ambulance for $30,000. Once the vehicle is purchased, the Fire Department will once again have a reliable vehicle to serve its residents. City of Deer Creek The City of Deer Creek will purchase a used pumper fire truck at a total cost of $70,000. They are currently using a 27 year-old pumper truck which has outlived its useful life. The city provides fire fighting service to itself and portions of Compton , Inman, Leaf Lake , Oak Valley , and Deer Creek Townships. Rural Development is awarding a $20,000 grant and $20,000 loan. City of Sunburg The City of Sunburg has an outdated defibrillator unit in their ambulance. This project will allow the city to meet new defibrillator regulations so that they can stay in compliance with the ambulance service designation. Rural Development is awarding a $2,700 grant. The Rice Foundation funded the rest of the purchase with a $15,800 grant.
04.28.2009	(Detroit Lakes , Minn) - Congressman Collin Peterson announced that the Red River Basin Commission has been awarded $1.38 million in Agricultural Water Enhancement Program funds to provide financial and technical assistance to farmers and ranchers to conserve ground and surface water and improve water quality on agricultural lands. “We created AWEP in the 2008 Farm Bill to encourage these locally-led partnerships with USDA to improve water quality and quantity, and it is good to see these policies in action in the Red River Valley,” Peterson said. “I’m pleased that AWEP funds will be available to help the RRBC and local landowners address important water quality concerns related to flooding and wind erosion in western Minnesota.” AWEP is implemented through the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service as part of the Environmental Quality Incentives Program. The RRBC’s proposal will target the following strategies: 1) Sugar Beet Cover Crop Strategy, 2) Beach Ridge Erosion Reduction Strategy, 3) Restricted Flow Sediment Pool Strategy, 4) Water Flow Retardation Strategy, 5) Stream Bank Erosion Reduction Strategy, 6) Other Activities Strategy, and 7) Basin Coordination Strategy.
04.28.2009	(Detroit Lakes , Minn) - Congressman Collin Peterson announced that the Becker County Developmental Achievement Center (DAC) in Detroit Lakes has been awarded a $63,000 low-interest loan through USDA Rural Development to purchase a new bus to transport clients. “The DAC clients are an important part of the community and accessible transportation is critical to the center’s success,” Peterson said. The DAC’s old bus was not able to adequately meet the handicap accessibility needs of clients in wheel chairs. The new bus will allow the DAC to serve more clients in wheel chairs and with other special needs. The DAC serves about 75 clients with special needs each day and provides vocational rehabilitation services for local industries. There is also staff available to assist clients with activities and community integration. In 2007, Rural Development guaranteed a $437,000 loan through State Bank and Trust in Detroit Lakes to finance a 4,000 square-foot addition to the DAC’s headquarters. “The Becker County DAC provides a valuable service to its clients and businesses in the region,” said Colleen Landkamer, State Director of USDA Rural Development in Minnesota. “This funding will help the Center better meet the needs of its clients and the local businesses that use the DAC’s services.” USDA Rural Development fosters growth in homeownership, business development, and supports the creation of critical community and technology infrastructure. Further information on rural programs is available by calling the local office in Detroit Lakes at (218) 847-9392, ext. 4, or at www.rurdev.usda.gov/mn
04.28.2009	(Detroit Lakes , Minn) - U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson announced that the Roseau River East Diversion project has been allocated $4.6 million as part of the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. “In a year when the Roseau River reached its 4th highest flood stage, I think this a timely and important decision by the Corps,” Peterson said. “This project is ‘shovel ready’ and they’ve just been waiting for the funds to get construction underway.” The $4.6 million will be used to construct the railroad bridge, which is one of the first stages of the East Diversion project. “This is fantastic news for the City of Roseau ,” said Mayor Jeff Pelowski. “This project, once completed, with provide permanent protection for our flood-prone community. On behalf of the citizens, businesses and industry in Roseau , I'd like to thank Senator Amy Klobuchar and Congressman Collin Peterson for their continued hard work on our behalf. This much needed project is now one step closer to becoming a reality.” Peterson said, “I give a lot of credit to Mayor Jeff Pelowski and Community Development Coordinator Todd Peterson for their advocacy of flood protection in Roseau . Without their work, this project would not be where it’s at today.”
03.25.2009	(Washington, DC) Congressman Collin Peterson (MN-7) met with President Obama this afternoon to discuss western and northwestern Minnesota ’s ongoing battle against the dangerously swollen waters of the Red River and other rivers that are threatening communities and property throughout the region. Congressman Pomeroy and Senators Klobuchar, Conrad and Dorgan also attended the meeting. “President Obama listened to everything we told him and he assured us that we would have whatever assistance we needed,” Peterson said. “He understands the severity of the situation.”
03.17.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson, Chairman of the U.S. House Agriculture Committee, is sponsoring a meeting on community-based food systems from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. on Friday, April 17. This interactive meeting will be held in several locations throughout the Seventh Congressional District. “In my role as Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, I’ve emphasized the importance of the growing markets for organic, locally grown and sustainable agriculture as exciting new opportunities in agriculture,” Peterson said. “The purpose of this event is to share information about programs available in the 2008 Farm Bill that address these opportunities. The meeting will be held simultaneously at four locations as noted below and all locations will be connected by interactive video. Representatives from USDA Rural Development and members of the U.S. House Agriculture Committee staff will explain the various programs in detail, such as the Value Added Producers Grant, Rural Energy for America , Farmers Market Promotion Program, Sustainable Agriculture and Organic Research provisions, etc. “Local food can provide opportunities for profit for farmers and other rural entrepreneurs and main street businesses who want to participate in processing and distributing food,” Peterson said. “This is an opportunity to learn how your community can use USDA programs as engines for economic development that will benefit farmers, rural communities, development organizations, businesses, and individuals.” The meeting will be held at these locations: Southwest Minnesota State University , Marshall Conference Center, Lower Ballroom University of Minnesota, Crookston Bede Ballroom, upper level of Student Center University of Minnesota , Morris Media Services, Humanities Fine Arts Building (#58 on map) Bemidji State University Deputy Hall, Room #111 (#3 on map) There is no charge to attend this meeting. We do ask that you RSVP by registering on my website at https://collinpeterson.house.gov, by calling my Red Lake Falls District office at 218-253-4356 or via email at JoAnn.Zutz@mail.house.gov. If you need additional information about the meeting, please feel to contact my Economic Development Officer, Toni Merdan at 218-849-7344 or visit my website at https://collinpeterson.house.gov for the agenda and other materials. Downloads » Click here for the Full Agenda
01.29.2009	“In this difficult economy, many in Congress are rushing to write and pass another massive federal spending bill. In my view, what we’re considering will not solve our problems, and may in fact make matters worse. “Had this stimulus bill been limited only to programs directly resulting in job creation and infrastructure projects, and for unemployment compensation and food stamps, I might have felt comfortable voting for it. However, increasing the price tag on this massive package to include tax giveaways and additional spending on programs that have little or nothing to do with economic development is the wrong way to do this. “Every dollar added to this bill will have to be borrowed from countries like China and Japan , because we don’t have the money to pay for it ourselves. We will increase the national debt and send the bill to our children and grandchildren. This is what we’ve been doing for the last eight years and it’s got to stop. At some point, this global recession is likely to dry up the credit we’re relying on to finance these programs, and I’m afraid we will see skyrocketing interest rates that will make our economic situation even worse. “While I understand the desire for a quick fix, I cannot support those in Congress who are rushing to meet an artificial deadline that will result in more unrestrained spending in the hope that it will solve all our problems. We should be taking time to ensure thoughtful and carefully targeted allocation of the public’s money. “
06.20.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson supported a bipartisan supplemental appropriations bill that includes expansion of the GI Bill of Rights, funding for troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan , an extension of unemployment benefits, and emergency relief for areas devastated by flooding. “This new GI bill will expand education benefits for veterans and restore the promise of a full, four-year college education,” Peterson said. “We know how important the GI bill was to World War II veterans and their families. This legislation is long overdue.” More than 20,000 soldiers from Minnesota have been deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan . Current benefits pay only about 70 percent of a public college education and 30 percent of a private college education for these veterans when they return home. The expanded GI Bill will restore full, four-year college scholarships to veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars to help make them part of an economic recovery like the veterans of World War II. The legislation will also allow veterans to transfer those benefits to family members. The Supplemental Appropriations bill also included provisions to provide a 13 week extension of unemployment benefits for those workers who are unable to find a job in today’s struggling economy. The economy has lost nearly 325,000 jobs this year and 1.6 million Americans have been unemployed more than six months, despite looking for work. The legislation approved by the House also includes $161.8 billion that will support the cost of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan through the summer of 2009. “We have to financially support our troops in Iraq until we get a new administration that will address the need to get them home responsibly,” Peterson said. Also included is $2.65 billion for disaster relief in the aftermath of the devastating tornadoes and floods that hit the Midwest . “Watching the scenes of devastation in Iowa and throughout the Midwest brings back some difficult memories for so many in Northwest Minnesota . We understand too well how important these disaster relief dollars are to communities that will be making their way toward recovery,” Peterson said.
06.13.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC) – The U.S. Department of Labor last week ruled that workers at Montevideo Technology, Inc. are eligible to apply for assistance designed to address adverse effects of trade agreements that send U.S. jobs overseas. Certification to apply for Worker Adjustment Assistance (WTA) and Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (ATAA) was awarded to Montevideo Technology on June 4, and workers who have become partially or totally separated from employment on or after May 9, 2007 through June 4, 2010 are eligible to apply. After an investigation, the Department of Labor determined that there was a shift in production from Montevideo Technology, Inc. to Mexico of articles that are like or competitive with those produced by the company, which produces small, high precision electric motors. “For years I have had serious concerns about and voted against these so-called free trade agreements like NAFTA and CAFTA that are hurting our rural businesses,” Peterson said. “It makes no sense for Congress and the Administration to pass these trade agreements when they do not provide protection for workers and small businesses that have to compete with unfair labor practices around the world.” In order for employees of Montevideo Technology to be eligible for WTA and ATTA, the Department of Labor must agree that the employees lost their jobs as a result of increased imports or shifts in production out of the United States.
05.08.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson today announced an agreement on the conference report for the Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008. This farm bill will make historic investments in our food and farm economy. The bill will expand food security programs, protect our vital natural resources, promote healthier foods and local food networks, and reform commodity and biofuel programs to reflect the priorities of the nation. Final language will be available next week. Initial details include the following: Ensuring Food Security • Nutrition programs increased by $10.361 billion with appropriate benefit increases that are indexed to the cost of living • Vital assistance to food banks increased by $1.25 billion • New funding boosts organic agriculture, fruit and vegetable programs, and local food networks • Country-of-origin labeling for meat and produce made mandatory Promoting Homegrown Renewable Energy • Provides $1.1 billion to fund programs what will help the renewable energy industry invest in new technologies that use a variety of sources beyond feed grains. • Corn ethanol tax credit reduced and redirected to incentives for cellulosic ethanol • Creates a loan guarantee program and a program to encourage and develop production of dedicated energy crops • Bioenergy research increased and renewable energy programs expanded Reforming Farm Programs • Farm program safety net extended and modernized, with an updated adjusted gross income means test for commodity programs • Farm and conservation program transparency increased, with direct attribution of payments and the ending of practices that result in multiple payment eligibility • Crop insurance reformed to prevent windfall reimbursements to crop insurance companies • Budgeted standing disaster assistance program for crops stricken by catastrophic natural disasters such as drought and flood Protecting the Environment • Conservation program spending increased by $6.6 billion • Doubles funding for Farm and Ranchland Protection Program to protect agricultural lands from urban and suburban development pressure • Increases funding for Environmental Quality Incentives Program and Conservation Stewardship Program to enhance and protect our natural resources • Continues funding for Grassland Reserve and Wetlands Reserve programs • Creates an Open Fields Program to encourage public access to private land for hunting and fishing as well as a Chesapeake Bay program to help restore and protect the Bay watershed Strengthening International Food Aid • Provides $60 million to purchase food overseas to feed people in need on top of the existing Food for Peace international aid program, along with an evaluation of this change and its effect on U.S. response times • Reauthorizes the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program for infant, child, and school nutrition programs in underdeveloped countries and provides an infusion of $84 million in additional funding
05.06.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC ) – Congressman Collin Peterson today announced that the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Services (NRCS) has approved $12,913,560 of federal funds to various agricultural producers in Minnesota’s Seventh District through the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP). “This is a great example of how voluntary, incentive-based conservation can positively impact the conservation needs of our farmers, while protecting our environment. With this funding comes greater producer flexibility and allows the EQIP program to reach more of our producers,” said Peterson. EQIP funds may be used to install conservation practices that, when implemented, will correct agricultural natural resource concerns. Traditional conservation practices in Western Minnesota such as terraces, diversions, agricultural waste storage systems, field and farmstead tree plantings, livestock fencing, livestock water development and many others are eligible. In addition, incentive payments are available to encourage producers to implement nutrient management, prescribed grazing, pest management, livestock and poultry waste utilization and other agricultural conservation management techniques. 613 contracts were approved with an average EQIP cost of $21,000 per contract in the counties of Becker, Beltrami, Big Stone, Chippewa, Clay, Clearwater, Douglas, Grant, Kandiyohi, Kittson, Lac Qui Parle, Lake of the Woods, Lincoln, Lyon, Mahnomen, Marshall, McLeod, Meeker, Norman, Otter Tail, Pennington, Polk, Pope, Red Lake, Redwood, Renville, Roseau, Sibley, Stearns, Stevens, Swift, Todd, Traverse, Wilkin, and Yellow Medicine. “Our farmers are practicing conservationists and are basically matching federal EQIP funding dollar for dollar. Being such good stewards, it is important that they have the financial and technical assistance needed to maintain the profitability of their farming operations and protect the environment in rural communities," Peterson said.
04.09.2008	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) – In September of 2007, USDA designated Roseau County , and the contiguous counties of Beltrami, Kittson, Lake of the Woods, and Marshall , as a natural disaster area because of losses related to the combined effects of winterkill, due to severe cold and lack of snow cover; and early excessive rains, followed by hot, dry weather occurring during the 2007 crop year. Congressman Collin Peterson is reminding businesses in these counties that a May 1, 2008 filing deadline is approaching for federal economic injury disaster loans to businesses that were directly affected by this agriculture disaster. “If your business faced economic hardship as a direct result of this agriculture disaster, check with SBA to see if you’re eligible for a low-interest loan,” Peterson said. Economic Injury Disaster Loans are available to farm-related and nonfarm-related small businesses and small agriculture cooperatives that suffered financial losses as a direct result of the disaster. Farmers are not eligible to apply to SBA and should contact their local FSA office. Eligible small businesses may qualify for loans up to $1.5 million. These loans are available at a four percent interest rate with terms up to 30 years. The SBA will determine eligibility. Interested business owners should contact SBA directly at 800-659-2955 Monday-Friday from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Business loan applications also can be downloaded from www.sba.gov. Completed loan applications must be returned to the SBA no later than May 1, 2008.
03.03.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Space is still available for Congressman Collin Peterson’s Home Grown Economy 2008—Connecting Local Foods and Economic Opportunity conference, that will be held at the University of Minnesota Crookston campus on March 30th and 31st. “My goal in sponsoring this conference again is to explore ways in which local foods can become an economic development engine for farmers, rural communities and development organizations, and how we can all work together to meet growing market demands,” Peterson said. The Home Grown Economy conference will kick off on Sunday, March 30, at the University of Minnesota Crookston ’s Kiehle Auditorium with a local food and wine sampler showcase. The showcase will be followed by Congressman Peterson’s presentation and an array of short films and clips about local foods and their importance to the economy. The full conference will be held on Monday, March 31, at the University of Minnesota Crookston campus, and is being held in conjunction with the University of Minnesota Crookston , the Northwest and West Central Regional Sustainable Development Partnerships, the University of Minnesota Extension Service , and the Minnesota Institute of Sustainable Agriculture (MISA). The conference will include speakers addressing issues such as growth in local food economies, retail sales of local foods, and public policy matters, and will offer a showcase of exhibitors related to local foods and economic development. “In my role as Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, I’ve emphasized the importance of the growing markets for organic, locally grown and sustainable agriculture as exciting new opportunities in agriculture,” Peterson said. “I’m pleased that the House version of the Farm Bill includes the establishment of a new subcommittee to focus on organic food production and Farm Bill programs to help organic and local producers.” For more information about the Home Grown Economy conference, or to register, go to www.regionalpartnerships.umn.edu
02.08.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson yesterday voted for legislation that will tackle the high price of college tuition and remove obstacles that make it difficult for qualified students to go to college. With a strong bipartisan vote of 354 to 58, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the College Opportunity and Affordability Act (H.R. 4137), which will reform and strengthen the nation’s higher education programs to ensure that they operate in the best interests of students and families. The bill also addresses needs for rural schools facing declining enrollment and retention issues for educators and administrators. “There is recognition in this legislation that students and educators in our rural school districts are critical to our country’s workforce challenges,” Peterson said. “The grants, incentives and professional development opportunities address the challenges of our students and school districts in Minnesota ’s Seventh District.” The College Opportunity and Affordability Act will provide grants to increase enrollment of rural high school graduates in institutions of higher education, create employment pipelines from higher education institutions to the workforce, and provide training for professions of need in rural areas. The Act also will provide incentives to colleges of education to add a rural focus to their curriculum, such as the skills students need to teach in rural America and the option of completing student teaching hours in rural schools, and professional development for students, current teachers or principals to serve as school administrators in rural areas. An October 2007 report from the College Board showed that, over the previous five years, Minnesota tuition and fees at public two-year and four-year colleges grew by four percent between 2006-07 and 2007-08. This bill will address these rising costs by encouraging colleges to rein in price increases, ensuring that states maintain their commitments to higher education funding, and providing students and families with consumer friendly information on college pricing and the factors driving tuition increases. The legislation also strengthens provisions previously approved by the House to avoid conflicts of interest in the student loan programs. The new provisions include requiring better consumer disclosures and protections on private student loans. Together these protections form a Bill of Rights for college consumers, said Peterson. “Students and their families in Minnesota ’s Seventh District don’t need more obstacles to higher education,” Peterson said. “My hope is that this legislation will improve and streamline the process for everyone.” In addition, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act will: Streamline the federal student financial aid application process;Make textbook costs more manageable for students by, among other things, helping them plan for textbook expenses in advance of each semester;Allow students to receive year-round Pell Grant scholarships;Strengthen college readiness and support programs for minority and low-income students;Increase college aid and support programs for veterans and military families;Improve safety on college campuses and help schools recover and rebuild after a disaster;Ensure equal college opportunities and fair learning environments for students with disabilities; andStrengthen our nation’s workforce and economic competitiveness by boosting science, technology, and foreign language educational opportunities.The legislation is the second major step that the new Democratic Congress has taken to make college more affordable and accessible for all qualified students. Last year, Congress enacted into law a $20 billion increase in college financial aid over the next five years, the largest increase in student aid since the G.I. Bill of 1944.
10.31.2007	I have known Ed Schafer for a long time and have a good personal and professional relationship with him from his days as North Dakota ’s governor. He’s someone who understands agriculture in our part of the world, and that is a good thing. The question is whether he will have to toe the Administration’s line or whether he will be able to soften their position on issues like sugar and permanent disaster assistance. It is good to have someone from our part of the world serving as Agriculture Secretary, and I look forward to working with him.
09.25.2007	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) – Congressman Collin Peterson announced that this week marks the first ever Congressional Sportsmen’s Week, starting Monday, September 24 through Wednesday October 3. The House of Representatives will focus on issues important to the sportsmen’s community and recognize the tremendous contributions these men and women make to our economy and our communities all across the country. “As Agriculture Committee Chairman I pushed House Resolution 79, recognizing the establishment of Hunters for the Hungry programs across the United States, so that every Member of Congress would better understand the important contribution sportsmen and sportswomen who hunt make to fighting hunger,” Peterson said. Every year, millions of Americans participate in hunting and fishing activities across the U.S. In 2006 alone, an U.S. Fish and Wildlife estimated 42.5 million Americans participated in hunting and fishing activities with 30 million Americans participating in fishing and 12.5 million Americans in hunting. “As we head into the waterfowl opener this weekend, it’s clear that the economic and social impact of hunting and fishing throughout the Upper Midwest region is really tremendous. Most Members of Congress don’t know too much about hunting because they don’t do it themselves,” Peterson said. “We want Members to hear about the positive economic impact that hunters have on rural areas and the importance of the conservation efforts that they support.” Sportsmen and women play an integral role in keeping our economy strong, especially in rural areas. A previous report released by Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation, https://www.sportsmenslink.org/Sportman/, finds that economic impact of hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreation activities steer $250 billion annually to American businesses, supporting 1.6 million jobs. Over the last century, hunters and fishermen were the first and most vocal groups to champion conservation measures, and to this day they are among the strongest advocates for land and water management. President Theodore Roosevelt, an avid sportsman, understood the need to protect and conserve our natural resources. Today, hunters and fishermen not only stand for natural resource protection, but contribute financially to the American economy, specifically our rural communities. The growth of sportsmen tourism has provided an important source of revenue for rural America, and supporting the preservation of rural communities in the United States. “This new Congress has been very supportive of hunting and fishing and I will continue working to see that this continues and that the various contributions my fellow sportsmen and sportswomen make to our state and our nation continue to be recognized,” Peterson said. The bills that were passed by the House on Monday are: H. Res. 634 – A bill encouraging participation in hunting and fishing, and supporting the goals and ideals of National Hunting and Fishing Day and the efforts of hunters and fishermen toward the scientific management of wildlife and conservation of the natural environment. H. Con. Res. 193 – A bill recognizing all hunters across the United States for their continued commitment to safety. H. Res. 79 – A bill recognizing the establishment of Hunters for the Hungry programs across the United States and the contributions of those programs efforts to decrease hunger and help feed those in need.
09.21.2007	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) – Congressman Collin Peterson announced that Midwest Minnesota Community Development Corporation is the recipient of a $180,000 federal award through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. MMCDC will use the funds to assist a Native American nonprofit, Sah-Kah-Tay Indigenous Preservation Society, on the White Earth Reservation. Sah-Kah-Tay will use the funds for acquisition of the Gii Wa Din Learning Center for Traditional Sustainable Living. The Learning Center will serve as the base for a day labor program as well as an affordable housing construction program. “This funding helps to build better communities by investing in housing and jobs, and will be a real asset to people living on the Reservation,” Peterson said. “I’m pleased to see MMCDC and Dr. Kangas continuing their good work for housing and economic development throughout the region.” “To encourage job creation and individual asset-building on the Reservation, it is important to invest in innovative nonprofits such as Sah-Kah-Tay,” said Dr. Arlen Kangas, MMCDC president. “We thank the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Congressman Collin Peterson, and others for their support and investment in this market.” The award was part of a $16.8 million total grant award by HUD for economic and housing development in rural areas nationwide. “These grants will go a long way toward producing more affordable housing in rural communities across our country,” said HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson. “HUD funding, and the private investment these grants will generate, will offer more than just an affordable home to working families in rural areas. These grants will trigger economic development and breathe new life into rural neighborhoods that are desperate to grow.” Midwest Minnesota Community Development Corporation is a private, nonprofit company providing community, business and housing development services in underserved markets of Minnesota. Its mission is to increase quality of life for individuals and communities. ### Note: Sah-Kah-Tay is an interesting feature story. They can be reached via Jamie Marks Erickson, MMCDC, 218-847-3191.
09.20.2007	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) – Congressman Collin Peterson announced that Otter Tail Ag Enterprises, LLC, and Buffalo Meat Inc., both of Fergus Falls, have been awarded USDA Rural Development Value-Added Producer grants. “I applaud the efforts of these businesses and others who are working to promote their products that are locally grown, or locally produced,” Peterson said. “The Value-added producer grant program is a big help to ag-related businesses in rural Minnesota.” Otter Tail Ag Enterprises is currently constructing an ethanol plant, and will receive a $300,000 grant to expand the market for ethanol and distillers grains by producing and marketing 55 million gallons of ethanol and 175,000 tons of distiller’s grains per year. Buffalo Meat Inc. is the wholesale marketing company of Buffalo Pass Ranch, and also will receive a $300,000 grant to help offset the costs of expanding into direct sales of Minnesota buffalo meat. They will be expanding markets for bison products such as burger, sausage, steaks, roasts and jerky. Value-added producer grants may be used for planning activities and for working capital for marketing value-added agricultural products and for farm-based renewable energy. Eligible applicants are independent producers, farmer and rancher cooperatives, agricultural producer groups, and majority-controlled producer-based business ventures.
09.10.2007	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) – Congressman Collin Peterson and Congressman Jim Oberstar announced a $398,436 grant to Lakeland Public Television from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development program. The station, serving northern Minnesota, covers news in both Oberstar and Peterson’s districts, and is the only public television station in Minnesota to provide a nightly newscast. “Lakeland Public Television is a tremendous asset to viewers in north-central Minnesota,” Peterson said. “From local news and weather to televised candidate debates, the station offers an important public service and is very deserving of this funding that will allow it to upgrade its equipment.” “Lakeland Public Television is committed to a high standard of journalistic excellence,” said Oberstar. “We need to support public television stations that are working hard to provide service to their communities. Without this help from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development program, many rural stations would not be able to convert to the new high-definition digital technology.” Federal law requires that all television stations convert to new high-definition broadcast equipment by February of 2009. Lakeland PTV is based in Bemidji but provides coverage in Brainerd and Wadena with translator towers. Its total coverage is 7,500 square miles, serving 383,000 people.
09.07.2007	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) – Congressman Collin Peterson today voted for final passage of legislation to make the largest investment in college financial aid since the 1944 GI Bill. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act will help millions of students and families pay for college at no new cost to taxpayers. The bill now goes to the President’s desk for his signature. “Improving financial aid is one of the more significant achievements of this Congress,” Peterson said. “I can’t think of a better way to help students and their families as they try to figure out how to pay for their education.” The College Cost Reduction and Access Act would boost college financial aid by more than $20 billion over the next five years. The bill pays for itself by reducing excessive federal subsidies paid to lenders in the college loan industry by $20.9 billion. It also includes $750 million in federal budget deficit reduction. Under the legislation, the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship would increase by $1,090 over the next five years, reaching $5,400 by 2012. This increase would fully restore the purchasing power of the scholarship, which in recent years had been frozen at $4,050 until Congress boosted its value to $4,310 earlier this year. In Minnesota, more than 67,000 students take out need-based loans each year at 4-year public schools, and more than 76,000 students receive a Pell Grant. To reduce the cost of loans for millions of student borrowers, the legislation would cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans, from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent over the next four years. Once fully phased-in, this would save the typical student borrower – with $13,800 in need-based student loan debt – $4,400 over the life of the loan. About 6.8 million students take out need-based loans each year. “High interest rates on student loans have been a problem for many who are trying to pay back them back. Cutting interest rates is a major move in the right direction and I think students will be very grateful for this change down the road,” Peterson said. The legislation also would prevent student borrowers from facing unmanageable levels of federal student debt by guaranteeing that borrowers will never have to spend more than 15 percent of their yearly discretionary income on loan repayments and by allowing borrowers in economic hardship to have their loans forgiven after 25 years. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act includes a number of other provisions that would ease the financial burden imposed on students and families by the cost of college, including: Tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation’s public schools; Loan forgiveness after 10 years of public service and loan repayment for college graduates that go into vital public service jobs; Landmark investments in Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions and other minority serving institutions; and Strategies to help colleges contain costs and make online information on college costs for students and parents more user friendly. President Franklin Roosevelt signed the GI Bill into law in 1944. The original law enabled 7.8 million veterans of World War II to participate in education or job training programs.
08.13.2007	(Washington, DC)– In a letter sent to Army Secretary Geren, Representatives Tim Walz and Collin Peterson, as well as four other members of the Minnesota Congressional delegation, expressed their concern that some members of the 1/34th Brigade Combat Team (BCT) of the Minnesota National Guard are not able to receive full GI Bill benefits despite their extended tour of duty in Iraq. The letter, which Walz and Peterson circulated among their colleagues after hearing of the problem from the Minnesota National Guard, states “We are deeply concerned that the soldiers of the 1/34th BCT of the Minnesota National Guard are not all able to receive Active Component GI Bill benefits,” and asks the Army Secretary to take action to ensure that all members of the unit will be able to receive their full benefits. In order to qualify for full, Active Component educational benefits under the GI bill, soldiers must serve at least 22 months on Active Duty and must be ordered to Active Duty for 730 days or longer. Walz and Peterson said that 1,162 of the unit’s soldiers meet the 22-month deployment requirement, but fall short of the 730 day requirement. “When I first learned of this issue, I could not believe that the brave members of this unit were not all able to receive full GI Bill benefits,” Walz said. “These dedicated men and women have sacrificed 22 months of their lives in service to their state and country and they deserve every service-related educational benefit the federal government has to offer. I look forward to Army Secretary Geren’s response and I will continue to fight to ensure these soldiers receive the benefits they are entitled to.” The soldiers of the 1/34th BCT recently returned from a lengthy deployment in Iraq, which was the longest continuous tour of any U.S. ground combat unit in the Iraq War. “Our National Guard soldiers have served longer than any ground combat unit in this war, and this discrepancy in their GI Bill benefits is not acceptable,” Peterson said. “The Army needs to take action on this matter immediately.” The text of the letter follows. The Honorable Preston M. Geren, IIISecretary of the ArmyOffice of the Secretary of the Army101 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310-0101 Dear Secretary Geren: We are deeply concerned that the soldiers of the 1/34th Brigade Combat Team (BCT) of the Minnesota National Guard are not all able to receive Active Component GI Bill benefits and seem to lack a coherent set of orders. These soldiers have recently returned home from a 22 month mobilization, including a 16 month deployment to Iraq. Their tour, which was extended due to the President’s surge strategy, was the longest of any ground combat unit during Operation Iraqi Freedom. Nearly half of the unit’s 2,600 Minnesotan soldiers either qualify or nearly qualify for the Active Component GI Bill entitlements. These soldiers meet the 22-month deployment and MOS requirements. However, 1,162 of the unit’s soldiers fall just a few days short of the 730 day requirement. We feel the issue arose when the units had their orders amended due to the extension. Different elements of the same unit had different numbers of days listed on their orders –some orders were for 730 days and some were not – even though they were all deployed together. It is our hope that you can reissue a new set of orders to those soldiers who do not meet the 730 day requirement. We are confident that this particular issue can be resolved through action by your office, and that all members of the 1/34th BCT can be made eligible for the full active component educational benefits. We urge you to address this matter in a timely fashion, and to take action to ensure that Guard and Reserve members returning home from extended deployments in Iraq receive all the benefits to which they are entitled. Thank you for your careful consideration of this matter. Sincerely, Collin C. Peterson, Member of CongressTim Walz, Member of CongressJim Oberstar, Member of CongressBetty McCollum, Member of CongressKeith Ellison, Member of CongressMichelle Bachmann, Member of Congress
07.11.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)—U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson announced that the Bemidji State University Nursing program has received a three-year, $750,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to implement funding for the Department of Nursing, help secure the director position for the four-year track, fund supplies and equipment, and assist with expanding the number of faculty. “I couldn’t be more pleased that BSU was able to get the funding for this important program,” Peterson said. “This proposal to expand their nursing program was something that I was eager to support from day one.” The DHHS grant comes through the Health Resources and Services Administration, and will allow BSU to begin their four-year nursing program in the fall of 2007. The award also will help the university to improve nursing education access for rural and American Indian students and prepare nurses for work in rural areas. “If we educate our students in our rural communities, I think there’s an even greater chance that they’ll stay here,” Peterson said. “As our population ages, people living in our rural areas are going to rely more and more on a younger workforce to take care of them” Dean of the College of Social and Natural Sciences Dr. Ranae Womack said, “Our thanks to Minnesota Congressman Collin Peterson and his staff, and Dr. Kathleen Annette and the Indian Health Service Area Office for their support. I am also grateful for the efforts of Jeanne Larson and the significant contributions of Gwen Verchota and the faculty members of the Department of Nursing who have made this program possible. The support of our Academic Vice President/Provost, Joann Fredrickson, was critically important.” The new baccalaureate program will augment BSU’s nationally accredited registered nurse completion program and will have a goal of enrolling a total of 250 nurses each year once the program has ramped up to full capacity in four years.
06.27.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)—U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson announced that the Giziibii Resource Conservation & Development Council in Bemidji has been awarded $229,700 for a Demonstration & Evaluation of Burning Waste Streams Project from the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service 2007 Conservation Innovation Grants Awards. The project will evaluate biomass produced on two demonstration farms and burned in a low-water use gasification system for the production of syngas to generate electricity. This power will be used at the Northern Excellence seed processing facility in Williams, Minnesota. “Gasification is a proven technology, but it is fairly new in the United States for smaller-scale operations,” Peterson said. “This is exactly the kind of funding that Congress should be providing to address the need for more renewable energy.” Northern Excellence Seed will be part of one of the first commercialized applications of smaller-scale biomass in the United States, and they will replace their electrical demand through gasification of waste products. Northern Excellence Seed, LLC is a producer-owned cooperative made up of 30 members. All of these producers are eligible for EQIP. Installation of a 100-kilowatt gasifier at the Northern Excellence Seed, LLC will produce an estimated 744,600-kilwatts per year. Biomass sources include 2 million pounds of seed screenings per year from Northern Excellence Seed, LLC and producers growing perennial energy crops within a reasonable distance from the seed plant. Gasification of biomass for electricity is a proven technology. Long-term use and available demonstration sites are not readily available however. This project will resolve these issues and provide vital information to producers considering the value of perennial energy crops. The energy produced will improve atmospheric air quality in multiple ways. Perennial grass crops have been shown to capture and store carbon dioxide. These carbon sequestrations along with the replacement of coal generated electricity to a renewable energy source are the primary purposes of this project.
06.19.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC) –U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn) reminded passport applicants who paid an extra $60 to get their passports expedited but didn’t get them in time that they can request a refund of that fee. “The State Department sorely underestimated their ability to address the onslaught of passport applications they received after requiring passports for travel to Canada and Mexico,” Peterson said. “It’s clear that the agency didn’t provide a service that many paid extra for, and they are ready to issue refunds.” Applicants who paid the $60 expedite fee, and have reason to believe they did not receive expedited service, should write to the Department of State to request that they consider a refund of the expedite fee at: Department of StatePassport Services/PPS/Refunds2100 Pennsylvania Ave NWWashington, DC 20037-3202 Customers should submit a written request with their passport number, if available, name, date and place of birth and approximate date(s) they applied for their passport and received their passport (if applicable). Mailing address and phone number should also be included. The Department cannot refund passport application and execution fees or compensate applicants for missed travel.
06.12.2007	(Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Tim Walz and House Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson introduced the Wind Energy Promotion Act, which will make it easier for individuals and small groups to take advantage of tax incentives that encourage wind energy production. Walz, a freshman member of the Agriculture Committee, said he heard about the need for the legislation while he was holding a series of Farm Bill forums throughout southern Minnesota in February and April. “Raising capital for wind energy projects is difficult, because many residents of rural America do not qualify for the Renewable Energy Production Tax Credit (PTC), which is one of the major incentives to promote wind energy production,” said Walz. “This legislation will expand renewable energy production by leveling the playing field for individuals in rural America who are looking to enter the industry. Everyone wins if we pass this legislation.” “We think it is unfortunate that our tax code makes it easy for corporations to receive the Production Tax Credit, but not for individuals in rural America who wish to do the same,” said Chairman Peterson. “I’m pleased to join Congressman Walz in introducing this legislation to make our tax code fairer and to bring the benefits of renewable energy investments to more of our rural citizens.” Currently, the PTC provides a 1.9 cent-per-kilowatt-hour tax credit for individuals who invest in wind energy generation. However, only passive income—such as income from investments—may be offset by the PTC; someone who merely invests in a wind farm cannot receive the PTC unless they have other sources of passive income to offset. The practical effect of this passive loss restriction is that currently, PTCs are only useful to corporations and to individuals with large amounts of taxable investment income. As a result, most wind energy investments today are made by foreign multi-national companies and not by groups of Americans who want to join together to produce renewable energy. The Walz-Peterson Wind Energy Promotion Act would make it easier for Americans to invest in wind energy projects by expanding the eligibility of who can receive benefits from the Renewable Energy Production Tax Credit. This legislation would not limit the ability of the current beneficiaries of the PTCs to continue receiving them. The Wind Energy Promotion Act would amend the tax code to allow up to $40,000 of the PTC to be used against ordinary income. This “passive loss exemption” is similar to a $25,000 passive loss exemption that currently exists to encourage investments in oil and gas development and real estate. The Wind Energy Promotion Act also addresses the relationship of the PTC to the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). Because allowing the PTC to apply to ordinary income will force some middle-class taxpayers to file for the AMT, this legislation would change the tax law to eliminate the effect of the AMT on income derived from using the PTC.
05.04.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC) – U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson announced that Tracy Kid’s World has been awarded a $100,000 grant, and a $1.12 million loan from USDA Rural Development to build a new daycare facility in Tracy, Minn. “Working families in the Tracy area will now have another great option for childcare,” Peterson said. “Expanding childcare options are critical to rural communities that seek to attract families.” Louise Noomen, who spearheaded this project while working for the Tracy Economic Development Authority, said that one of the first questions asked by new employees moving to the Tracy area, or by employers wishing to expand, was typically about the availability of childcare in the community. “The Tracy EDA recognized that if additional childcare could be provided for working families it would be an important part of the overall picture when looking at economic development in our community and the surrounding area,” said Noomen. Noomen is now employed by Tracy Kid’s World as the Director. The facility will have a defined curriculum program for all ages served at the center with the goal of having those children served at the center ready for kindergarten. When completed, the 11,000 square foot facility will offer community pre-school, Head Start Services, and an after-school program. The project will be funded under USDA Rural Development’s Community Facility Loan and Grant Program. The loan terms are for 40 years at 4.125 percent.
04.11.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Collin Peterson today announced that the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Services (NRCS) has approved $11,880,641 of federal funds to various agricultural producers in Minnesota’s Seventh District through the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP). “This is a great example of how the voluntary, incentive-based conservation provisions of the 2002 Federal Farm Bill can positively impact the conservation needs of our farmers, while protecting our environment. With this funding comes greater producer flexibility and allows the EQIP program to reach more of our producers,” said Peterson. EQIP funds may be used to install conservation practices that, when implemented, will correct agricultural natural resource concerns. Traditional conservation practices in Western Minnesota such as terraces, diversions, agricultural waste storage systems, field and farmstead tree plantings, livestock fencing, livestock water development and many others are eligible. In addition, incentive payments are available to encourage producers to implement nutrient management, prescribed grazing, pest management, livestock and poultry waste utilization and other agricultural conservation management techniques. 914 EQIP contracts were approved with an average cost of $13,000 per contract in the counties of Becker, Beltrami, Big Stone, Chippewa, Clay, Clearwater, Douglas, Grant, Kandiyohi, Kittson, Lac qui Parle, Lake of the Woods, Lincoln, Lyon, Mahnomen, Marshall, McLeod, Meeker, Norman, Pennington, Pope, Red Lake, Redwood, Renville, Roseau, Sibley, Stevens, Swift, Todd, Traverse, West Polk, Wilkin, and Yellow Medicine for a total of $11,880,641. The total EQIP dollars approved across the state was $25.6 million. “Our farmers are practicing conservationists and are basically matching federal EQIP funding dollar for dollar. Being such good stewards, it is important that they have the financial and technical assistance needed to maintain the profitability of their farming operations and at the same time protecting our environment and supporting sustainable rural communities, “Peterson said.
03.20.2007	(Washington, D.C) – At the request of Congressman Collin Peterson, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has released the Breckenridge, MN project for Army Corps of Engineers funding. “This is a huge hurdle for the City of Breckenridge to get over,” Peterson said. “After years of requesting that OMB take another look at this, they finally saw that this was a much needed project. With Corps funding Breckenridge will be able to plan ahead and really get this project moving.” In 2000, the Breckenridge flood control project was authorized in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). However, the project hit a hurdle when the OMB considered it to be a new project and denied the ACOE the ability to fund the project through its own budgeting process. As a result, Breckenridge had to rely on the annual Congressional appropriations process for funding, which only awards enough money that a project can spend in a given year. “Although we’ve been successful in getting money for the Breckenridge flood control project each year, it has only been able to inch by with minimal funding,” Peterson said. Since 2003, Peterson has been diligently requesting that OMB take another look at this project. After several inquiries and a phone call to Administrator Rob Portman, OMB finally determined that the Breckenridge project is consistent with other flood control projects in Minnesota and released it from its funding prohibition. Now the ACOE can put the Breckenridge project in their budget and the City will not have to rely on the Congressional appropriations process for funding. Rep. Peterson is determined to finish this project as soon as possible. He has requested $4 million in the appropriations process for the city and will continue to ask the ACOE to fund this project. “The risk of flooding every year is too great and I hope the Corps is able to recognize the importance of this project and put the necessary funding in place to finish it.”
03.19.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Flood control project requests for Roseau, Ada, Borup, Granite Falls, Crookston, Marsh Creek, and Hutchinson have passed the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “We don’t always get what we ask for, so I’m pleased that all these requests were authorized by the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee,” Peterson said. “This is great news for all these communities and areas that are working so diligently in their efforts to prevent future flood disasters.” The requests were included in the Water Resources and Development Act (WRDA) of 2007. WRDA is the authorizing bill for the Army Corp of Engineers and is supposed to be reauthorized every two years in order to update their project, but it has been seven years since the last WRDA bill. Since that time the Seventh Congressional District has seen many natural disasters such as the 2000 floods in Roseau, Ada, and Borup; the landslides in Crookston; and the annual risk of flooding on the Red River Basin, including Granite Falls, which is still recovering from the 1997 floods. This is only the first step in the process; WRDA will now have to pass the full House and Senate. “My hope is that these requests will remain in the bill throughout the process and that Congress will finally pass this legislation into law,” Peterson said. The WRDA bill authorizes funding for the Roseau River flood control project, for flood control projects in Crookston and Granite Falls, for Marsh Creek's Site Six water retention program, and for Ada's and Borup's feasibility studies.
02.28.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC) – After winter weather forced postponement, Congressman Collin Peterson announced that The Home Grown Economy: Foods from Local Farms as an Economic Development Tool conference has been rescheduled for Monday, April 2, 2007. The conference will be held on April 2, at the University of Minnesota , Morris, and is being held in conjunction with the University of Minnesota , the Minnesota Institute of Sustainable Agriculture, Northwest and West Central Regional Sustainable Development Partnership, U of M Morris, U of M Extension Service, and the West Central Research and Outreach Center . There is a limited amount of space left, and registrations will be taken online at: https://www.regionalpartnerships.umn.edu/ “We’re seeing a demand for more locally grown foods available in grocery stores, and also for consumption in restaurants, schools and hospitals,” Peterson said. “There are opportunities to keep our local economy strong by using farmers to supply their neighbors with food directly. “Localized supply chains, or new value chains, can provide opportunities for profit for rural entrepreneurs and main street businesses that want to participate in processing and distribution of food. My goal in sponsoring this conference is to provide an opportunity to learn about and explore how these new value chains can become an economic development engine for our communities.”
02.16.2007	(Washington, DC) – Reps. Collin Peterson (D-MN), Donald Manzullo (R-IL), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), and John M. McHugh (R-NY), introduced a bill to fix the travel restrictions included in the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) that have the potential to harm businesses and communities along the Canadian border. The legislation, known as the Protecting American Commerce and Travel Act, or PACT Act, has the support of the Travel Industry of America, US Chamber of Commerce and Travel Business Roundtable. “In my district, commerce doesn’t stop at the border. For the sake of businesses and their employees who rely on ease of access, this legislation is critical,” Rep. Peterson said. “The PACT Act is a responsible and safe way for Homeland Security to protect our border without harming commerce and tourism.” Rep. Manzullo said, “There is a crisis looming at our Northern Border. The WHTI, if handled incorrectly, will drive a wedge between the United States and our largest trading partner and closest ally. The PACT Act assures that the Departments of Homeland Security and State promulgate a regulation that will provide greater protection to our homeland while still facilitating legitimate travel and commerce.” BACKGROUND: Highlights of the PACT Act include, but are not limited to: Requires that DHS complete at least one pilot project to determine if a state may enhance their driver’s license to meet WHTI standards.Exempts US/Canadian children 16 and younger from the WHTI documentary requirements, and encourages flexibility for school groups.Sets the cost of the PASS card at $20 for the first year of issuance in order to encourage early compliance while requiring that card to be received within 10 business days after the State Department has received the application.Expands and improves frequent traveler programs for low-risk travelers (NEXUS) and commercial drivers (FAST). In September 2006, Congress extended the WHTI land and sea implementation deadline from January 2008 to June 2009. Given the importance of cross-border travel and trade to the economic vitality of both the US and Canada, it is imperative that DHS and State not push forward with an ill-advised WHTI plan.
01.12.2007	"I am disappointed and frustrated to learn that the Minnesota National Guard troops are having their tour extended to July." "This is another example of how the men and women of the National Guard are being over-utilized in the war. Our soldiers' families and employers were counting on seeing them home again in March. It is unfair and unnecessary." "The President's new strategy appears to be his same old 'stay the course' message wrapped in a couple of different slogans." "I know that as long as our troops are in Iraq they will carry out their duties in a professional manner, but I do hope that the military leadership will work to modify this order and allow the troops to come home sooner than July. We do not need more casualties."
01.12.2007	(WASHINGTON , DC ) – In an effort to address and explore how local foods can be an economic development engine for rural communities, Congressman Collin Peterson announced today that he is sponsoring a conference called The Home Grown Economy: Foods from Local Farms as an Economic Development Tool. “We’re seeing a demand for more locally grown foods available in grocery stores, and also for consumption in restaurants, schools and hospitals,” Peterson said. “There are opportunities to keep our local economy strong by using farmers to supply their neighbors with food directly. “Localized supply chains, or new value chains, can provide opportunities for profit for rural entrepreneurs and main street businesses that want to participate in processing and distribution of food. My goal in sponsoring this conference is to provide an opportunity to learn about and explore how these new value chains can become an economic development engine for our communities.” The conference will be held on February 26, at the University of Minnesota , Morris, and is being held in conjunction with the University of Minnesota , the Minnesota Institute of Sustainable Agriculture, Northwest and West Central Regional Sustainable Development Partnership, U of M Morris, U of M Extension Service, and the West Central Research and Outreach Center. For more information about the conference, or to register, go to www.regionalpartnerships.umn.edu -30-
01.12.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC) – In an effort to address and explore how local foods can be an economic development engine for rural communities, Congressman Collin Peterson announced today that he is sponsoring a conference called The Home Grown Economy: Foods from Local Farms as an Economic Development Tool. “We’re seeing a demand for more locally grown foods available in grocery stores, and also for consumption in restaurants, schools and hospitals,” Peterson said. “There are opportunities to keep our local economy strong by using farmers to supply their neighbors with food directly. “Localized supply chains, or new value chains, can provide opportunities for profit for rural entrepreneurs and main street businesses that want to participate in processing and distribution of food. My goal in sponsoring this conference is to provide an opportunity to learn about and explore how these new value chains can become an economic development engine for our communities.” The conference will be held on February 26, at the University of Minnesota , Morris, and is being held in conjunction with the University of Minnesota , the Minnesota Institute of Sustainable Agriculture, Northwest and West Central Regional Sustainable Development Partnership, U of M Morris, U of M Extension Service, and the West Central Research and Outreach Center. For more information about the conference, or to register, go to www.regionalpartnerships.umn.edu
05.25.2006	(Detroit Lakes, Minn) – Congressman Collin Peterson announced that the City of Bemidji and the Bemidji Development Corporation will receive $1.2 million from the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration to expand the city’s Industrial Park. The Industrial Park expansion will encompass roughly 68 acres, and will create 38 new industrial-use lots. The improvements will serve an adjacent 51.49-acre parcel as well. “Bemidji’s economy is growing, and this industrial park expansion shows a community that is thinking ahead and preparing for the future,” Peterson said. “With the cooperation of the city and the Bemidji Development Corporation, and the hard work of the Headwaters Regional Development Commission, this important project will move forward.” The funds will be used to install water, sewer, street, curb, lighting, and storm sewer improvements in the most recent expansion of the Industrial Park, south of Carr Lake Road. The improvements will run along 30th street between Cram and Herrington Avenues, along the entire length of Herrington Avenue, and along Corrigan Avenue between Cram and Herrington Avenue – directly adjacent to the existing Industrial Park. The grant application was written by the HRDC with assistance from City Staff. The announcement from EDA indicated that they anticipate 370 jobs to be created with this expansion. Along with the EDA grant, infrastructure expansion will be paid for using $498, 295 in grant funds from the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Developments, $292,711 in city utility funds, and $777,505 from the Bemidji Development Corporation. Based upon the history of the existing Industrial Park, it is estimated that over 300 new jobs will be created by this Industrial Park Expansion. Furthermore, it is anticipated that private sector investment will total more than $60,000,000 as a result of this expansion. Originally developed in 1974, the existing Industrial Park has undergone three expansions and presently contains more than 175 acres. A 2007 study of the existing Industrial Park revealed that the Park currently houses 42 businesses who employ more than 1,250 people. The gross annual payroll exceeds $28,000,000.
