01.10.2019	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEChairman Thompson on First Missed Paycheck Tomorrow for DHS and Other Federal Employees January 10, 2019 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the Trump shutdown and 800,000 federal employees who will be missing their first paycheck tomorrow: “Tomorrow, nearly a million federal employees will miss their first paycheck of the year because the President has decided to throw a temper tantrum and hold the federal government hostage over his ridiculous demand for an ineffective, wasteful border wall. Over 200,000 employees at DHS – charged with protecting our skies, waterways, and borders – will also not be paid while still working.” “Because of the President’s childish behavior, families will face difficulties paying rent, keeping the lights on, and putting food on the dinner table. He should not be treating them like pawns in his pathetic pursuit to fulfill an absurd campaign promise. Simply put, he is ignoring his oath of office by forcing the government to stay closed while refusing to work with Democrats. This absurd charade has gone on for far too long – it’s time for the President to end this needless shutdown.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.08.2019	Chairman Thompson: Sowing Fear, Trump Lies Directly to American People January 8, 2019 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on President Trump’s primetime address on border security and immigration: “As predicted, the President’s address tonight was nothing more than the fearmongering and lies we have come to expect from him. Besides what the President’s own terrible policies have created, there is simply NO emergency at the border. A wall is not the solution to the crime and tragedy he describes. A wall will not stop the flow of illegal drugs he talks about, which overwhelmingly come through legal ports of entry. A wall is ineffective and a waste of taxpayer dollars.” “I see no indication tonight that the President is willing to negotiate in good faith. It is time he realizes the harm caused by his needless shutdown and works with Democrats to reopen the government.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.08.2019	House Passes Extension of Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Program January 8, 2019 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 251, the “Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards Program Extension Act.” This bipartisan legislation is a two-year extension of the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards, or CFATS program. Under CFATS, DHS works with the owners and operators of our nation’s highest risk chemical facilities to ensure those facilities have adequate security measures in place. The program is set to expire next week. Despite broad support from Republicans, Democrats, and industry alike – CFATS is at risk of lapsing and the Chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee has suggested letting it expire. In a letter last fall, the Secretary of Homeland urged Congress to pass a short-term authorization to prevent “increase[ed] risk to the country” “It is critically important that we ensure our nation’s chemical facilities are kept safe from terrorist threats,” Chairman Thompson said. “CFATS has made the U.S. demonstrably safer. Since the program was created, the number of chemical facilities in our country designated as ‘high risk’ has dropped by half.” “I strongly urge Senator Johnson and his colleagues in the Senate to follow the bipartisan path we’ve set in the House and pass this legislation. Extending CFATS will giving us time to work together improve the program while still keeping Americans safe. We cannot allow this critical national security program to expire and make all Americans more vulnerable because of petty partisan politics.” Full floor statement # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.08.2019	For Immediate Release Contacts: January 8, 2019 Erin Hatch (Ways & Means) 202-225-4021 Eric Hersey (Financial Services) 202-225-4247 Tim Mulvey (Foreign Affairs) 202-226-9103 Patrick Boland (HPSCI) 202-225-4176 Aryele Bradford (Oversight) 202-226-5181 Daniel Schwarz (Judiciary) 202-225-5635 Adam Comis (Homeland Security) 202-225-9978 HOUSE CHAIRS DEMAND ANSWERS ON SANCTIONS RELIEF FOR RUSSIAN OLIGARCH Lawmakers Call on Mnuchin to Delay Action Pending Congressional Briefing Washington—The chairs of seven committees in the House of Representatives today are calling on the Trump Administration to explain the easing of sanctions on businesses tied to Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska. In response to a December 19, 2018 notification that the Treasury Department intends to terminate sanctions against three companies tied to Deripaska, the lawmakers wrote Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin requesting a briefing for Members of Congress and a postponement of the sanctions termination until Members’ questions are resolved. The letter was signed by Chairman Richard E. Neal of the House Committee on Ways and Means; Chairwoman Maxine Waters of the Committee on Financial Services; Chairman Eliot L. Engel of the Committee on Foreign Affairs; Chairman Adam B. Schiff of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence; Chairman Elijah E. Cummings of the Committee on Oversight and Reform; Chairman Jerrold Nadler of the Committee on the Judiciary; and Chairman Bennie G. Thompson of the Committee on Homeland Security. “The notification to Congress was delivered just prior to an adjournment for an extended recess and during which time a government shutdown ensued, which makes it difficult to complete our review of this matter within the 30-day period provided in CAATSA,” wrote the Members. “We request that you be available for a meeting with all interested Members, in an appropriate setting to allow for a full discussion of all aspects of the agreement, the sanctions termination and the impact these decisions would have on the U.S. effort to end Russia’s malign activities aimed at our country.” Full text of the letter follows and can be found here. Dear Secretary Mnuchin: We write in response to a December 19th notification to Congress indicating that the Treasury Department intends to terminate sanctions on Rusal, EN+ and EuroSibEnergo, as part of a deal with Oleg Deripaska, a Russian oligarch who has abetted the Putin Regime’s malign activity against the United States. As the Chairs of committees with oversight jurisdiction over the U.S. response to Russia’s attempts to interfere in our elections and other hostile actions, we have a number of concerns about the agreement that the U.S. has reached with Mr. Deripaska. The Terms of Removal focus on restructuring Mr. Deripaska’s relationship with EN+, Rusal, and ESE, the altered governance structure of EN+ and Rusal, and enhanced reporting requirements. However, the agreement appears to keep intact significant ownership of EN+ by Mr. Deripaska, while reportedly transferring some shares and financial interests to the Kremlin-linked sanctioned Russian bank VTB. There are a number of additional questions that we and other Members of Congress must pursue in order to fully assess whether the U.S. agreement and the sanctions terminations are justified. We also note that the notification to Congress was delivered just prior to an adjournment for an extended recess and during which time a government shutdown ensued, which makes it difficult to complete our review of this matter within the 30-day period provided in CAATSA. We request that you be available for a meeting with all interested Members, in an appropriate setting to allow for a full discussion of all aspects of the agreement, the sanctions termination, and the impact that these decisions would have on the U.S. effort to end Russia’s malign activities aimed at our country. Further, we request that the Treasury Department delay the implementation of the sanctions termination to allow sufficient time for you to fully brief Members on this matter and to resolve the pending questions. We would appreciate fulfillment of this request by no later than the close of business on Friday, January 11, 2019. Sincerely, Richard E. Neal Chairman Ways and Means Committee Maxine Waters Chairwoman Financial Services Committee Eliot Engel Chairman Foreign Affairs Committee Adam B. Schiff Chairman Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Elijah E. Cummings Chairman Committee on Oversight and Reform Jerrold Nadler Chairman Committee on the Judiciary Bennie G. Thompson Chairman Committee on Homeland Security # # #
01.08.2019	Ten Questions for DHS on the Trump Shutdown January 8, 2019 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following list of unanswered questions regarding the functioning of the Department of Homeland Security as a result of a lapse in appropriations. The Administration has failed to be forthcoming about the security implications of the President's shutdown on DHS, the largest federal department subject to the shutdown. During the shutdown, is TSA continuing its vital work to assess security at foreign airports—where, unlike the southern border, terrorists attempted to launch attacks? What, if any, protections are in place to ensure that, during the shutdown, TSA continues to carry out its vital security function in the face of terrorist attack, inadequate staffing levels, or some other significant security issue? What impact is the shutdown having on TSA's ability to follow through on planned purchasing of improved airport screening machines? Are CBP and ICE still able to fully vet and screen passengers traveling to the United States during the shutdown? Are CBP and ICE programs to communicate with international partners to ensure that foreign travelers and visa applicants are thoroughly vetted fully operational during the lapse in funding? Is the Coast Guard falling behind on efforts to ensure its aging vessels are replaced to ensure our waterways and sea borders are effectively protected? What impact has the shutdown had on FEMA's ability to plan for continual extreme weather after record devastation in 2017 and 2018? Is the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office able to share bioterrorism and nuclear threat information with state and local officials? Is the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) still inspecting high-risk chemical facilities urging the shutdown? Is CISA able to perform cybersecurity risk and vulnerability assessments for the Federal government, critical infrastructure owners and operators, and state election agencies? Chairman Thompson released the following statement on the state of the shutdown: “Trump’s needless shutdown could soon become the longest shutdown in our nation’s history, with consequences still unknown. Almost three weeks into this calculated crisis and we still do not know what DHS is doing to ensure the safety and security of the American people while it is operating without funds. With each passing day, the effective functioning of key homeland security operations are imperiled. The President must put the country first and put his ego aside. It’s time he reopen the government.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.07.2019	Chairman Thompson Inquires on Shutdown Effects on TSA January 7, 2019 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, sent a letter to the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to request more information on the security and workforce effects the government shutdown is having on the agency: Letter excerpt: On Friday, CNN reported that hundreds of TSA officers from at least four major airports called out from work last week. As you are aware, TSA officers are required to work without pay during the shutdown. Despite providing essential government services, TSA officers are among the lowest paid Federal employees, with many living paycheck-to-paycheck. Officers may not be able to pay for rent, child care, and other necessities if their paychecks do not arrive on time. The fact that the overwhelming majority of officers have reported for duty without fail in the face of such challenges is a testament to their dedication to service. Still, it is only reasonable to expect officer call outs and resignations to increase the longer the shutdown lasts, since no employee can be expected to work indefinitely without pay. I appreciate TSA’s statement that “security effectiveness will not be compromised and performance standards will not change” due to staffing shortages. However, I am concerned if wait times and public pressure increase, some TSA managers may try to manage the effects of the shutdown in ways that are detrimental to security. The security of aviation passengers must always be paramount. Link to letter # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.04.2019	Chairman Thompson Lauds Election Security Inclusion in H.R. 1 January 4, 2019 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, lauded the inclusion of election security in H.R. 1, the For the People Act, introduced today by the new House Democratic Majority to establish electoral reforms, strengthen our democracy, and combat corruption. The election security provisions in H.R. 1 were originally part of the Election Security Act (H.R. 5011), authored by Congressman Thompson last year after he served as co-Chair of the Task Force on Election Security. The Task Force was formed after the 2016 election to investigate vulnerabilities in our election systems and democratic institutions. Election security provisions in H.R. 1: Requires states use paper ballots. Establishes cybersecurity standards for voting systems vendors. Funds grants for states to improve and maintain the security of their election systems, to provide cybersecurity training to election officials, and to implement post-election risk limiting audits. Requires the DNI to assess threats to election systems 180 days before an election and requires DHS and the Election Assistance Commission to issue recommendations to address threats. Requires the testing of voting systems nine months before an election. Requires the President to produce a national strategy for protecting democratic institutions. Creates a National Commission to Protect United States Democratic Institutions. Chairman Thompson released the following statement on H.R. 1: “I am proud to have contributed to the creation of this legislation to strengthen our democracy and protect the integrity of our elections. With a mandate from the American people, the new House Democratic Majority is now finally in a position to pass legislation that will help secure our election infrastructure and help instill confidence in our democratic institutions. With passage of H.R. 1, we will be able to provide the support states need to protect the integrity of our elections against foreign interference, ensure confidence in election results by implementing risk-limiting audits, and trust that election infrastructure vendors are meeting appropriate security requirements.” “This should not be a partisan issue, but Congress has done far too little to prevent foreign election meddling after Russia interfered in the 2016 election. Democrats promised the American people that election security would continue to be a priority and today we are making good on that promise. The time to act is now. The 2020 election season has already begun.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.04.2019	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEChairman Thompson Calls on Secretary Nielsen to Come Before the Homeland Security Committee to Answer for the Administration’s Border Security Policies January 4, 2019 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen requesting her to testify before the Committee for its first hearing of the new Congress on the Administration’s failed border security agenda. Secretary Nielsen has only appeared before the Committee once. In the letter, Chairman Thompson wrote: Your border security presentation submitted to Congress today is yet another example of the misinformation and outright lies the Trump Administration has used to make the case for the President’s boondoggle border wall, defend the government shutdown, and distract the American people from a border policy so flawed that children have died in Department of Homeland Security custody. Squandering American taxpayer money on a wall may satisfy a segment of the President’s political supporters, but it will not solve the real border security challenges facing our Nation. Full letter text In the letter, Chairman Thompson also requests DHS provide relevant documentation and records on construction of a border wall, metering individuals at land ports of entry, interdiction of families between ports of entry, and care and treatment of children in CBP custody. # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.03.2019	Chairman Thompson Statement on Bill to Fund DHS January 3, 2019 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the Continuing Resolution to fund the Department of Homeland Security: “Since the government shutdown on December 21, roughly 2.5 million holiday travelers each day have passed through airport security checkpoints staffed by Transportation Security officers who aren’t getting paid. Almost half of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency workforce is furloughed, and the rest are working without pay. In all, 87 percent of the DHS workforce is reporting to work without pay and without knowing when their next paycheck will come.” “These are fellow Americans with bills to pay and families to support. The President should not be treating them like pawns in his pathetic pursuit to fulfill an absurd campaign promise.” “I have spent over a decade working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to identify and invest in effective ways to secure the border. That is why I find the President’s bizarre obsession with wasting billions of dollars on building a wall so confounding.” “There is no evidence that a wall spanning the US-Mexico border will make America safer. The kinds of threats America faces today transcend physical borders. The President needs to learn that and adjust his priorities accordingly.” “I am disappointed that we are forced to spend the first days of the 116th Congress on the unfinished business of the last Congress instead of addressing the priorities the Americans elected us to tackle.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.02.2019	Thompson Statement on John Kelly Departing the Trump Administration January 2, 2019 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member and incoming Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on former Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly’s departure today from the Trump Administration: “It is truly sad that John Kelly, who served the country admirably in the military, has had his reputation and service tarnished by serving President Trump both at DHS and the White House. Over the past two years, General Kelly seemed completely unable or unwilling to stand up to the President as he continues to take the country down a dark path. He has little of substance to show for his tenure in this Administration. General Kelly is no victim however - and it is clear that history will not be kind to his complicity and willingness to blindly serve this President.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
12.26.2018	Thompson Statement on Another Death of a Child in Our Government’s Care December 26, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the death of Felipe Alonzo-Gomez. This is the second death this month of a child in the federal government’s care at the border: “While the Department of Homeland Security is scrambling to adhere to the Trump Administration’s unilateral, radical changes to our immigration system, another young child has died while in our government's care. It's clear that the Trump Administration's fly-by-night mass detention policies and changes to the asylum process are not working. The welfare of children in our care must be a top priority. Next year, under a House Democratic Majority, Congress will look for real solutions to these problems, which have been made worse by the Administration's choices.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
12.11.2018	December 11, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the President’s threat to shut down the government to blackmail Congress for wall funding: “The President is blatantly trying to blackmail Congress by threatening a shutdown to get funding for his wall. The President has a very limited and overly simplistic view of what border security is and clearly has no idea how to achieve meaningful security at our Nation’s borders. Congress must not allow him to waste $5 billion in American taxpayer money on this completely unnecessary and wasteful border wall which will not secure the border.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson released the following statement on the abrupt closure of Jackson’s Virginia College campus: “I strongly feel that students should not obtain debt from gaining any type of education.” Thompson said. “Due to the abrupt closure of Virginia College’s Jackson campus, the U.S. Department of Education is encouraging students to apply for closed school discharge, which will essentially forgive any federal loans acquired by any student still enrolled at the college. I urge any Mississippian enrolled at the college to take this opportunity to file.” On Wednesday, December 5, 2018, the Education Corporation of America (ECA), announced the abrupt closure of its national chain of for-profit colleges, which includes Virginia College’s Jackson campus located within the second congressional district of Mississippi. Any student currently enrolled in courses at Virginia College can file for loan forgiveness by applying for a closed school discharge. To find out more on how a student can file for closed school discharge, contact your federal student loan servicer. You can also find more information here.
09.18.2018	MEDIA ADVISORYCongressional Hurricane Maria Conference Agenda, Panelists, & Keynote Speaker Announced September 17, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – This Thursday, September 20th, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, Rep. Nydia Velázquez (D-NY), Ranking Member of the Committee on Small Business, and Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Ranking Member of the Committee on Natural Resources, will sponsor a Congressional conference on Hurricane Maria marking one year since the catastrophic storm made landfall on Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The conference will feature three expert panel presentations from non-governmental organizations, private sector organizations, and academia. The conference will be an opportunity to hear from experts on Hurricane Maria’s impact, explore how the Federal government can improve its response and recovery efforts, and remember those who lost their lives in the storm. Keynote Speaker: Evelyn Lozada Television Personality, Businesswoman and Founder of the Evelyn Lozada Foundation Panel 1: Beyond Government: Resources Assisting Response Efforts Tiffany Cross, Co-Founder & Managing Editor, The Beat DC (Moderator) Kellie Bentz, Head of Global Disaster Response and Relief, Airbnb Gina Adams, Senior Vice President of Government Affairs, FedEx (TBD) Angelique Sina, Co-Founder & President, Friends of Puerto Rico Nate Mook, Executive Director, World Central Kitchen José Calderón, President, Hispanic Federation Panel 2: Helping Vulnerable Communities Weather the Storm Gretchen Sierra-Zorita, MPA, Public Policy and Communications Strategist (Moderator) Irwin Redlener, MD, Director, National Center for Disaster Preparedness, Columbia University Jeff Schlegelmilch, MPH, MBA, Deputy Director, National Center for Disaster Preparedness, Columbia University Casey Harrity, MPA, Senior Director, Humanitarian Programs, Save the Children Annelle Primm, MD, MPH, Chair and Convener, All Healers Mental Health Alliance Marcie Roth, Chief Executive Officer, Partnership for Inclusive Disaster Strategies Alejandra Y. Castillo, Esq., Chief Executive Officer, YWCA USA Panel 3: Looking to the Future Federico de Jesús, MA, Principal, FDJ Solutions (Moderator) Enrique Fernández Toledo, Director, Puerto Rico Relief and Economic Policy, Center for American Progress Barbara Lyons, PhD, Senior Vice President, The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation Diane Yentel, MS, President and Chief Executive Officer, National Low Income Housing Coalition Carmen Orozco-Acosta, PhD, Senior Policy Advisor, US Domestic Program, Oxfam America Alice Thomas, JD, Climate Displacement Program Manager, Refugees International The Hurricane Maria Conference: Reflecting on Catastrophe and Preparing for the Future Thursday, September 20, 2018 9:30am- 2:00pm Capitol Visitor Center Room HVC-215 U.S. Capitol, Washington, DC RSVP: E-mail CHSDemPress@mail.house.gov Conference webpage for updated details and streaming info Although Members will be sponsoring and hosting this event to inform stakeholders and the policymaking community, they will not be in Washington for the conference. # # # Media contact: (Thompson) Adam Comis at 202-225-9978 (Velázquez) Alex Haurek at 202-225-2361 (Grijalva) Adam Sarvana at 202-225-6065
09.11.2018	Thompson Statement on the 17th Anniversary of September 11 September 11, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement commemorating the seventeenth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks: “Seventeen years ago, our country was forever changed as we lost 2,996 lives in the face of terror and hate. Although this anniversary will always bring with it the sorrow and pain of that day, it allows us to honor and remember those who lost their lives and recognize the bravery of those who continue to protect and serve our homeland every day. As a Nation, we reconciled never to forget this day as we came together as one and withstood the forces that tried to divide us. As we have rebuilt, we have grown as a nation and have made great strides in making the nation more safe and resilient. However, we must continue to remain vigilant in the face of all forms of terrorism – whether foreign or domestic. We must do this by doing what the American people have charged us to do: by steadfastly working together to continue to improve the security of our great country.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
08.30.2018	Congressman Thompson Selects Alexis Williams to Serve in Washington Office WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) announced the selection of Jackson native, Alexis Williams, to serve in the role of Scheduler in his Washington, D.C. office. “Alexis interned in my office for over a year while studying at Howard University,” Thompson said. “I know her passion for the state of Mississippi, and it is wonderful to see young residents of the second congressional district work towards giving back to our state. I welcome Alexis to my office with confidence that she will be an asset to our team.” Alexis graduated from St. Andrew’s Episcopal School in 2013 and received a Bachelor’s of Science in Biology from Howard University in 2018. While at Howard, she was active in the university’s student government and volunteered for the Big Brothers Big Sisters of Washington. She also tutored local students who were participants in the Wheeler Creek’s Community Development Program.
08.29.2018	Thompson Statement on Trump Calling Hurricane Maria Response ‘Fantastic’ August 29, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on President Trump’s comments today on the Federal government’s response to Hurricane Maria: “The President’s comments today on Puerto Rico are simply not based in reality. The Federal response to Hurricane Maria cannot, in any fashion, be described as ‘fantastic’. The President contradicts his own Administration’s 2017 Hurricane Season After-Action Report where FEMA admitted they were simply unprepared and did not know what was happening on the ground for days after the storm made landfall. The President would be best served by not attempting to rewrite the history of his Administration’s poor response to a storm that claimed the lives of 2,975 Americans.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
08.28.2018	Congressman Thompson Invites the W.L. Johnson Inspirational Mass Choir to Perform at the Annual CBCF Gospel Extravaganza WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) announced his invitation to the W.L. Johnson Inspirational Mass Choir of Mt. Zion Missionary Baptist Church to represent Mississippi’s Second Congressional District at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s Annual Legislative Conference Gospel Extravaganza on Thursday, September 13th, at 8:00 p.m. at the United House of Prayer for All People in Washington, D.C. “It is my pleasure to invite the W.L. Johnson Inspirational Mass Choir,” Thompson said. “Every year, I am excited to showcase the talent of Mississippi’s Second Congressional District to all guests of the Gospel Extravaganza. The W.L. Johnson Inspirational Mass Choir is a Mississippi gem, and it is my honor to host them this year.” The W.L. Johnson Inspirational Mass Choir began singing together as one unit November of 2017. Under the leadership of Minister of Music, Dennis McDonald, the choir has turned its focus to being one choir, creating one sound, praising the only one and true God.
08.22.2018	Congressman Thompson’s Statement on the Manafort Verdict WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) released the following statement on the grand jury verdict of Donald Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort: “The Manafort verdict is more proof that Trump and his administration are corrupt,” Thompson said. “Since Trump has been elected, my office has received numerous calls asking for Congress to work to impeach him.” “After yesterday’s verdict, constituents in the District are continuing their plea that we work to impeach Trump. As things continue to unravel, Mississippians and all Americans are learning each and every day how corrupt this White House is.”
08.06.2018	Congressman Thompson’s Statement on the 20th Anniversary of the U.S. Embassy Terror Attack in Nairobi WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) released the following statement: “Twenty years ago today, my friend Julian L. Bartley, a proud American diplomat, and his son, Julian L. Bartley Jr., were killed in the Al Qaeda bombing of the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, which claimed the lives of 224 people — including 12 of our nation’s dedicated civil servants. In the years since, I worked closely with the Bartleys and other families in their long and often-arduous pursuit of justice against the government sponsors behind the heinous attack. “And while these families mourn the loved ones they lost on August 7, 1998, today must also serve as a day of remembrance for our entire nation in honor of the sacrifice made by these 12 heroic Americans in service to their country — as well as all of our civil servants who bravely represent the United States in some of the most dangerous areas around the world.” ###
08.06.2018	GAO Report: Trump’s Wall Set to Waste Billions, Provide No Measurable Benefit August 6, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, announced the release of a new U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) report they requested on President Trump’s completely unnecessary and wasteful border wall. In the report, entitled “Southwest Border Security: CBP Is Evaluating Designs and Locations for Border Barriers but Is Proceeding Without Key Information” GAO found that CBP selected locations for new construction before assessing which areas along the southern border should be prioritized and without full cost estimates. GAO also found that CBP continues to move construction projects forward while still not having metrics in place to gauge effectiveness. In this rush, GAO argues that DHS may end up paying way more than anticipated, potentially wasting billions without anything to show for it. CBP also did not follow required DHS planning and acquisition protocols. Congressman Thompson released the following statement on the report: "This report exposes what we have suspected would happen for over a year. The Trump Administration, fixated on campaign promises no matter the cost or consequences, is rushing the construction of the President's completely unnecessary border ‘wall’. In moving too fast, they have ignored necessary and established acquisitions protocols and plan to build a multi-billion dollar border wall where their own analysis shows it is not a priority. To be blunt, this Administration has no clue what it is doing and must be held accountable. Since DHS picked locations for the President's wall before taking into account effectiveness or cost, any more spending on Trump's wall would be a giant waste of taxpayer money and may not provide any measurable security benefit. At this point, spending billions on the President's wall is just a gift to contractors and the President's political base. While we may surmise that politics played a role in how the Administration decided where to build the President's wall, we now know for certain that effectiveness and considering the full range of costs were not part of the decision-making process. I urge my colleagues to read this report before allowing another dime be spent on the President's pet project and costly boondoggle. Democrats have and continue to support proven border security projects, but we will not sit idly by while billions of American taxpayer dollars to be thrown down the toilet." Congressman Vela added the following statement: “The report shows us what we already knew. The Trump Administration put almost zero thought into the construction of this wall other than how it will play in the news cycle. The GAO found that DHS is planning to spend billions of taxpayer dollars without key information about cost and effectiveness. Simply put, the White House has not done their homework; they are gambling taxpayer money while operating on incomplete information. This irresponsible waste is unacceptable and a complete disgrace.” Link to Report # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
07.31.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson Writes DHS on Homeland Security Implications of 3D Printed Gun Blueprints Published Online July 31, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen on the homeland security implications of the Trump Administration allowing the online publication of blueprints for 3-D printed firearms. It is unknown if the Department of Homeland Security was involved in the decision of the Departments of State and Justice to abandon the lawsuit that would have stopped publication. The proliferation of unregistered and untraceable firearms will undoubtedly have a grave impact on the Department’s counterterrorism, aviation security, and Secret Service missions. In the letter, Congressman Thompson writes: “Allowing unregistered homemade firearms to proliferate in our communities puts public safety and homeland security at risk.” “The spread of homemade firearms will unquestionably impede the Department of Homeland Security’s efforts to protect the American people. For years, security experts have warned of the threat posed by the ‘lone wolf’ terrorist. In my estimation, the ability of a lone wolf attacker to print untraceable firearms at home will make it much more difficult for law enforcement to detect terrorist plots and prevent violence. It will complicate efforts to secure transportation, mass gatherings, Federal buildings, and government leaders, as metal detectors will fail to detect plastic guns. Fundamentally, the availability of homemade firearms will lead to more violence as it renders meaningless the few protections in place to prevent the sale of firearms to dangerous individuals.” Link to Letter # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
07.31.2018	Thompson, Watson Coleman Inquire on Air Marshal Intelligence Program July 31, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective Security, sent a letter to the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) regarding news articles on the Federal Air Marshal Service and its practices and operations. In the letter, the Members request more information on the authorities and rules followed for the collection of intelligence. Reps. Thompson and Watson Coleman also inquire on the privacy, due process, and non-discrimination protections followed by the agency. In the letter, the Members write: “…[W]e must ensure TSA’s programs and policies provide appropriate privacy and due process protections to travelers, are applied without discrimination, are grounded in actionable intelligence, and exist within TSA’s legal authorities. We are also concerned that some Federal Air Marshals (FAMs) apparently disagree with their assigned missions.” Link to Letter # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
07.18.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson Statement on Republican Sham Resolution July 18, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the below statement on H.Res. 990, a non-binding resolution brought up by House Republicans. The resolution, driven by partisan politics, does nothing to fix our immigration system or help reunite families. “With this sham resolution, it is clear House Republicans just want to change the subject after President Trump’s disastrous summit in Helsinki where he refused to confront Putin over his blatant attack on our democracy. This resolution will do nothing to put back together the thousands of families intentionally torn apart by the Trump Administration or deal with the humanitarian crisis Trump has created. It will also do nothing to improve morale at the Department. I voted ‘no’ in protest of this shameful exercise and to highlight the lack of action to remedy the damage caused by President Trump’s ‘zero tolerance’ and family separation policies. Just yesterday we learned that some children were torn away from their parents loving care and thrust into environments where they are sleeping on cement and not getting enough food or clean water. By standing idly by and doing nothing, the Republicans are supporting a president and his administration who has proven, time and time again, to lack basic human decency.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
07.12.2018	Congressman Thompson’s Statement on the Reopening of Emmett Till’s Case WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) released the following statement on the U.S. Department of Justice’s decision to reopen the cold case of Emmett Till: “I’m pleased that the Department of Justice is reopening the case of Emmett Till,” Thompson said. “In a letter written in 2017, to Acting Assistant Attorney General Thomas Wheeler, I requested that the DOJ investigate the statements made by Carolyn Bryant Donham that she admitted to fabricating, in a book that outlined her accounts of the events leading up to the brutal murder of Emmett Till.” “As Congressman of the Second Congressional District, I represent Tallahatchie County, which includes the area where the abduction and murder of Emmett Till took place. No matter the length of time, it is never too late to ensure justice is served. As the DOJ begins its investigation, I look forward to keeping an eye on its developments and aiding in any way I can.” Click here to read Congressman’s 2017 letter.
07.11.2018	Congressman Thompson’s Statement on Trump’s Supreme Court Nominee WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) released the following statement on President Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh: “The Supreme Court nomination of Brett Kavanaugh brings potential harm towards women, minorities and countless others across the country,” Thompson said. “For many of us, schools would remain segregated if it weren’t for the Brown v. Board of Education ruling. For women, Trump campaigned on appointing Supreme Court justices that will overturn Roe v. Wade. “I join with the NAACP and other groups opposing Kavanaugh’s nomination.”
06.28.2018	Congressman Thompson Recognizes Mississippian for Aiding Children at the Border WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) recognizes New Orleans Saints linebacker and Collins, Miss. native, Demario Davis, for his service of preparing and distributing care packages to families affected by the Trump administration’s ‘Zero Tolerance’ policy. “It is good to hear Mississippians are working to combat the discriminatory policy enacted by Trump designed to separate children from their mothers and fathers,” Thompson said. “Demario is a perfect example of how Mississippians are always willing to put themselves in places to help. I thank him and all other Mississippians who have assisted separated families.” Congressman Thompson visited the South Texas Border facilities near Brownsville Texas last week.
06.27.2018	Congressman Bennie Thompson Announces $6 Million Awarded to Delta Health Alliance, Inc. Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced The United States Department of Education under the Promise Neighborhoods Implementation Grants Program has awarded $6 Million to the Delta Health Alliance, Inc. The purpose of the Promise Neighborhoods Program is to ensure youth have access to great schools.
06.26.2018	Congressman Bennie Thompson Announces Endangered Historic Place in Mississippi Second Congressional District Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced the National Trust for Historic Preservation has unveiled its 2018 list of America’s 11 Most Endangered Historic Places with one location being identified in the Mississippi Second Congressional District. Isaiah T. Montgomery House – Mound Bayou, MS. Established by former slave Isaiah T. Montgomery, Mound Bayou was one of the earliest all-black municipalities, located in the Mississippi Delta following the Civil War. Today, Montgomery's home is in urgent need of stabilization and rehabilitation.
05.22.2018	Congressman Thompson Addresses Failure of Grant Paperwork Submission in Sec. Hosemann Letter WASHINGTON – Yesterday, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) sent a letter to Mississippi Secretary of State, Delbert Hosemann, urging him to submit paperwork on behalf of the state required to receive grant funding from the U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC). “Russian interference in the 2016 election was a watershed moment for our democracy,” Thompson wrote in the letter. “Russia’s efforts have affected public confidence in elections and its efforts have shown no signs of cooling. Mississippi currently uses a combination of paper ballots and direct recording electronic voting machines (DREs) without a voter verified paper audit trail (VVPAT).” “Cyber experts agree that the use of DREs without VVPAT is less secure and should be retired, and that States should implement risk-limiting audits regardless of the method of voting used in the State. Moreover, I believe that election officials in Mississippi would benefit from cybersecurity training. Although the funding provided through this initial grant program may not pay for all Mississippi plans to do to secure its elections, it will certainly help.” Letter to Mississippi Secretary of State ###
05.21.2018	Press Release: Congressman Bennie G. Thompson Announces Offer of Appointment to the United States Military Academy BOLTON, MS – Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announces an offer of appointment to the United States Military Academy for the Second Congressional District. Jaquan Byrd, has been nominated by United States Congressman Bennie G. Thompson and has received an offer of appointment to the United States Military Academy. In 2016, Jaquan was awarded a congressional nomination from Congressman Thompson and was accepted to the United States Military Academy Preparatory School. While attending Preparatory School, Jaquan was the Platoon Leader of Bravo Company 2nd Platoon. He was also a member of the Sandhurst Team, a team that competes in the Sandhurst Military Skills Competition. Jaquan has volunteered for the Wreaths Across America and Toys for Tots. Jaquan is the son of Nyree Byrd residing in Jackson, Mississippi. Jaquan received a “Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition” in recognition of his offer of appointment to the United States Military Academy and for outstanding academic achievement. If you are interested in attending a Military Academy, you may contact Mr. Cedric Watkins, my academy representative at (662) 741-9003 or via e-mail at cedric.watkins@mail.house.gov
05.18.2018	Congressman Thompson Votes NO on GOP Farm Bill WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) voted NO on H.R. 2, commonly known as the GOP Farm Bill of 2018. “This bill did not help proportionally the same people as the previous farm bill,” Thompson said. “I have been a longtime supporter of agriculture and the GOP Farm Bill failed farmers and working families throughout the Second Congressional District. The bill would have cut SNAP benefits by $23 billion, which puts children, seniors, students, veterans and disabled individuals at risk.” “The House rejecting this bad bill gives us an opportunity to come back and craft legislation that is better for everyone. My NO vote ensures the stability of social safety net and agricultural programs to benefit residents of the Second Congressional District.” The House rejected the bill by a 198-213 vote. The GOP Farm Bill included work requirements for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) recipients. The bill will now return to the U.S. House Committee on Agriculture for redevelopment. ###
05.16.2018	Congressman Thompson’s Medgar Evers National Monument Act Passes House WASHINGTON – Last night, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02)’s legislation, to designate the Jackson home of the late Civil Rights icon, Medgar Evers’ a national monument, passed the U.S. House of Representatives. “This legislation is of great personal importance to me,” Thompson said. “I, like many others, was inspired by the magnitude of determination Mr. Evers showed by dedicating himself to others and fighting against adversity. The designation of his home is an everlasting tribute to his legacy. I am honored to have authored this legislation to honor the sacrifice of not only Mr. Evers but also his widow, Myrlie.” The bill had bi-partisan support throughout the U.S. House of Representatives. The legislation now makes its way to the U.S. Senate for a final vote.
03.22.2018	Thompson Statement on OmnibusBill includes election security funds and grants for non-profits March 22, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the FY2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act: “The omnibus, while not perfect, represents a bipartisan rejection of President Trump’s appalling budget.” “With the inclusion of election security funds, Congress is finally starting to recognize that protecting our elections must be a national security priority. Now, states will be able to use the election security technology grants to replace outdated voting machines and ensure paper ballots are used. The use of paper ballots is a bipartisan priority and is the prime recommendation of House Democrats’ Election Security Task Force. The election security funds in the omnibus are, however, just a down payment towards securing our elections. Continued investment will be necessary to keep up with technology and ever-changing threats. Securing our elections is not cheap, but the integrity of our democracy is at stake. If we fail to recognize this, Russia will continue to interfere in our election for years to come.” “The omnibus also includes homeland security grant funding specifically for non-profits like religious institutions to make their facilities more safe and secure. These organizations have faced a recent uptick in threats, harassment, and, violence. Most importantly, non-profits will not have to be in large cities to apply for this funding. We owe it to our constituents to do all we can to protect these organizations that allow Americans to safely congregate, worship, or engage in other community activities.” “Additionally, it is a travesty that Congress has still not passed protections for DREAMers. President Trump can tweet what he pleases, but my fellow Democrats and I want nothing more than to help these contributing members of our society and ensure they know they belong here. Republicans on the other hand continue to do nothing.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
03.21.2018	Thompson Demands Election Security Hearings After Homeland Security Chairman Backtracks March 21, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement after receiving written notice from Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) that he will not convene a hearing dedicated to election security as he indicated publically on March 7th. While promising to work with Democrats on this issue as soon as possible, Chairman McCaul said: “I look forward to working with you to conducting a full hearing on this issue as it not only impacted—was a real event in the last presidential election–but I believe it will be a real event in the midterm 2018 elections.” Today, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee that our elections are "clearly potential targets for Russian hacking attempts." “I am extremely disappointed that Chairman McCaul has already backtracked on his public promise to hold a much-needed hearing on election security and the ongoing Russia cyber threat. This also comes after repeated overtures last year to work together on this issue. Alas, we have made no progress. To be clear, we first began hearing of Russia’s interference in our elections almost two years ago.” “Chairman McCaul often reiterates his opposition to Russia, but actions speak louder than words. Like Speaker Ryan and his fellow House Chairmen, he is ensuring the House stays true in its partisanship and seems too willing to do President Trump’s bidding. Homeland security used to be a bipartisan issue, but it seems this is no longer possible when one party refuses to put the country – and its security – first.” “Holding a focused and comprehensive hearing on election security is not a partisan or complicated request. It speaks volumes that while Chairman McCaul has been dragging his feet on this issue for over a year, the Senate is holding election security hearings today with current and former homeland security officials. This is all we are asking for. I call on Chairman McCaul to realize his error and follow through on his promise.” “If Chairman McCaul believes Russia will interfere in the 2018 elections, as he has stated, we cannot ignore this threat. Having hearings on election security – while developing solutions and showing the public that we are working together on this issue is a solid first step. The 2018 elections are only seven months away and we must be doing much more to protect them. If we do nothing, we are just inviting Putin to what he pleases with our democracy and our domestic affairs.” Link to Letter # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
03.20.2018	DeFazio, Thompson, Pallone: Six Months After Hurricane Maria, Federal Recovery Still Lagging Behind March 20, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Transportation & Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), and Energy & Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ) sent a letter to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Brock Long on the delays and challenges that continue to frustrate the federal response and recovery efforts in Puerto Rico six months after it was devastated by Hurricane Maria. In the letter, the Ranking Members highlight three primary concerns following an oversight trip to Puerto Rico last month: Puerto Rico has been treated differently than other areas affected by natural disasters, including an unheard-of 43-day wait for a disaster declaration for permanent Public Assistance. This disparate treatment is slowing recovery. Over 100,000 businesses and families still don't have electrical power and are not scheduled to receive service until April or May. FEMA’s questionable vetting of contractors, and entering into contracts without competitive bidding or to contractors with no Federal contracting experience, has delayed relief to thousands of Puerto Ricans. Ranking Members Thompson, Pallone, and DeFazio released the following statement on the letter: “Six months after Hurricane Maria devastated Puerto Rico and knocked out power and water to the island, the federally coordinated response and recovery effort is not where it should be. After facing the devastation of the storm, Puerto Ricans then had to face the slow pace of aid and apparent indifference from the Trump Administration. Despite the fact that more than 100,000 businesses and families are still without power, Puerto Rico does not seem to be a priority for the federal government. Our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico are strong and able, but we must do more to help them recover.” Link to Letter # # # Media contact: (Thompson) Adam Comis at 202-225-9978 (DeFazio) Sandy Bayley at 202-225-4472 (Pallone) CJ Young at 202-225-3641
03.20.2018	Jayapal, Thompson, Lofgren Lead More Than 50 Members to Protect Families From Being Torn Apart at the Border March 20, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – 58 members of Congress led by Rep. Pramila Jayapal, Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson, and Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration Policy & Enforcement Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren sent a letter to the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Appropriations to urge the committee to reject the separation of families at the border and instead restore funding for alternatives to detention, such as the Family Case Management Program (FCMP). “Attorneys from around the country have communicated that family separation is currently occurring on a regular basis. We believe that the Administration is threatening to institute a blanket policy requiring the separation of all families. This is an inhumane practice that must end now,” wrote the members. “DHS must act with humanity and fiscal responsibility by prioritizing a spectrum of alternatives to detention, beginning by restoring the Family Case Management Program (FCMP).” Link to Letter # # # Media contact: (Thompson) Adam Comis at 202-225-9978 (Jayapal) Omer Farooque at 202-450-0088
03.19.2018	Thompson, Richmond, Jackson Lee: Austin Bombings Must Be Classified as Terrorist Attacks“For too long we have focused only on certain sources of terrorism and violence while ignoring others” March 19, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Congressional Black Caucus Chairman Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA), and Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) released the follow statement on the terrorist bombings in Austin, Texas: “Our prayers continue to be with the victims of the Austin bombings and their families. We continue to offer our support as the federal government and local authorities work to bring those responsible to justice. To be clear, these bombings must be classified as ongoing terrorist attacks and should be investigated as such. Also, we need to understand if these attacks are ideologically or racially motivated. The community impacted is now under virtual house arrest and the entire city is posed to be in a state of fear – which can easily transition into panic. We cannot stand idly by while our communities are under attack. This has become a national security issue and the full investigative force of the federal government must be focused on stopping these attacks.” “We call on Congressional leadership to join us in insisting that Members of Congress be briefed on these heinous acts by the Federal Bureau of Investigation before Congress adjourns on Thursday. We also call on the Chairmen of the Committees we serve on - Homeland Security and Judiciary - to recognize the gravity of the domestic terrorism threat and work with us on developing concrete and common sense solutions to counter it. For too long we have focused only on certain sources of terrorism and violence while ignoring others.” # # # Media contact: (Thompson) Adam Comis at 202-225-9978 (Richmond) Kamara Jones at 202-226-9776 (Jackson Lee) Carolyn Williams at 202-225-3816
03.15.2018	Thompson Statement on New Russian Sanctions March 15, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on news that the Treasury Department has sanctioned Russian actors for interfering in the 2016 elections and for targeting our critical infrastructure: “The Trump Administration has finally come to its senses and has implemented sanctions for Russia's targeting of our critical infrastructure and interfering in our elections since 2016. Why this took so long, we’ll never know. Interfering in our elections was a blatant attack on our democracy. Russia is growing more brazen in its efforts to undermine the West and its attack on the United Kingdom earlier this month is proof of that. Without consequences, Putin will only be more emboldened. The sanctions announced today could not come soon enough.” “President Trump must honor his oath of office and protect and defend the United States. President Trump must acknowledge that Putin is not our friend and does not have America’s best interests in mind. Sanctions alone will not stop Russia’s efforts to undermine Western democracies.” “With federal elections only months away, securing our election infrastructure from continued Russian meddling must be prioritized by the Trump Administration and Congress. To do this, President Trump must treat this like any other major national security issue and direct his Administration to counter it, and Congress must act on proposals to provide meaningful assistance to states to help secure their elections.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
03.15.2018	Ranking Member Thompson Hearing Statement Preparedness, Response, and Rebuilding: Lessons on the 2017 Disasters March 15, 2018 We were originally scheduled to have FEMA Administrator Brock Long before this Committee in November of last year. Unfortunately, it was canceled after the Democrats invited the Mayor of San Juan, Puerto Rico to testify about the effects of Hurricane Maria on her community. That troubling turn of events occurred shortly after Administrator Long publicly stated that he had “filtered out the Mayor a long time ago.” I am not sure when it became acceptable to be dismissive of an official representing an American city devastated by a natural disaster. Next week marks six months since Hurricane Maria made landfall on Puerto Rico, sending the island into darkness and changing life for nearly 3.3 million Americans. Still today, thousands of Puerto Ricans, or 10 percent of the population, have yet to have their power restored. The Puerto Rican economy continues to struggle as a result of the devastation to infrastructure, homes, and businesses. Hundreds of thousands of Puerto Ricans have moved to the mainland in the wake of the storm, perhaps never to return. So, while I am pleased the Committee is finally holding this important hearing, to say it is long overdue would be an understatement. The 2017 Atlantic hurricane season was among the most active on record, with 17 named storms. Three major storms caused destruction in Texas, Florida, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico. The response to those storms by the Trump Administration was a study in contrasts. After Harvey, President Trump tweeted, “Texas: We are with you today, we are with you tomorrow, and we will be with you EVERY SINGLE DAY AFTER, to restore, recover, and REBUILD.” President Trump visited the affected area just four days later. This is what Americans expect from the President and their Federal government in the wake of disaster. Similarly, after Hurricane Irma struck Florida, President Trump tweeted, “Just like TX, WE are w/you today, we are w/you tomorrow, & we will be w/you EVERY SINGLE DAY AFTER, to RESTORE, RECOVER, and REBUILD.” Again, the President visited four days later, as it should be. But after Hurricane Maria devastated Puerto Rico and part of the U.S. Virgin Islands, President Trump’s words and actions were decidedly different. He tweeted, “We cannot keep FEMA, the Military & the First Responders, who have been amazing (under the most difficult circumstances) in P.R. forever!” The President also said the government of Puerto Rico wanted “everything to be done for them” and accused officials of “poor leadership.” And when he finally showed up in Puerto Rico two weeks after the storm made landfall, he chucked rolls of paper towels at survivors. President Trump did not even bother to visit the U.S. Virgin Islands. For an American president to behave in such a way is beyond the pale. In keeping with the President’s actions, the Federal government’s response was decidedly different after each storm. FEMA had supplies and personnel pre-positioned before Hurricane Harvey made landfall on August 25 and, shortly thereafter, the Federal government had more than 31,000 of Federal employees on the ground in support of the response. FEMA also provided 3 million meals and 3 million liters of water for Harvey survivors. Likewise, for Irma, there were more than 40,000 federal personnel, including 2,650 FEMA staff, on the ground just days after the storm struck on September 10. FEMA also provided 6.6 million meals and 4.7 million liters of water to the region in the days just after Irma made landfall. The Trump Administration’s response to Maria was far slower and smaller. Even weeks after the storm, there were only a fraction of the Federal personnel on the ground in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands as had been deployed to Texas and Florida. Food and water were in short supply, and Federal contracts to provide essentials like tarps and meals were botched, further slowing the response. Electrical outages to critical facilities like hospitals required doctors in Puerto Rico to perform lifesaving surgery using the light of their cell phones. Doctors in the U.S. Virgin Islands saw the only hospital on St. Thomas badly damaged, rendering its medical floor and cancer treatment facility unusable. Despite the devastation, it took 43 DAYS for President Trump to approve Public Assistance Program disaster aid to Puerto Rico, quadruple the amount of time it took to approve such assistance to Texas and Florida. I understand the delay was due to the Trump Administration imposing conditions on this aid never before required of any other community, a deal some have called the “Puerto Rico special.” Meanwhile, the President found the time to spend several days at his Trump properties golfing, hold multiple fundraisers, fight with NFL players about taking a knee during games, and tweet about everything from “fake news” to the “Russia hoax.” That is not the kind of leadership the people of Puerto Rico, or any Americans affected by disasters, expect or deserve. Today, I hope to hear about how the Federal government is using funding approved by Congress to support response and recovery in communities hit by hurricanes, wildfires, and other recent disasters. I am particularly interested in hearing from Administrator Long about the lessons learned from these disasters and how FEMA can be better prepared to respond in the future. For the witnesses on our second panel, I hope to hear your perspectives on the Federal response and what we can do to support your recovery going forward. FEMA’s mission is supposed to be “helping people before, during, and after disasters.” It is our job to conduct the oversight necessary to ensure the agency fulfills that mission, so I look forward to our discussion today. # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
02.16.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson: Hearing on Election Security and Russian Interference Needed February 16, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, sent a letter to Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) to request a comprehensive oversight hearing on the ongoing efforts by Russia and other foreign actors seeking to interfere in our elections – and to request a consideration of the Election Security Act (H.R. 5011). This bill, introduced by Ranking Member Thompson and Members of the Congressional Task Force on Election Security, would authorize $1 billion in grants to protect elections for public office and enhance the security of our election infrastructure. In the letter, Ranking Member Thompson states: Recognizing the alarming conclusions of our national security and intelligence agencies and ongoing reports of our foreign adversaries’ intentions, on May 23, 2017, I wrote to you to request a Committee on Homeland Security investigation into Russian interference in our elections. While this Committee failed to take action, government officials continued to sound the alarm. Absent action on my request, on June 29, 2017, I joined with colleagues from the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on House Administration to form the Congressional Task Force on Election Security. Earlier this week, after months of engagement with state election officials, security experts, and other stakeholders, the Task Force released a comprehensive report with findings and recommendations and unveiled the Election Security Act, which is aimed at bolstering protections for upcoming U.S. elections. Given the seriousness of this threat to our Nation, Congress must redouble its efforts to thwart foreign influences seeking to interfere in our elections. The Committee on Homeland Security should have acted long ago. With less than ten legislative days prior to the first primary election of the year, it is critical that we hold a hearing to examine this national security issue and consider the Election Security Act without delay. We owe it to the American public to act.
02.16.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson Statement on FBI’s Failure to Follow Established Protocols February 16, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on FBI’s failure to follow established protocols after receiving a report of concern prior to the Parkland, Florida school shooting: “Today, we learned the FBI received a report of Nikolas Cruz’s disturbing behavior and desire to harm others prior to the Parkland, Florida school shooting. Tragically, proper protocols were not followed and the information was never acted upon. As we continue to mourn the lives lost, FBI and other law enforcement agencies should remain steadfast in advancing a thorough investigation—including any and all of the shooter’s connections and background information. Congress must act urgently to prevent future attacks by not only investigating FBI’s information sharing apparatus, but also by developing sensible legislation to keep assault rifles out of the hands of those who seek to do harm. Charleston, Las Vegas, Orlando, and now Parkland all share the same unfortunate commonality. Congress has to be willing to have these hard conversations and protect our communities. This is not a political matter; it is our duty to the American people.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 226-2616
02.16.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson Statement on Mueller Russian Indictments February 16, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on Special Counsel Mueller’s indictment of Russians for election interference: “Today’s indictments of 13 Russian nationals and three Russian entities underscore the Russian government’s commitment to interfere in our democratic processes and destabilize our democratic institutions, making implementation of the Congressional Task Force on Election Security’s recommendations all the more urgent. In 2016, the Russians engaged in a full on attack on our democracy. This methodical, multi-million dollar enterprise struck at our democratic foundation, sought to exploit political divisions, disenfranchise minority voters, and erode the confidence of the American public. The Russians exploited our freedoms of expression and assembly with their bot campaign and by organizing in-person rallies on our soil. The time for Congress to act is now. With the release of the Congressional Task Force on Election Security’s report and the introduction of H.R. 5011, the Election Security Act, the Democrats articulated a clear path for protecting our democracy. Regrettably, my Republican colleagues have not taken this issue seriously. I urge my Republican colleagues to wake up, acknowledge the Russian government’s efforts to divide and destabilize us, and take steps to protect our democracy.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 226-2616
02.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson Statement on Florida School Shooting February 15, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement in regards to the tragic shooting yesterday at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida: “Today, our thoughts and prayers are with the students, faculty, staff, families, and friends who were affected by the tragic shooting in Parkland, Florida yesterday. Mass shootings have become all too common, as this tragic event marks our eighteenth school shooting this year. We cannot continue down this path. Our children deserve better. Americans deserve better. Our constituents look to Congress for more than just thoughts and prayers. I'm ready to take action to prevent such senseless gun violence. The question is: When will the Republicans who control the House join me?” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 226-2616
02.14.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEElection Security Task Force Releases Final Report & RecommendationsElection Security Act will implement recommendations February 14, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – The Congressional Task Force on Election Security, chaired by House Committee on Homeland Security Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) and Committee on House Administration Ranking Member Robert Brady (D-PA) released its FINAL REPORT including ten specific recommendations on what the federal government and states can and should be doing to secure our nation’s elections. Russia’s unprecedented assault on the country’s elections in 2016 – including targeting 21 states’ voting systems – exposed serious national security vulnerabilities to our election infrastructure – which includes voting machines and voter registration databases. The Members of the Task Force also introduced legislation, the Election Security Act, to implement the recommendations of the report. Congressman Thompson released the following statement with the report: “It has been over a year since Russia’s campaign to interfere in our elections and undermine our democracy was uncovered, and yet neither the Trump White House nor Republicans in the House have done anything of substance to stop it from happening again. This inaction to an attack on our democracy should be appalling to all citizens. We know if we do nothing to protect elections - the very root of our democracy - Russia will do the same again. We formed this Task Force so to investigate the vulnerabilities in our voting systems and create common sense solutions to close any security gaps. States cannot fight sophisticated adversaries like Russia alone. It is time for Congress to act to institute reforms and provide substantial assistance. With the next federal election less than nine months away, we cannot afford to waste any more time.” Congressman Brady added the following statement releasing the report: “There is no doubt that Russia interfered in the 2016 election and targeted 21 states’ voting systems. And we can expect them to return. The Election Security Task Force has been hearing from state and local officials over the past seven months. They know they need to strengthen their voting systems, and they need Congress to act. But Republicans have been asleep at the wheel. To date, Republicans have not even held a single full-committee hearing on the security of our nation’s elections. The first primary election of 2018 is on February 20 – only 6 days away. The general election is in under nine months. We do not have a minute to waste.” Report Recommendations: Congress should immediately make the nearly $400 million authorized in the Help America Vote Act available to states to replace aging, less secure voting machines with paper ballots. Congress should provide ongoing funding to states to secure their IT systems and voter databases, train personnel on cybersecurity, and end the crisis-to-crisis approach to addressing vulnerabilities in elections. Congress should adequately fund the Department of Homeland Security and the Election Assistance Commission so they can properly fulfill their mission to assist states in securing their election infrastructure. States should require voting machine vendors follow cybersecurity standards and notify of potential breaches. The Federal government should develop a National Strategy to Counter Efforts to Undermine Democratic Institutions. The Intelligence Community should produce election security threat assessments six months before federal elections. DHS should maintain the designation of election infrastructure as a critical infrastructure subsector. States should conduct risk-limiting audits to determine vote accuracy after elections. States should prioritize cybersecurity training for their election officials, IT staff, and poll workers and the federal government must assist in this effort. DHS should expedite the clearance process for the chief election official in every state and establish channels for sharing relevant threat and intelligence information. The Congressional Task Force on Election Security was created in June 2017 under the direction of Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi by Co-Chairs Thompson and Brady. Membership of the Task Force also includes Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Rep. James R. Langevin (D-RI), Rep. Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA), and Rep. Val Demings (D-FL). # # #
02.13.2018	*** PRESS ADVISORY ***TOMORROW: Election Security Task Force to Hold Press Conference Releasing Final Report & Legislation February 13, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Tomorrow, February 14th, the Congressional Task Force on Election Security, chaired by House Committee on Homeland Security Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) and Committee on House Administration Ranking Member Robert Brady (D-PA) will hold a press conference releasing its Final Report including ten specific recommendations on what the federal government and states can and should be doing to secure our nation’s elections. The Members of the Task Force will also introduce legislation to help secure our election infrastructure and implement the recommendations of the report. Russia’s unprecedented assault on the country’s elections in 2016 – including targeting 21 states’ voting systems – exposed serious national security vulnerabilities to our election infrastructure – which includes voting machines and voter registration databases. Since that time, the Trump Administration and Republican Leadership in Congress have refused to address the issue or put forth any solutions to close these security gaps, inviting Russia to interfere in our elections again. WHO: Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi Rep. Bennie G. Thompson, Task Force Co-Chair Rep. Robert Brady, Task Force Co-Chair Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) Rep. James R. Langevin (D-RI) Rep. Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA) Rep. Val Demings (D-FL) WHAT: Press Conference on election security and new legislation to secure our elections. WHEN: Wednesday, February 14, 2018, 11:45 am ET WHERE: Radio/TV Gallery Studio A Capitol Visitor Center The Capitol Washington, D.C. NOTE: Press conference is for Congressionally accredited media only. Live stream of the event will be available here. # # # Media contact: Peter Whippy at 202-225-1943
02.08.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDemocrats: DHS Has No Right or Reason to Separate Families February 8, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, 75 Democratic Representatives led by Reps. Lucille Roybal-Allard and Pramila Jayapal, Co-Chairs of the Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson, Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen expressing profound concern with the Department of Homeland Security's practice of separating immigrant families, both in the United States and at the border. Numerous studies and stories have shown this practice traumatizes those seeking humanitarian relief and limits their ability to lawfully pursue legal relief. In the letter, the 75 members urge DHS to immediately clarify current policies and to reverse any established or de facto policies that undermine the ability of those seeking humanitarian relief to pursue protection or result in the needless separation of and harm to families. “Separating children from their parents is unconscionable and contradicts the most basic of American family values. Moreover, the reported justification of this practice as a deterrent to family migration suggests a lack of understanding about the violence many families are fleeing in their home countries. More pointedly, the pretext of deterrence is not a legally sufficient basis for separating families,” wrote the Representatives. “We are deeply disturbed by reports that the practice of separating families is increasing. Two recent complaints filed with DHS oversight components, the Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties (CRCL) and the Office of Inspector General (OIG), illustrate that DHS appears to be intentionally separating families for purposes of deterrence and punishment.” “We believe that separation is especially unnecessary given that ICE can and should turn to humane, less costly, alternatives to detention, such as the Family Case Management Program, which ICE prematurely terminated after only one year of a five year pilot. Rather than protecting the best interests of the child, practices that punish and deter immigrant families violate fundamental domestic and international principles of family unity and are inconsistent with numerous U.S. child welfare and refugee laws and obligations.” Link to Letter # # # Media contacts: (Roybal-Allard) Ben Soskin at 202-225-1766 (Jayapal) Omer Farooque at 202-450-0088 (Thompson) Adam Comis at 202-225-9978 (Lofgren) Peter Whippy at 202-225-3072
02.08.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEElection Security Task Force Chairs Release Statement on Secretary Tillerson Comments on Russia Already Interfering in This Year’s Elections February 8, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, House Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) and Committee on House Administration Ranking Member Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Task Force on Election Security, released the below joint statement in reaction to Secretary of State Tillerson’s comments on Russia already interfering in this year’s elections. “Secretary Tillerson confirmed what Congressional Democrats have known since the ODNI released its report on election meddling: Russia is determined to interfere in our elections and disrupt our democratic processes. His candid admission that we are no better prepared to stop them than we were in 2016 is a testament to President Trump’s failure to acknowledge that Russia interfered in our elections once and is determined to do so again. His unwillingness to counter the threat should be appalling to all concerned Americans.” “While Republicans in Congress have turned a blind eye, the Trump Administration seems to do Putin’s bidding. Congressional Democrats, however, have spent the last year identifying vulnerabilities in our election systems and figuring out what we need to do to secure them. Next week, the Congressional Task Force on Election Security, which we Chair, will be releasing its final report, recommendations and new legislation to give our elections systems a much needed update.” “Congress fought hard to protect the integrity of elections against hanging chads 15 years ago, and certainly we should act to protect our elections from the Russian government today. It’s time for Republicans to wake up and join us in protecting our democracy from Putin.” The Election Security Taskforce wrote the House Appropriations Committee last November stressing the need to appropriate the remaining $400 million already authorized for election infrastructure under the Help America Vote Act for states to use to help secure their elections systems. # # # Media contacts: (Thompson) Adam Comis at 202-225-9978 (Brady) Peter Whippy at 202-225-3072
02.08.2018	Press Release: Congressman Bennie G. Thompson Announces Academy Nomination for Second Congressional District BOLTON, MS – Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announces the Military Academy nominee for the Second Congressional District. Michael Lawrence, Jr., has been nominated by United States Congressman Bennie G. Thompson and has received an offer of enrollment to the United States Air Force Academy. He will graduate from Jim Hill High School in Jackson, MS on May 18, 2018. He is currently the Captain of Jim Hill’s football team and has been a member of the National Honor Society for the last 4 years. He is currently a member of JROTC where he is the Assistant Automation Officer 2nd Lieutenant. Michael has been on honor roll for the last 4 years. In 2015, he received 1st place in the Mississippi Regional Science and Engineering Fair, and in 2017 he came in 2nd place. Michael is also dedicated to serving his community by volunteering with Mississippi State Hospital, Greater Northside M.B. Church, and assisting in the Water for Malawi Fundraiser. Michael is the son of Michael and Lynette Lawrence of Jackson, Mississippi. Each candidate received a “Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition” in recognition of their nomination to the respective military academy and for outstanding academic achievement. If you are interested in attending a Military Academy, you may contact Mr. Cedric Watkins, my academy representative at (662) 741-9003 or via e-mail at cedric.watkins@mail.house.gov.
02.08.2018	Congressman Thompson: FEMA Disaster Contracting Needs Reform WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security together with all Committee Democrats introduced legislation to require the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to conduct past performance reviews of a vendor before awarding a disaster contract valued at $1 million or more. “FEMA must conduct basic due diligence of vendors who seek disaster contracts, especially for essential provisions like food and tarps,” Thompson said. “A simple past performance review is critical to ensuring that FEMA works with the right contractors who can actually ensure that aid that is needed on the ground gets delivered.” Additionally, yesterday, Rep. Thompson sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen demanding answers regarding revelations that FEMA contracted with a vendor without undertaking a past performance review that, in the case of Tribute Contracting, LLC would have revealed prior performance issues, including the fact that other Federal agencies cancelled at least five prior government contracts with this firm for performance issues. A disturbing pattern has emerged of FEMA awarding contracts to companies that were unable to meet their obligations, resulting in delayed response to survivors and increased costs to taxpayers. ###
02.07.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEVela Announces Introduction of the Border and Ports Security Act February 7, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Congressman Filemon Vela (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Border and Maritime Subcommittee, announced introduction of H.R. 4940, the Border and Ports Security Act along with the Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS). This bill, which has the full support of the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU), would increase U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)’s capacity to screen passengers and facilitate trade at international airports, seaports and land ports of entry by authorizing additional CBP Officers (CBPOs) and Agriculture Specialists. “CBPOs, stationed at our ports of entry, screen more than 1 million foreign nationals and U.S. citizens and approximately $6.3 billion worth in imported goods at ports of entry annually,” said Rep. Vela. “The economy of the United States as a whole relies on the critical work that CBPOs perform every day, and it is imperative that our front-line personnel have the support, staffing, and resources they need for a safe and effective work environment.” Congressman Thompson added, “Critical staffing shortages at our air, sea, and land ports of entry have forced CBP officers to work 16-hour shifts and take temporary duty assignments. These conditions compromise homeland security, slow legitimate travel and trade that are essential to our economy, and burn out committed CBP officers. This legislation will ensure that CBP has the resources to address its long-standing and well-documented staffing gaps while taking into account the growing volume of trade and travel. I thank Congressman Vela for introducing this much-need homeland security legislation.” “When it comes to having enough Customs and Border Protection Officers to maintain the safe and secure operation of the 328 U.S. ports of entry, Representatives Thompson and Vela get it,” said NTEU President Tony Reardon. “Their legislation to hire 500 more CBPOs and 100 Agriculture Specialists every year until the agency is fully staffed is the right solution to the current staffing crisis at the ports of entry. CBP needs to hire 3,700 new Officers and 721 Agriculture Specialists, according to the agency’s own workload staffing model, and NTEU is proud to endorse this bill that would put an immediate dent in that contemptible vacancy rate. A CBP Officer and Agriculture Specialist hiring surge would immediately improve employee safety by reducing excessive overtime shifts; facilitate legitimate travel and trade that is currently slowed by the lack of personnel, and improve their ability to prevent the entry of high risk travelers and cargo through the ports.” In addition to Representative Vela and Ranking Member Thompson, original cosponsors of H.R. 4940 include Representatives Donald Payne (D-NJ), Nanette Barragan (D-CA), Val Demings (D-FL), Lou Correa (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) and Kathleen Rice (D-NY). Bill Fact Sheet # # # Media contacts: (Vela) Mickeala Carter at 202-568-1124 (Thompson) Adam Comis at 202-225-9978
02.02.2018	Congressman Bennie Thompson Announces $170,600 Awarded to Grenada County Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced The United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development has awarded a grant in the amount of $84,500 through the Rural Business Development Program and $86,100 through the Community Facilities Program to the Grenada County Board of Supervisors. The Rural Business Development funds will be used to purchase equipment (turret hydraulic press) for Provine Machine Works, a qualified small and emerging, woman-owned business in Grenada County. It is anticipated that 3 full-time jobs and 2 part-time jobs will be created. The Community Facilities funds will be used to purchase a backhoe for District II of Grenada County. The funds will also be used to purchase a dump truck for Grenada County District IV. The county currently has a truck that is worn out and cannot adequately service the area. The new truck will allow the County to adequately service the area. For additional information about the Rural Business Development funds contact Mr. Johnny Hayward at 662-226-1821 or Mr. Chad Bridges about the Community Facilities grant at 662-226-1821.
02.02.2018	Congressman Bennie Thompson Announces $110,651 Awarded to North Central Planning and Development District Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced The United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development/ Rural Business Development Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $110,651 to the North Central Planning and Development District. . The Rural Development funds will be used by North Central Planning & Development District to make loan(s) to third parties for economic development to eligible small and emerging businesses. The project service area is Town of Carrollton, City of Greenwood, City of Grenada, City of Koscuisko, City of Water Valley, City of Winona, City of Durant, City of Itta Bena, Town of Vaiden, and Town of Coffeeville. It is anticipated that as many as six (6) small businesses will be assisted and 13 new jobs will be created. For additional information contact Mr. Johnny Shell at 662-283-2675. ###
02.02.2018	Congressman Bennie Thompson Announces $30,000 Awarded to Town of Vaiden Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced The United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development has awarded a grant in the amount of $30,000 through the Special Evaluation Assistance for Rural Communities and Households Program to the Town of Vaiden. The Rural Business Development funds will be used to conduct a feasibility study of the town's current water system in relation to installing new radio read water meters. The study will evaluate whether the expense to purchase and install the new meters will be beneficial in terms of recovery of lost revenues and reducing water loss at the connection point of the old meters. For additional information contact Mayor Melvin Hawthorne at 662-464-5266
02.02.2018	Congressman Bennie Thompson Announces $37,162 Awarded to NSLC Southern, Inc. to Make Improvements to Lumber Mill Lighting System Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced The United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development has awarded a grant in the amount of $37,162 through the Rural Energy for America Program Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Loan and Grant Program to NSLC Southern, Inc. of Claiborne County to make energy efficiency improvements by upgrading lighting system to LED in a lumber mill. For additional information contact Travis McDonald at 843-907-8346 ###
02.02.2018	Congressman Bennie Thompson Announces $19,100 Awarded to the Town of Crenshaw Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced The United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development/ Communities Facilities Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $19,100 to the Town of Crenshaw. The Rural Development funds will be used to purchase a bush hog and tractor for the town of Crenshaw. For additional information contact Mayor Oscar Barlow at 662-382-5234. ###
02.02.2018	Congressman Bennie Thompson Announces $1.5 Million Awarded to Delta Regional Authority Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced The United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development/ Delta Health Care Services Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $1.5 Million to Delta Regional Authority. The Rural Development funds will be provided through the Rural Community Advancement Program (RCAP) and earmarked for use by Delta Regional Authority (DRA) to provide assistance to businesses and residents located in the Lower Mississippi Delta designated counties in eight states. The proposed project is for comprehensive regional economic development planning in rural areas, leadership planning and to fund projects eligible under the Rural Business Development Grant and Community Facility Grant programs. For additional information contact Ms. Amanda Allen at 662-624-8600. ###
02.02.2018	Congressman Bennie Thompson Announces $16,523 to William Brasswell to Make Improvements to Catfish Production Ponds Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced The United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development has awarded a grant in the amount of $16,523 through the Rural Energy for America Program Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Loan and Grant Program to William Brasswell of Humphrey County to make energy efficiency improvements to 12 catfish production ponds. For additional information contact William Brasswell at 662-247-1549.
02.02.2018	Congressman Bennie Thompson Announces $20,400 Awarded to the City of Port Gibson Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced The United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development/ Community Facilities Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $20,400 to the City of Port Gibson. . The Rural Development funds will be used to purchase two police cars for the City of Port Gibson. The new cars will provide the local police department with dependable transportation. For additional information contact Mayor Fred Reeves at 601-437-4234.
01.23.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson, Nadler, Cummings Demand Answers on the White House’s Security Clearance Process & Jared Kushner’s Interim Clearance January 23, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson, Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler, and Oversight & Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah Cummings sent a letter to White House Chief of Staff John Kelly to demand answers on how the Trump White House handles the security clearance process for its staff. Press reports revealing details of Jared Kushner’s one year old interim clearance calls the clearance adjudication process for White House staff into question. “We are writing to obtain information related to the White House’s interim security clearance process. According to press reports, a year after becoming a White House advisor, Jared Kushner still has access to our most critical national security information pursuant to an interim security clearance.” “Mr. Kushner’s case raises serious questions about whether his situation is an isolated one among White House senior staff. It also raises concerns about the clearance adjudication process for White House staff generally. It is unprecedented for fourteen individuals to have access to the highly classified President’s Daily Briefing, let alone a single individual who is unable to obtain security clearance all together.” “In an effort to bring more transparency and conduct effective oversight, Congress must have access to information about staff serving in our Nation’s highest office. While we understand you cannot speak to ongoing investigations, it is important for us to understand the reason for Kushner’s delayed security clearance, how many other White House staff are similarly situated, and determine what risks these delays may pose to our nation’s security.” Link to Letter # # # Media contacts: Adam Comis (Thompson): 202-225-9978 Shadawn Reddick-Smith/Daniel Schwarz (Nadler): 202- 225-6906 or 202-225-5635 Jennifer Werner/Aryele Bradford (Cummings): 202-226-5181
01.20.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson Statement on Trump ShutdownPresident Marks One Year in Office with Another Failure January 20, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the Trump Shutdown marking the end of President Trump’s first year in office: "It is truly shameful that President Trump marks the completion of his first year in office by overseeing - and being the root cause of - this federal government shutdown. Over the past weeks, it has been clear that the President has brought no shred of leadership to negotiations on DACA and immigration matters. He - as Senator Schumer indicated last night - seemed hell-bent on closing the government and dividing Americans. We, as Democrats, have no appetite to allow him to use DREAMers - or kids on S-CHIP - as a bargaining chips to get whatever he wants. This is his shutdown." "President Trump has been in office one year, and nothing could be more clear: the country is worse off and less safe because of his policies, poor management, and absent leadership. Against centuries of tradition and American values, President Trump is dead set on an exclusionary immigration system that keeps out those that want their chance at the American dream, be with their families, and add to our economy. President Trump claims he wants an immigration system with heart – but he canceled DACA for no reason, demands an unnecessary border wall while leaving taxpayers with the bill, and has banned immigration from certain majority-Muslim countries." “President Trump has also seemed to ignore the millions that faced natural disasters last year – including Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico and the wildfires in California. If helping those in need will not help him politically, it has become obvious that he has no interest. Not only has he not requested adequate assistance to help these areas, he seems ambivalent about Puerto Rico’s dire situation and lack of electricity. We still have no idea how many have perished there." "Worse yet, President Trump has ignored the rise of domestic terrorism and white supremacist terrorism. And over a year since Russia interfered in our election - a direct attack on our democracy - he seems to have done nothing to prevent it from happening again." "It is high time that President Trump takes the presidency seriously and understands it requires hard work and serious effort. 2018 must not be a repeat of 2017. He cannot ignore the threats our country face. An easy first act of good faith would be for the President to begin working with both parties in Congress to help the DREAMers - something he has supported in the past – and an overwhelming majority of Americans agree with." # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.19.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson Statement on Redacted Travel Ban Inspector General Report January 19, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General report on the implementation and roll out of President Trump’s first travel ban: “The heavily redacted Inspector General’s report on the roll out of President Trump’s first Muslim ban is a massive indictment of the Administration’s senior leadership at the Department of Homeland Security. Despite knowing that the executive order would be issued soon, former Secretary John Kelly and other senior officials involved in its roll out, like current Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, seemingly kept CBP in the dark for unknown reasons. According to the report, CBP was receiving tips from outside the Administration to figure out what was expected of them. It is clear that botched and uninformed management decisions caused the chaos was saw at many airports last year when CBP Officers were given unclear directions. This incompetence and lack of professionalism by senior leadership puts the Department’s national security mission at risk.” “Lastly, the redactions included in this report raise more questions. Former Inspector General John Roth stated that the Department’s decision to invoke ‘deliberative process privilege’ regarding this report was troubling. I agree. If these redactions are not intended to protect national security interests, then they are nothing more than the Department covering up its past actions. The Trump Administration is now keeping both Congress and the American people in the dark.” Link to Report # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.16.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson & Nadler: New DHS/DOJ Terrorism Report is Misleading & Perpetuates Trump’s Anti-Immigrant Views January 16, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler and House Homeland Security Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson today released a joint statement in response to a misleading report released by the Department of Justice and Department of Homeland Security regarding terrorism in America. “Today, the Trump Administration released a report that purports to claim that foreign-born individuals commit terror at very high rates. This misleading report relies on manufactured data to perpetuate a myth that immigrants—specifically, those from Muslim countries—are dangerous elements within our country. The Administration then uses these falsehoods as reasoning and license for policies that promote the continued abuse of our rights and civil liberties. “This report fails to consider the reality that homegrown extremists have killed more Americans than foreign terrorists since 9-11. Domestic terror is on the rise, and yet, the Trump Administration has repeatedly proposed sharp cuts to combat domestic terrorism and proposed the elimination of programs that counter domestic terror groups linked to white supremacy. “The DHS/DOJ report on ‘foreign-born terrorists’ is not a serious attempt to protect the safety of the American people. It is yet another example of this Administration’s effort to vilify the immigrant community and justify an exclusionary immigration policy. The American people will not be fooled by such naked bigotry, and we should not allow this Administration to get away with its abuse of the facts to further its extremist, xenophobic agenda.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis (Homeland) 202-225-9978 Shadawn Reddick-Smith (Judiciary) 202-225-6906 Daniel Schwarz (Nadler) 202-225-5635
01.11.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASETrump ‘Shithole’ Comments Show His True ColorsPOTUS in Private Shows Racial Bias while Forgetting American Values January 11, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on news reports that President Trump, during immigration policy negotiations, made disparaging comments about Haiti, El Salvador and African countries: “In contrast to President Trump’s self-proclaimed ‘performance’ put on in front of TV cameras at the White House Tuesday, his defamatory remarks against less affluent countries behind closed doors are a disturbing window into the racial bias that appears to be driving his immigration agenda.” “The President has been in office for a year and still does not understand the economic, cultural, and national security benefits that come with being a nation of immigrants. Immigrants come here from all over the world because they want to make a better life for themselves and their families – and we as a country are better for it. These legal immigrants contribute to our economy as they work towards the American dream. Democrats will continue to deal in good faith with all those that want to negotiate legislation to address the DREAMers, but it is increasingly difficult to believe the President intends to do the same.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.09.2018	For Immediate Release January 9, 2018 Contacts: Tim Mulvey (Engel): 202-226-9103 Eric Hersey (Waters): 202-225-4247 Shadawn Reddick-Smith/Daniel Schwarz (Nadler): 202- 225-6906 or 202-225-5635 Adam Comis (Thompson): 202-225-9978 Jennifer Werner/Aryele Bradford (Cummings): 202-226-5181 Jamie Fleet (Brady): 202-225-2061 Democratic Ranking Members Send Letter to Speaker Ryan on House Republicans’ Refusal to Fully Investigate Russia’s Threat to Our Democracy and National Security Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Ranking Members Eliot Engel, Maxine Waters, Jerrold Nadler, Bennie Thompson, Elijah Cummings and Robert Brady sent a letter to Speaker Ryan today urging House Republicans to join Democrats to fully investigate and address Russia’s threat to our democracy and national security. This letter comes as we mark one year since the Office of the Director of National Intelligence’s report confirming Russia’s meddling into the 2016 election and America’s continued vulnerability to foreign interference. The letter asks House Republicans to fully investigate a number of key questions that have come to light in the year since the ODNI’s report and calls for a meeting with leaders from both parties to discuss how to respond in a bipartisan way to these serious concern. “As Members of Congress, we take a solemn oath to support and defend the Constitution and protect the American people. The failure of House Republicans to take strong and swift action in the face of Russia’s assault on our democracy is beneath the dignity of this oath. The strength and integrity of our democracy, the rule of law, and our democratic institutions hang in the balance.” Full text of the letter The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker of the House of Representatives H-232, United States Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Mr. Speaker: January 6th marked one year since the Office of the Director of National Intelligence released its ominous report documenting Russia’s multifaceted campaign to interfere in the 2016 elections and warning that Russia is likely to do it again. Over the past year, our nation has learned more about the breadth and magnitude of Russia’s growing threat against our democracy and our national security. We now know that Russia used its influence to help elect Donald Trump, sought to interfere in at least 21 state elections, executed a propaganda campaign to manipulate and sow discord among the American people, and hacked our nation’s critical infrastructure, including U.S. electricity grids. Since then, President Trump’s former National Security Adviser, Michael Flynn, and the President’s former campaign policy adviser, George Papadopoulos, both have pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about their contacts with Russia. President Trump also fired James Comey, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, because he continued to investigate the “Russia thing” while refusing to pledge his loyalty to President Trump. Russia’s aggression towards the United States and the Trump Administration’s efforts to cover up its communications with the Russians demand an immediate, whole-of-government response. Yet, Republican House leaders and Committee Chairmen have blocked, stonewalled, and rejected our basic requests to investigate, hold public hearings, and advance legislation to address these matters. House Republicans have chosen to put President Trump ahead of our national interests. Rather than pursue the truth on behalf of the American people, House Republicans have waged an aggressive campaign to shut down congressional and criminal investigations into Russia’s attack, they have launched and re-launched investigations into baseless conspiracy theories to deflect attention and resources, they have defamed our nation’s top law enforcement and intelligence agencies, and they have sought to discredit anyone seeking to uncover wrongdoing, including Special Counsel Robert Mueller, a decorated war veteran. To date, the House has held only one full committee public hearing on the most significant finding of the ODNI report: that our elections continue to be vulnerable to foreign interference in the future. Instead, they have relegated this issue to a handful of toothless subcommittee hearings, which have been marked by the Trump Administration’s refusal to provide documents requested by Democrats that would help inform our work, such as documents relating to Russia’s attempted attacks against 21 state election systems that are currently being withheld by the Department of Homeland Security. Our country, our democracy, and the American public deserve better. As Members of Congress, we take a solemn oath to support and defend the Constitution and protect the American people. The failure of House Republicans to take strong and swift action in the face of Russia’s assault on our democracy is beneath the dignity of this oath. The strength and integrity of our democracy, the rule of law, and our democratic institutions hang in the balance. We ask you to change course and begin demonstrating true leadership on this critical national security issue. We request that House Republicans join us in fulfilling our sworn constitutional duty by ensuring that each committee of jurisdiction thoroughly investigates the following key questions: How were Russian hackers able to penetrate our state election systems, and how do we protect our elections infrastructure in advance of upcoming elections this year and beyond? What vulnerabilities remain in our electrical grids and infrastructure networks, and what can we be doing to ensure our safety and security? How was social media leveraged to influence voters, and what can be done to ensure that American voters know where their information is coming from? What was the extent of the Trump campaign’s involvement in Russia’s operation to hack and disseminate material damaging to Hillary Clinton? In light of President Trump’s refusal to release his tax returns, what is the extent of his and his family’s business and financial ties to Russians, and how might those ties constitute leverage over the President and his family? In light of Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ testimony in October that the Trump Administration is not doing enough to stop future Russian interference and that “the matter is so complex that for most of us we are not able to fully grasp the technical dangers that are out there,” what steps has the Trump Administration taken to hold Russia accountable for its attack and ensure the safety of our elections from foreign interference? Why is the Trump Administration dragging its feet on implementing the sanctions against Russia that were adopted by Congress with widespread bipartisan support? What are the extent and nature of efforts by the Trump Administration to impede criminal and congressional investigations into the Trump campaign’s involvement and support for Russian interference into our elections? We are extremely concerned by the Intelligence Community’s warning that Russia may attempt to interfere with future elections—including the upcoming midterm elections—and we are deeply troubled by the lack of action by the Trump Administration and House Republicans in responding to this core threat to our democracy. We ask you to review this request and to schedule a meeting with leaders of both parties so we may work together to respond to the matters of serious concern raised in this letter. Thank you for your consideration of these requests. Sincerely, Congressman Eliot Engel, Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee Congressman Jerrold Nadler, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee Congressman Bennie Thompson, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee Congressman Elijah Cummings, Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee Congressman Robert Brady, Ranking Member of the House Administration Committee # # #
01.08.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson: DACA Not a Bargaining Chip for President’s Fantasy Wish List January 7, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the Administration’s immigration and border security demands: "This latest cynical effort to use vulnerable DACA youth as a bargaining chip to secure President Trump's fantasy of a closed immigration system and an unnecessary border wall is a new low for this Administration. These demands are non-starters for Democrats and only show us that the President is not acting in good faith. The American people overwhelmingly agree that legalization and citizenship for Dreamers is the right thing to do. This is what Congress should be focused on. Democrats welcome the opportunity to engage with the White House on these important issues but not while the President continually threatens these innocent young people." # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
01.08.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson Statement on DHS Decision to End Protected Status for Salvadorans January 8, 2018 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement after the Department of Homeland Security announced that it will terminate Temporary Protected Status for immigrants from El Salvador: “Today’s decision to cancel Temporary Protected Status for people from El Salvador is just the latest in a string of heartless, xenophobic actions from the Trump Administration. Many of those affected by today’s decision have been in United States for decades, have American citizen children, and have deep economic and family ties here. Forcing them out of the only country many of them have ever known would not only upend their lives and potentially subject them to terrible violence in El Salvador, but would have a destructive effect on our communities and our Nation’s economy. Clearly the President is trying to use this group of people as the latest bargaining chip in his anti-immigrant agenda. It is now critical that Congress act and protect these contributing members of our society. This is simply the right thing to do.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
12.15.2017	National Association of Secretaries of State Call on Congress to Provide Missing Funds Needed for Election Security WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Congressional Task Force on Election Security, chaired by Committee on House Administration Ranking Member Robert Brady (D-Pa.) and Committee on Homeland Security Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-Miss.) applauded the National Association of Secretaries of State’s call for Congress to provide the remaining $396 million in outstanding Help America Vote Act (HAVA) funds to assist in updating and maintaining our nation’s aging election systems. Russia’s unprecedented assault on the country’s elections in 2016, targeting 21 states’ voting systems, exposed the urgent need to protect these systems – which includes voting machines and voter registration databases. Currently, there is nearly $400 million remaining from the 2002 Help America Vote Act that can be used for this purpose. In November, Brady and Thompson sent a letter to the leaders of the House Appropriations Committee to request fully appropriating the remaining HAVA funds to help states secure their voting infrastructure. Congressman Brady and Congressman Thompson issues the following statement today: “When a sovereign nation attempts to meddle in our elections, it is an attack on our country. We cannot leave states on their own to defend against the sophisticated tactics of state actors like Russia. As the National Association of Secretaries of State correctly stated, the money that states desperately need to take crucial security steps has already been authorized by Congress, is available, and can be appropriated right away. It is time our colleagues in Congress recognize that ensuring the security of our election systems is a bipartisan issue. With the next federal election less than a year away, Congress must act immediately.” Although the election was over a year ago, federal election security action has been nonexistent. Last month, Attorney General Jeff Sessions admitted to Congress that he had “not followed through” to ensure that the 2018 elections are secure. According to the National Association of State Secretaries, providing the remaining funding under HAVA will help states enhance the efficiency and security of elections, including through the purchase of new voting systems, the implementation of additional cybersecurity tools, and the hiring of additional IT professionals.
12.13.2017	For Immediate Release Contact : Guy King December 13, 2017 (202) 225-5876 Congressman Thompson’s Statement On U.S. Committee on Homeland Security’s Passage of His Bill Protecting Places of Worship Against Terrorism WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the Committee passage of the Securing American Non-Profit Organizations Against Terrorism Act of 2017: “Regrettably, the volume of homegrown violent extremist threats to houses of worship and other non-profits has grown significantly over the past year. This threat is not new and it is not limited to big cities. We cannot forget that in 2015, a man trying to start a “race war” murdered nine parishioners in a mass shooting at the AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina.” “My legislation, which passed today with bipartisan support, seeks to ensure that DHS continues to be a valuable partner to non-profits that are at risk of a terrorist attack. As places of public gathering without extensive security protection, churches and other houses of worship are considered soft targets, much like shopping malls, restaurants, and theaters. My bill directs FEMA to set aside $15 million to help protect at-risk institutions and it sends a message of support to non-profit organizations across the country that homegrown extremists and others with violent ideologies seek to attack.” Copy of the bill is attached. ###
12.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson, Watson Coleman: After NYC Attack TSA Must Focus on Overdue Security Mandates December 12, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective Security, sent a letter to the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) regarding two surface transportation security mandates that have not been implemented and are long overdue. Yesterday’s attack in New York City underscores the urgent need for TSA to move forward with these critical mandates with renewed urgency. Link to Letter # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
12.06.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDoes the New Homeland Security Secretary Agree with Trump? December 6, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, sent the below letter to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, on her first day, reminding her of President Trump’s past inflammatory statements on homeland security matters and inquiring if she agrees with these statements. Department of Homeland Security’s future actions and policymaking on these topics impact all Americans. Link to Letter # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
12.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson Statement on DHS Confirmation Vote December 5, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on news the Senate has confirmed Kirstjen Nielsen to be Homeland Security Secretary: “While I am glad that the Department of Homeland Security will soon finally have a permanent leader for the first time since July, there is still much we do not know about Ms. Nielsen’s plans for the Department. She still must show us she has the ability lead a workforce of 240,000 while keeping the country safe and secure. She also must show us she will work with Congress as a coequal partner. I, like many Americans, have been concerned with the precarious direction this Administration has pushed the Department in since January. It is clear the Department has been a political tool of the White House tasked with enacting campaign promises while lacking any standard definition of accountability. Instead, the Department should focus its time and energy on empowering its frontline workforce to keep our skies, waters, and borders from foreign and domestic threats.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
12.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson: DHS Border Numbers Show No Need for Wall December 5, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) end-of-year immigration enforcement numbers: “Today’s report from DHS show that with border apprehensions continuing to decline to a 45-year low, there is absolutely no need to waste billions of taxpayer dollars on an unnecessary border wall. The Administration can try to twist these numbers into whatever they please, but the fact remains that after unprecedented investments in border security over the last decade, the border has become harder to cross and fewer people are trying. Focusing massive, new government resources on a campaign promise would be a foolish and irresponsible exercise.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
12.04.2017	For Immediate Release Contact : Guy King December 4, 2017 (202) 225-5876 Congressman Thompson’s Statement on President Trump’s Attendance to MS Civil Rights Museum Opening WASHINGTON – Today, U.S Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) released the following statement: “With President Donald Trump accepting Gov. Phil Bryant’s invitation to attend the opening of the Mississippi Civil Rights Museum, I am hopeful he will begin to understand the pain he is causing in the black and underserved communities across America,” Thompson said. “His unfair budget cuts in agriculture, education, healthcare and housing disproportionately impacts people of color and is viewed by many as an act reminiscent of Jim Crow policies of the south.”
12.01.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASETroublesome: New FEMA Request for $100 Million Single Vendor Puerto Rico Recovery Contract December 1, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, sent a letter to Acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke regarding a Request for Information (RFI) issued by FEMA for Resource Capability and Transportation Support needs in the wake of extensive hurricane damage in Puerto Rico. The contract to a single vendor could be worth more than $100 million. Letter excerpts: “We have certainly seen the danger in awarding a single vendor a contract of this magnitude, namely the award of a now-canceled $300 million contract to Whitefish Energy Holdings, a company that clearly lacked the capacity to manage the reconstruction of the Puerto Rico power grid.” “It goes without saying that those directly impacted by Hurricanes Irma and Maria should be the first in line to participate in rebuilding and recovery efforts. Small, local, and minority-owned businesses should be granted a fair opportunity to contract with the federal government.” Link to letter # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
11.30.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASERanking Member Bennie Thompson Hearing Statement World Wide Threats: Keeping America Secure in the New Age of Terror November 30, 2017 November 30, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – In the wake of the disturbing rise in domestic terrorism in recent years, Democratic Members of this Committee have repeatedly asked for a hearing on this important topic. While this hearing is our annual one examining worldwide threats, a great deal of our conversation will likely be focused on the terror threat from right here at home. Incidents like the 2015 killing of nine churchgoers by a white supremacist at Mother Emmanuel Church in Charleston and the hate-fueled violence that left a young woman dead and 19 others injured during a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville earlier this year highlight the threat posed by domestic extremists. Domestic terrorist organizations have even adopted some of the same techniques for recruitment and radicalization as foreign terrorist organizations, using the Internet to reach followers and coordinate their actions. Unfortunately, President Trump insists on fueling the fire of hatred and extremism in America, calling the marchers in Charlottesville “very fine people” and just yesterday re-tweeting inflammatory anti-Muslim videos posted by a far-right British organization. James Clapper, the former Director of National Intelligence, called Trump’s re-tweeting of the videos “bizarre and disturbing” and said his action undermines our relationship with our “friends and allies.” Americans should be able to look to our President for a steady hand and responsible leadership in uncertain times, but unfortunately President Trump consistently conducts himself in a way that jeopardizes our security and is not befitting of the office he holds. Also, though they cannot say so themselves, the President’s actions make the already difficult jobs of the witnesses joining us on the first panel today even harder. The Department of Homeland Security, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and National Counterterrorism Center play key roles in securing the homeland from terrorists both foreign and domestic. I hope to hear from these witnesses today about the challenges they face, what emerging threats we should be aware of, and how Congress can support them in their mission, consistent with our American laws and values. Since much of our focus is typically on foreign terrorists, today I am especially interested in hearing how the witnesses assess the threat from domestic extremist and terrorist groups and learning what can be done to protect us from this rising concern. I also look forward to hearing from our second panel of witnesses on this topic later this morning. They bring special expertise on domestic extremism and terrorism issues and I hope Members will hear what they have to say and engage in a thoughtful dialogue. The Southern Poverty Law Center in particular is dedicated to fighting hate and seeking justice and equality for all Americans, and I look forward to their recommendations for countering the ideologies that are inspiring violence in America. I had hoped to have NAACP testify as well, but their invitation was issued less than 24 hours prior to the hearing and the late notice prevents their participation today. I look forward to inviting them to testify at a future hearing. In closing, I want to say that we know there are those around the world who seek to come here and do Americans harm. Those charged with preventing such attacks have the unwavering support of all the Members of this Committee, consistent with the laws and values of our Nation. I hope that the same attention and resources will be dedicated to fighting domestic extremism and terrorism here at home to ensure the security of all Americans. # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
11.28.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASERepublicans Refuse NAACP Witness for Domestic Terrorism Hearing November 28, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, sent the below letter to Committee Chairman Michael McCaul protesting his exclusion of the NAACP from a full Committee hearing Thursday on homeland threats and domestic terrorism: I write regarding our Full Committee hearing entitled "Worldwide Threats: Keeping America Secure in the New Age of Terror" scheduled for November 30, 2017. As you know, I have requested that representatives from the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) be invited to testify at the hearing to share their perspectives on the disturbing rise of domestic terrorism. I am greatly disappointed that, to date, you have not honored this longstanding request and instead have issued an invitation only to SPLC. In the wake of incidents like the 2015 Charleston church shooting and the attack in Charlottesville earlier this year, all Members of the Committee could benefit from the NAACP's important testimony. I would also point out that the Majority selected all three witnesses on the first panel and two of the three witnesses currently on the second panel with no input from or consultation with Democrats. Certainly, there is no Committee rule prohibiting the NAACP from being invited. This Committee has a long history of bipartisanship on matters related to securing the homeland from terrorism. I hope you will consider this request with that in mind. On behalf of the Democratic Members of the Committee, I urge you to issue an invitation to NAACP for this hearing. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Link to Letter # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
11.20.2017	Election Security Task Force Requests Funding for State Election Security, Replacing Outdated Voting Machines November 20, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – The Congressional Task Force on Election Security, chaired by Committee on Homeland Security Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) and Committee on House Administration Ranking Member Robert Brady (D-PA) sent a letter to the leaders of the House Appropriations Committee to request funding to help states secure their voting infrastructure. Russia’s unprecedented assault on the country’s elections in 2016, targeting 21 states’ voting systems, exposed the urgent need to protect these systems – which includes voting machines and voter registration databases. Currently, there is nearly $400 million remaining from the 2002 Help America Vote Act that could be used for this purpose. The Brennan Center for Justice has reported that replacing outdated, paperless voting machines would cost up to $400 million. Although the election was over a year ago, federal election security action has been nonexistent. Just last week, Attorney General Jeff Sessions admitted to Congress that he had “not followed through” to ensure that the 2018 elections are secure. Congressman Thompson and Congressman Brady released the following statement along with their letter: “When a sovereign nation attempts to meddle in our elections, it is an attack on our country. We created the Task Force on Election Security to better understand what can be done to protect our elections going forward. Finding that voting machines and voter databases can be easily hacked, there is a clear and urgent need for federal funding to help states secure their elections. We cannot leave states on their own to defend against the sophisticated tactics of state actors like Russia. The money that states desperately need to take crucial security steps is available and can be appropriated right now. We urge our colleagues in Congress to recognize with us that ensuring the security of our election systems is a bipartisan issue. With the next federal election less than a year away, Congress must act now.” Link to Letter to Appropriations Task Force Preliminary Findings and Recommendations # # # Media contact: (Thompson) Adam Comis at 202-225-9978 (Brady) Peter Whippy at 202-225-1943
11.17.2017	Thompson Statement on Emergency Supplemental Request November 17, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the Administration’s $44 billion emergency supplemental request: “The Administration’s third disaster supplemental request is an insult to all of our fellow Americans that are still recovering from major natural disasters. President Trump seems to have forgotten that the nation just faced three catastrophic hurricanes. We must not forget the situation in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands is still dire. Somehow – yet unsurprisingly – this funding request ignores the wildfire devastation in California.” “To be clear, this request’s stinginess is both contemptable and ineffectual. Shortchanging our recovery efforts serves no one and will only add to the suffering of the victims of these disasters. Worse yet, seeking offsets from critical programs that help the poor and by extending arbitrary budget caps will only add to the damage this Administration’s priorities have inflicted on the country. I hope Congress can again come together in bipartisan fashion to ignore this request and agree on a more appropriate number.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
10.30.2017	Republicans Protect Trump Administration and Cancel Hearing with San Juan Mayor The Majority has no interest in oversight or the truth October 30, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the below statement after Committee Republicans canceled Wednesday’s hearing “Assessing FEMA’s Preparedness and Response Capabilities” with FEMA Administrator Brock Long and San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz. No reason or rescheduled date was given. "I invited the Mayor of San Juan to testify before our Committee’s hearing on FEMA’s preparedness and response capabilities so our entire Committee could receive an accurate picture of what is happening in Puerto Rico from someone who has been on the ground since day one. It is inexcusable that the Republicans have delayed this hearing for the third time with no rational reason in a blatant attempt to silence the Mayor and shield the Trump Administration from another bad news story. It is clear that House Republicans and the Administration fear the Mayor and her telling her story. Now the Committee on Homeland Security – the authorizing committee of DHS – won't be hearing from the Mayor or FEMA Administrator Long even though they will both be on Capitol Hill this week." "I visited Puerto Rico earlier this month and it is painfully clear that the real story of the plight of our fellow Americans in a humanitarian crisis is not being told. The federal response to hurricanes hitting Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands is inadequate in almost every respect and the situation is still dire. The American people deserve to know what went wrong during this Administration’s first hurricane season so we can make sure none of our fellow Americans ever have to go through this again.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
10.23.2017	MEDIA ADVISORYElection Security Task Force to Hold Second Public Forum October 23, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – On Tuesday, October 24th, the Congressional Task Force on Election Security, will hold its second public forum: Securing America’s Elections: Preparing for 2018 and Beyond. The task force will hear from Rhode Island Secretary of State Nellie Gorbea, Virginia Elections Commissioner Edgardo Cortés, and Commissioner and Vice-Chair of the Election Assistance Commission, Thomas Hicks. The forum will focus on steps states are taking to secure their elections, and what the federal government can do to do assist. Details: “Securing America’s Elections: Preparing for 2018 and Beyond” Congressional Task Force on Election Security Forum 12 p.m. Tuesday, October 24th 1310 Longworth House Office Building Panelists: Nellie Gorbea, Rhode Island Secretary of State Edgardo Cortés, Virginia Department of Elections Commissioner Thomas Hicks, Election Assistance Commission Commissioner & Vice-Chair The Congressional Task Force on Election Security was created this summer to following the news that Russia interfered and attempted to influence the 2016 Presidential election. The Task Force seeks to identify solutions that will safeguard our elections going forward. It is chaired by Committee on Homeland Security Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) and Committee on House Administration Ranking Member Robert Brady (D-PA). The Task Force had its first public forum in September and heard from former Department of Homeland Security officials. # # # Media contact: (Thompson) Adam Comis at 202-225-9978 (Brady) Jamie Fleet at 202-225-2061
10.16.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson: Senate Must Scrutinize DHS Nominee History & Experience October 16, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, sent a letter to Senator Ron Johnson, Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, urging him to scrutinize Kirstjen Nielsen’s professional background and experience thoroughly during her confirmation process to potentially become Homeland Security Secretary. Excerpt from letter: While I am pleased the President has finally named a nominee for this critical national security position, I am greatly troubled by Ms. Nielsen’s record as Senior Director for Preparedness and Response at the White House Homeland Security Council during the Bush Administration’s botched response to Hurricane Katrina. Given the ongoing tragedy in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, along with other homeland security challenges facing our Nation, the Department of Homeland Security must have a proven, capable leader as Secretary. Unfortunately, Ms. Nielsen’s record raises questions about her suitability for such a position. Link to letter News Article # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
10.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson, Payne to Trump: You Must Commit to Puerto Rico Recovery October 12, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Donald Payne Jr. (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response and Communications, sent a letter to President Trump after yet another series of injurious tweets on Puerto Rico and the recovery efforts after Hurricane Maria. Reps. Thompson and Payne urge President Trump not to renege on the federal government’s commitment to Puerto Rico’s recovery and demand he ensure the federal government tells the truth on the ongoing response efforts there. Congressman Thompson also released the following statement: “Today’s tweets from President Trump are, as I’ve said before, unbefitting of any president and are quite frankly heinous. It is beyond comprehension that the President is chomping at the bit to get the federal government out of Puerto Rico leaving our fellow Americans to somehow recover and rebuild on their own. Unfortunately, it seems that the President has made some sort of inhuman calculus that helping Americans in Puerto Rico is of no political benefit. The lack of leadership coming from this Administration when it comes to helping Americans in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands continues to be appalling to those of us who know that much more needs to be done. Instead of being on a constant misinformation and spin campaign, with hopes that the real stories never get out, it is high time this Administration gets to work.” Link to Letter # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
10.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson, Velázquez Seek Audit of Maria Death TollWith Conflicting Reports, Lawmakers Ask for Thorough Investigation into Total Fatalities October 12, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Reps. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, wrote the U.S. Department of Homeland Security asking for an investigation into underreporting in the official death toll following Hurricane Maria. In light of news reports suggesting that numbers could be much higher than the official count of 45 lives lost, the lawmakers asked for an official review of casualty counts. “The American people deserve to know what’s happening to their fellow U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico,” Velázquez said. “Given recent reports suggesting that the death toll is much higher than is being officially acknowledged, we need a swift and thorough investigation to ensure the real magnitude of this crisis is made public.” “Having just been in Puerto Rico last weekend, it is clear that the real story of what is happening is not being told by this Administration,” said Thompson. “The federal response is woefully adequate and now we are seeing numerous reports that the death toll is unknown or not being reported accurately. The whole nation deserves to know what is happening to our fellow citizens.” Link to letter # # # Media contacts: (Thompson) Adam Comis at 202-225-9978 (Velázquez) Alex Haurek at 202-225-2361
10.11.2017	For Immediate Release Contact : Guy King October 11, 2017 (202) 225-5876 Congressman Thompson Announces FEMA Grants To the Second District WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) announced four U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency grants totaling $10,168,502 for Yazoo, Holmes, Montgomery counties and the city of Durant. The grants will be cover the cost of debris removal in result of the severe storm that took place on April 30, 2017. “The April storm took a toll on Mississippians residing in all of the counties affected,” Thompson said. “Six months later, we are still in the process of rebuilding. I am hopeful the reimbursement grants awarded by FEMA will be used to aid in moving forward from the devastating storm that occurred.” Yazoo County will receive an award of $3,520,577.96. Holmes County is to receive the amount of $3,476,343.74. Montgomery County will be awarded $1,631,892.58. And, the city of Durant will receive $1,539,687.73. ###
10.11.2017	For Immediate Release Contact : Guy King October 11, 2017 (202) 225-5876 Congressman Thompson’s Statement on DHS Secretary Nomination WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the below statement on the news that the President has nominated Kirstjen Nielsen to be Homeland Security Secretary: “I am pleased that the President has finally made a nomination for Secretary of Homeland Security after letting the critical national security position remain vacant as the nation faced multiple major hurricanes and a domestic terrorism attack,” Thompson said. “I am eager to hear from Ms. Nielsen on what her main priorities are for the Department and its 230,000 employees.” He continued: “However, I am very concerned about her past work in the Bush Administration during its botched response to Hurricane Katrina and am fearful that DHS – as well as this President – has not learned all the lessons from that tragedy given what we are seeing unravel in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. It is extremely important that the DHS Secretary stay above the partisan fray and not allow the position be a political pawn of the White House. DHS has not been without problems, but has made great strides in improving its workforce since its creation and we must not allow these gains go to waste.” ###
10.06.2017	For Immediate Release Contact : Guy King October 6, 2017 (202) 225-5876 Congressman Thompson Joins CODEL to Puerto Rico WASHINGTON – Tomorrow, Saturday Oct. 7, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, will join a bipartisan Congressional delegation to Puerto Rico to survey hurricane damage and the government response. “It is clear that the real story of what is happening in Puerto Rico is not coming through,” Thompson said. “Our fellow citizens are in a humanitarian crisis and need our help. Most of the island is without adequate access to food, water, and power and we have seen little substantive progress. Since the federal government seems more concerned with assuring everyone they are doing a fantastic job – without much evidence – it is critical that we try to see what is really happening on the ground with our own eyes. I particularly hope to learn about where and why the federal response is lacking, if smaller islands like Vieques are being adequately helped, and how the Red Cross is assisting.” Thompson continued: “I witnessed the horrors of Hurricane Katrina firsthand and I now fear we are seeing the same obvious lack of direction and attention. Congress will soon be funding what is necessary for the continuing response and recovery and it is essential we have all the information possible.” ###
10.04.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASERanking Member Bennie Thompson Statement: The Taking Americans' Land to Build Trump's Wall Act (H.R. 3548) October 4, 2017 - A central promise in President Trump’s campaign was that he would build a “big, beautiful wall” across the entire Southern border and Mexico would pay for it. There was a time, in the not too distant past, when this Committee cared about facts, data, and results. We supported DHS having a border strategy, collecting metrics on the effectiveness of operations, and deploying personnel, equipment, and infrastructure to adjust to threats. Last month, the Department of Homeland Security provided evidence that our responsible approach to border security is paying off. In its 20-page report, DHS concluded "available data indicate that the southwest land border is more difficult to illegally cross today than ever before." DHS found that the inflow of illegal crossers is down as are apprehensions rates. It is getting harder and harder to cross, and less people are trying. Yet, here we are today, considering a misguided, unnecessary, fiscally-irresponsible measure to formally authorize President Trump’s Wall at all costs. We will hear throughout the day that this is a $15 billion bill. Actually, the costs are much higher and, one thing is for sure, they will not be borne by Mexico. It will be American taxpayers, landowners, the environment, and Native Americans that will bear the costs. I have seen estimates that construction costs for the Wall could be between $20 to $70 billion, and, since H.R. 3548 does not include any mileage limitations, specifications, or cost controls, there is no telling how much it will actually cost to build. Today, the Federal government only owns a third of those sections of the Southwest border that do not have physical barriers. As such, to fulfill President Trump’s promise of a “big, beautiful wall,” H.R. 3548 would trigger the most extensive Federal Takings that this nation has seen in years. This is not just my expectation. The President made it clear that he expects to pursue legal actions against ranchers and small landowners and wants to hire a team of eminent domain attorneys to do it. If history is any indication, when the Federal government wants land to build barriers, it is ranchers and small landowners who bare the biggest costs. A decade after the Secure Fence Act, there are still 93 Americans waiting to get paid for land taken by the Federal government. The Federal government might just see a quarter acre of land as worth a couple hundred dollars but to a landowner who has had it in his family for generations, it is priceless. Additionally, the environment along the border would harmed. Big Bend National Park, Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge, and other Federal lands would be carved up. Also carved up would be the habitat and endangered species that they protect. It would make it difficult for wildlife to move across the border including American Jaguars and ocelots—which have begun to return to various parts of the U.S. after a long absence. A 28,000 member Native American tribe, the Tohono O’odham Nation would also pay a steep price. This tribe controls 75 miles along the U.S.-Mexico border and one tribe member explained, the wall would cut “through our ancestral land, and it divides families that have been able to go back and forth freely since before the border line was drawn.” The bill has hidden costs too. On the top of page 73, it states, “There are authorized to be appropriated to U.S. Customs and Border Protection such sums as may be necessary…” to increase the annual rate of basic pay of CBP employees. I believe that CBP personnel should be adequately paid but the way this bill goes about it calls into question the seriousness of this effort. This “such sums” language and the absence of offsets for the $15 billion authorization violate the General Protocols issued by Republican House Leadership for bills to be considered in the 115th Congress. The bill before us would authorize Trump’s Border Wall at all costs. It is a $15 billion boondoggle that abandons past bipartisan efforts to stop throwing money at the border in an ad hoc way in favor of strategically deploying resources. I hope that after today, we can have a serious conversation about the border and move forward together in a productive manner. # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
10.02.2017	For Immediate Release Contact: Guy King October 2, 2017 (202)226-5804 Congressman Thompson’s Statement on GOP Tax Overhaul WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) released his statement on the Republican Tax Overhaul. “The Ryan-McConnell tax framework will leave thousands of low-income and middle-class Mississippians at an unfair disadvantage,” Thompson said. “They will pay more in taxes, while Republicans ensure the wealthy continue to thrive at the expense of others.” ###
10.02.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thompson Statement on Las Vegas Shooting October 2, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the mass shooting in Las Vegas last night: “Today, our thoughts and prayers are with the people of Las Vegas and all who were affected by the terrible mass shooting last night. We are forever thankful to the first responders who put their lives on the line to help those in need. Mass shootings have been too common in recent years and it is clear that much more needs to be done. Only if we work together can we counter the forces of terror and hate – no matter the source.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
09.29.2017	For Immediate Release Contact : Guy King September 29, 2017 (202) 226-5804 Reps. Thompson, Jackson Lee and Green Present HBCU Game Day Offering WASHINGTON – U.S Representatives Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02), Shelia Jackson Lee (TX-18) and Al Green (TX-09) will host an offering after the annual Alcorn State University and Texas Southern University football game. Congressman Bennie G. Thompson: “As a two-time HBCU graduate, I am deeply committed to preserving these institutions to ensure they continue educating future generations of our youth,” Thompson said. “I am confident in Alcorn pulling a win against Texas Southern because no one knows football better than a Mississippi SWAC school.” Congresswoman Shelia Jackson Lee: “Given Texas Southern University’s illustrious heritage of educating African American students and inspiring them to achieve their dreams, I have no doubt that the TSU Tigers will reinforce this tradition of excellence when the Alcorn Braves encounter the #TSUNAMI. TS-TS-TSU! I thought you knew! #TSU” The game will take place at the BBVA Compass Stadium in Houston, Texas on Friday, September 29, 2017, at 8:00 P.M. The three members of Congress have agreed to offer one another catfish or bar-b-que if the HBCU in the member’s district and/or state wins the game. The Alcorn State University and Texas Southern University face-off comes a week after National HBCU Week, which is dedicated to bring awareness of the importance of HBCUs nationwide. Alcorn State University sits in Mississippi’s Second Congressional District, represented by Thompson, while Texas Southern University is located in Texas’ Eighteenth Congressional District, represented by Jackson Lee and the alma mater of Green. If you have any questions please contact Guy King at guy.king@mail.house.gov (Thompson), Rucks Russell at rucks.russell@mail.house.gov (Jackson Lee) or Kamau Marshall at Kamau.marshall@mail.house.gov (Green). ###
09.27.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThompson: Federal Response in Puerto Rico Woefully Inadequate September 27, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the current situation and federal response in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands following Hurricanes Irma and Maria: “It is painfully clear that the devastation in Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands point to a woefully inadequate federal response after the islands received direct hits from two major hurricanes. If not immediately addressed, the unfolding humanitarian crisis will inflict more lasting damage to the islands. This lack of action shows that the President and his Administration has yet to comprehend the gravity and impact of what is happening on our own soil. Having lived through Hurricane Katrina, I recognize the President’s obvious lack of direction and attention--and I now fear we could see history repeating itself.” “Instead of blaming the Puerto Rican people for the situation they are in, congratulating himself for a job well done, and obsessing over NFL politics, we need the President in the situation room coordinating an efficient response and requesting emergency relief from Congress. Instead of having Congressional Republicans on a retreat to announce tax cuts for the rich, we need a working Congress ensuring emergency aid is available so the federal government has the resources it needs. The President must realize what is unfolding under his watch. The lack of urgency from our government is putting human life at risk. Our fellow American citizens in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands are suffering. They need help and they need it now.” # # # Media contact: Adam Comis at (202) 225-9978
09.15.2017	Congressman Thompson Urges Hosemann to Remove Russian Software from Mississippi Electoral Systems Washington – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) sent a letter to Delbert Hosemann, Mississippi Secretary of State, urging him to remove any use of Kaspersky, a Russian cyber-security company, software from Mississippi’s electoral systems. “As voter registration databases house such information, we must be certain the software used does not give Russia or other malicious actors a back door to it,” Thompson wrote in the letter. “Therefore, I strongly advise that you take the necessary steps to identify any use or presence of Kaspersky products on Mississippi election systems and remove it.” Rep. Thompson, Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, also sent a letter to Chairman of the House Committee on Administration, U.S. Representative Gregg Harper (MS-03) today, suggesting Harper advise the entire U.S. House of Representatives to follow suit by removing any Kaspersky software from its’ network. Congressman Thompson’s letter to Sec. Hosemann can be viewed here. ###
09.05.2017	Thompson Statement on Trump Administration Ending DACA September 5, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on news the Trump Administration will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: "Just when you thought this President and his craven Administration couldn't stoop any lower, they now go after the most vulnerable. This is an atrocious and heartless decision to end a program that gave hope to nearly a million, brought them out of the shadows, and allowed them to contribute to the only country they know. It is truly sad that we have a severely unpopular President that all too often is unable to do the right thing and refuses to show his face to defend this mean-spirited decision. He should be focusing on real homeland security matters and getting dangerous criminals off our streets rather than throwing red meat to his base. This will do nothing to improve national security and will only cause more chaos and break up families.” “Congress must quickly come together, in bipartisan force, to stop this President and permanently protect those that came to this country under no fault of their own and are now a part of our society and economy. Democrats will stand firm together to protect DREAMers and Republicans must show they are willing to do the same. Denying them protection not only runs against our values and damages the economy, but will be permanent stain on our history."
08.31.2017	Thompson: Administration Must Focus on Harvey Recovery, Not Wasteful Wall August 31, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on the Customs and Border Protection announcement of awards for border wall prototypes: "Today's border 'wall' announcement from DHS to advance the President's pet project is incredibly tone deaf as flood waters from Hurricane Harvey still ravage Texas and Louisiana. The Department of Homeland Security's top priority should be its emergency response and recovery efforts as lives still need to be saved and preparations need to be made for a recovery that will take years. Funding relief efforts should be the focus - not obsessing over funding a wasteful, unnecessary wall that will do nothing but fulfill a campaign promise."
08.22.2017	Congressman Thompson on President Trump’s Afghanistan Deployment Announcement Washington – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) issued the following statement concerning President Trump’s recent announcement to deploy more U.S. troops to Afghanistan. “Last night, President Trump told Americans everywhere his intent to deploy thousands of more U.S. troops to Afghanistan,” Thompson said. “This is without a doubt, an act he certainly has not thought out. His careless effort to put American lives in danger will not aide in ending the war or bringing our troops home. Trump, yet again, is acting without a plan, causing the American people to suffer in the end.”
08.16.2017	August 15, 2017 (WASHINGTON) – Today, the twelve Democratic members of the House Committee on Homeland Security, led by Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), sent the below letter to Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and the Republican members of the Committee to urge the Committee hold hearings on domestic terrorism. In March and June of this year, Ranking Member Thompson wrote to Chairman McCaul requesting the Committee on Homeland Security address the ongoing threat of domestic terrorism through our oversight and legislative activities during the 115th Congress. Now, as our country has suffered yet another tragic and deadly domestic terrorist attack, we as Democratic Members of the Committee write to you, our Republican colleagues, to urge you to join with us to hold hearings to examine the troubling rise in domestic terrorism in our Nation. This weekend, the “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia attracted hundreds of self-identified white supremacists, neo-Nazis, and other members of alt-right groups. This rally was founded and fueled by hate. Despicable violence towards counter-protesters caused the death of a Charlottesville-area woman, Heather Heyer, and injuries to more than 20 others. This heinous, cowardly act was terrorism, plain and simple. Terrorism is not confined to a single ideology or inspiration. Unfortunately, it has become clear we cannot count on President Trump for action. Even before he was elected, many of us were concerned that his unwillingness to denounce and distance himself from white nationalists would be taken as tacit support by those ready to use violence to advance their racist ideology. As leaders of the legislative branch of government, we must stand up to all ideologically-motivated violence. Failure to act as innocent people continue to be terrorized, harmed, and killed by domestic terrorists puts American lives in peril. It is past time for this Committee on Homeland Security to act. As Democratic Members, we stand ready to work in bipartisan manner to help stop acts of domestic terror and uphold the ideals that truly make America great. We look forward to a hearing on this critical issue when we return in September. Link to Letter
08.15.2017	Washington – Today, U.S. Representative Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) calls for the removal of all confederate monuments and emblems in the United States Capitol and on the Mississippi state flag. “Confederate memorabilia have no place in this country and especially not in the United States Capitol. These images symbolize a time of racial discrimination and segregation that continues to haunt this country and many African-Americans who still to this day face racism and bigotry.” “In Mississippi, the confederate emblem continues to be flown on the state flag and was used as a rallying prop during the events that occurred in Charlottesville. The confederate flag was seen in almost every video image taken last Saturday. It is past-time for action to remove all confederate symbols in the U.S. Capitol and on the Mississippi state flag. I urge my colleagues both Republican, and Democrat, to work with me to ensure the permanent removal of all offensive and despicable confederate imagery.”
07.19.2017	Congressman Thompson Announces $55,750 Grant for Grenada Safe Room Washington – Today, Congressman Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) announced the approval of a $55,750 Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant, being paid to the City of Grenada for phase two of the emergency safe room construction. “As communities continue to improve their infrastructure, it is important that we include investments in safety and security,” Thompson said. “Having the appropriate structural preventions, in a region that is susceptible to storm damage, is essential to saving lives in the event of a disaster.” Trey Baker, city manager of Grenada, is pleased to know there will be something in place to protect the city’s residents from emergency situations. "The safe room is going to be a game changer for the City of Grenada,” Baker said. “Having a staging area for severe weather and other possible disasters in the Mondy Road area, coupled with our existing facilities makes us much better prepared to protect our citizens." Phase one of the safe room has already undergone completion, and the FEMA grant will be used to administer further modifications. The project is a 361 multi-purpose safe room with a total of 2,765 square feet. The safe room will be located at 260 Mondy Road, Grenada, Mississippi.
07.14.2017	VIDEO: Congressman Thompson Announces Congressional Task Force in Democratic Weekly Address Washington – Today, Congressman Bennie Thompson (MS-02) delivered the Weekly Democratic Address announcing the commencement of the Congressional Task Force on Election Security geared to investigate Russia’s possible involvement in the 2016 presidential election. “We must get the truth about Russia’s meddling and the full extent of the Trump campaign’s complicity,” Thompson said. “But, we must also take action to protect our elections and our election infrastructure next time.” Rep. Thompson, ranking member of the House Homeland Security Committee will co-chair the task force with Congressman Robert Brady (PA-01), ranking member of the Committee on House Administration; with members of the two respective committees also serving on the task force. The Congressional Task Force on Election Security will be a platform for members of the House Homeland Security Committee and the Committee on House Administration to discern knowledge and testimonies from experts with the expertise of cybersecurity and the electoral framework. The task force will also provide suggestions on how to prevent future threats on our election procedure. The video of Congressman Thompson’s full remarks can be seen here. Below is a full transcript of the address: “Hello, I’m Congressman Bennie Thompson. I represent Mississippi’s 2nd Congressional District, and I am the top Democrat on the Committee on Homeland Security. “Nearly everyone outside the White House accepts the Intelligence Community's conclusion that Russia carried out the hacking campaign in an attempt to influence the outcome of the 2016 Presidential Election. “And this week, in Donald Trump Jr.’s emails, we saw the first public evidence that the Trump Campaign eagerly intended to collude with Russia. “This shocking new evidence raises even graver questions about Russia’s success infiltrating the election systems in 21 states and stealing voting records containing personal information. “All of this has damaged Americans’ faith in our democracy and confidence in the security of our voting systems. “In fact, just this week, one poll found one in four respondents reported that they may not vote in the next election because of cybersecurity concerns. “This is not acceptable. Congress must act and act immediately. We must get the truth about Russia’s meddling and the full extent of the Trump Campaign complicity. But we must also take action to protect our elections and our election infrastructure next time. “That is why House Democrats launched the Congressional Task Force on Election Security, which I am proud to co-chair with Congressman Brady from Pennsylvania. “This task force’s central mission is to focus on how to bolster the cyber and physical security of our election system ahead of the 2018 election. “It will be a forum for Members of Congress to hear from experts in cybersecurity and election infrastructure and identify actions that should be taken to help ensure the integrity of our election systems and guard against future attacks. “While elections are the exclusive responsibilities of the states, the Federal government has a responsibility to step up and help, where needed, to support states as they work to prevent the Russians or other bad actors from disrupting and interfering with our elections. “Protecting the integrity of our election system should not be a partisan concern. We hope House Republicans will join us. “Unfortunately, we have a President who shows no interest in preventing last year’s election interference from happening again. The Department of Homeland Security is also wavering over whether our election infrastructure should be designated part of our country’s critical infrastructure. “Here in Congress, Republican leaders have displayed no appetite to tackle this critical homeland security issue – or even hold hearings. “If we continue to do nothing, we make it easy for Russia and other nefarious actors to meddle in future elections. “We must put politics aside for the good of the country and work together on this and so many other important issues to the American people. “I thank you for your attention and urge you to stay engaged. Our Democracy demands your involvement.”
06.29.2017	Congressman Thompson Supports USDOT EAS program for Greenville Airport Washington – Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced that Boutique Airlines has been re-selected to provide Essential Air Service (EAS) to the Mid-Delta Regional Airport in Greenville, Mississippi. Congressman Bennie G. Thompson is in full support of the USDOT’s continuous support in providing travel services to the Mississippi Delta. “I have met with federal officials on numerous occasions to express the need to maintain commercial air service through the Essential Air Service program for the people of Greenville and the Mississippi Delta,” Thompson said. “With the program supporting 12 weekly nonstop round trips to Nashville International Airport and 6 weekly nonstop flights to Dallas/Fort-Worth International Airport, Mississippi Delta residents will continue to have a convenient option to travel to destinations both near and far.” The EAS is a Department of Transportation program that subsidizes air carrier service to small and, in some cases, isolated communities. The EAS program provides subsidies to air carriers for providing service between selected small communities and hub airports. The program was originally established in 1978 as part of airline deregulation to ensure a minimum level of air service to smaller communities that might otherwise lose service because of economic factors.
06.14.2017	BOLTON, MISSISSIPPI – Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced The National Science Foundation has awarded $299,995 to Jackson State University. The Students Understanding Chemistry Concepts to Enhance STEM Skills (SUCCESS) project at Jackson State University will target at-risk and underrepresented students, with a focus on biology majors, and will enable them to successfully complete general and organic chemistry. The SUCCESS project will provide three-day Chemistry Readiness Workshops prior to the start of a course, and an additional two-hour SUCCESS Session during each week of the semester. Enabling at-risk and underrepresented students to succeed in their chosen major will support diversification of the STEM workforce. How these interventions promote student success will be documented, and the knowledge gained will complement successful approaches to undergraduate instruction across multiple STEM disciplines. The impact of Chemistry Readiness Workshops, the modified Xavier University Chemistry Drill Program, and Process Oriented Guided Inquiry Learning (POGIL) sessions on the success of students in general chemistry will be documented. Data from the intervention groups will be compared to historical data and evaluated to determine whether these strategies: (a) improve attendance in chemistry classes, (b) decrease drop/fail/withdraw rates, (c) improve students' conceptual understanding of chemistry, and (d) improve student retention. The results will be disseminated in biology and chemistry education conferences, and associated proceedings. Overall, this project will contribute to what is known about the promoting student success in STEM with at-risk and underrepresented students. This project will support broadening participation in STEM and the STEM workforce. For more information call 703-292-8070.
06.02.2017	CONGRESSMAN THOMPSON ANNOUNCES Brownfield Grants Awarded to the Mississippi Second Congressional District BOLTON, MISSISSIPPI – Today, United States Representative Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) announced The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded six Brownfields grants to entities in the Mississippi Second Congressional District. The amount awarded totals $1.3 million. The City of Vicksburg will receive $400,000 for two brownfields cleanup grants ($383,500 for hazardous substances and $16,500 for petroleum). The funds will be used to clean up the 1832 Kuhn North Facility and the 1959 Kuhn South Facility of the former Kuhn Memorial Hospital. Both cleanup sites were part of a 12.8-acre former hospital, which has been vacant since 1989. They are contaminated with metals, PCBs, and inorganic contaminants. Grant funds for both sites also will be used to conduct air monitoring and support community involvement activities. Canton – $300,000 ($200,000 for hazardous substances and $100,000 for petroleum) to include an update of the city’s brownfields inventory. Clarksdale – $300,000 ($166,200 for hazardous substances and $133,800 for petroleum) to include an update of the city’s brownfields inventory. Assessment activities will focus on the 18th Street Neighborhood and the Brickyard Area. Crystal Springs – $300,000 ($123,000 for hazardous substances and $177,000 for petroleum) to include area-wide planning and the prioritization of the city’s brownfield sites. Greenville – $300,000 ($200,000 for hazardous substances and $100,000 for petroleum) to include area-wide planning. One area of focus is the Lower Mississippi River Port Investment Initiative Area. A Brownfield is a property, of which the expansion, redevelopment, or reuse may be complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant. EPA's Brownfields Program enables states, communities, and other stakeholders in economic redevelopment to work together in a timely manner to prevent, assess, safely clean up, and sustainably reuse brownfields.
05.24.2017	Thompson Request Investigation Into Mississippi Legislator’s Call for Lynchings WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) released the following statement regarding Mississippi Legislator Karl Oliver’s call for the lynching of individuals who seek the removal of symbols of the Confederacy: “The recent Facebook post made by Karl Oliver was dangerous and as an elected official in Mississippi he should have been aware of the harm that could result from the post,” said Thompson. “His insistence that people who are opposed to symbols commemorating the treasonous acts of the Confederate State of America should be lynched is deeply disturbing. This type of hate speech is extremely perilous and could inspire others to commit criminal acts. We should be reminded that less than two years have passed since nine African-American church members were murdered by a radicalized individual who swore allegiance to the confederate flag and we are three years removed from a group of college students placing a noose and a confederate flag on a statue of civil rights icon James Meridith. These young people didn’t learn to hate on their own. They were inspired by people, like Mr. Oliver, who seek to indoctrinate others with vile speech.” “I am requesting that Department of Justice officials review the comments made by Mr. Oliver to determine if his recommendation of violence constitutes an immediate threat to individuals who are committed to removing tributes to the Confederacy from our public spaces.” ###
05.24.2017	Thompson Statement on Trump’s FY 2018 Budget WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s fiscal year 2018 budget request: “President Trump’s budget is perhaps the most damaging proposal for rural America that we have ever seen,” said Thompson. “The Trump budget seeks to eliminate the Low Income Energy Assistance Program, the Rural Business and Cooperative Service, the Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program and the Single Family Housing Direct Loans Program. President Trump also reneged on his promise to not cut Medicaid. It is clear that President Trump has turned his back on rural America.” “Unfortunately, many of us have become numb to Donald Trump’s foolish rhetoric and irrational tweets but this budget is a stark reminder of the dangers his Presidency. Perhaps the President should spend less time at his golf courses and more time meeting real Americans. I look forward to working with my colleagues to develop a budget that works for all Americans.” ###
01.03.2017	A photo of the 115th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.03.2017	The First Session of the 115th United States Congress commences on January 3rd, 2017. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
