04.24.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after being presented with the National Park Heritage Award for his bill the Kennesaw Mountain Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act, which was signed into law last month: “I want to thank the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) for this award, and for being the leading voice in safeguarding our national parks. Expanding Kennesaw Mountain Battlefield Park to include the Wallis House and Harriston Hill properties was vital to the preservation of our history, and will enhance the visitor’s experience at the park for decades to come. I share this award with my predecessor, Congressman Phil Gingrey, who began working on this bill a few years ago, and Senator Johnny Isakson, who carried this bill in the Senate.” History: Built by Josiah Wallis in 1853, and occupied by his family until the Civil War, the Wallis House was later used as a hospital by the Confederate Army. During the Atlanta Campaign, the Wallis House was used as the headquarters for Union General William T. Sherman during the Battle of Kolb’s Farm. The house was also used as the headquarters for Union General Oliver O. Howard during the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain – the last major battle leading to the fall of Atlanta. Adjacent to the Wallis House is the 5.5-acre Harriston Hill, which was used by General Howard as a signaling position and offers a sweeping view of the valley leading to the Confederate line atop Kennesaw Mountain.
04.10.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House passed the Save the Internet Act, H.R. 1644: “In the thirty-plus years I spent working in the information technology sector, which included running a small business that provided a wide array of internet and network-based services, I can safely say, this bill is bad for America and bad for business. "The internet has provided a platform of innovation unlike any other in history, empowering us with information and communications capabilities unimaginable just twenty years ago. These advancements have been because the internet has been relatively free of regulation by Washington bureaucrats. And while this bill may make those in Silicon Valley, New York City, and Washington, D.C. happy, the law leaves behind rural America. Nearly forty percent of rural communities still lack high-speed internet. “House Republicans understand, technology products have become smarter and faster, and the lower costs of internet-based technologies are predominantly due to very little interference from the federal government. Giving Washington bureaucrats too much control over the internet would certainly slow down development of products and services and inevitably raise costs, which does little to help rural Americans connect with others at an affordable rate."
04.02.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after signing the discharge petition in an effort to compel Speaker Pelosi to bring the Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, H.R. 962, to the House floor for a vote: “In 2013, Dr. Kermit Gosnell was convicted of murdering three infants who were born alive during attempted abortion procedures, and, six years later, we are still fighting to pass federal protections for infants born alive. A recent poll found 77 percent of voters support legislation to ensure that a baby who survives a failed abortion be given the same medical treatment as any other baby born prematurely. “While the nation was appalled by the actions of Dr. Gosnell, some state governors have been advocating for their state legislatures to pass legislation allowing for infants born alive after a failed abortion to be killed, or left to die on their own by denying medical care. It seems quite hypocritical to me that some in Congress are strongly advocating for a government run healthcare system that provides health care to everyone; but, many of these same legislators are opposed to providing basic lifesaving health care services to these innocent children. “Congresswoman Wagner’s bill would ensure these children receive the same degree of care that would be offered to any other child born prematurely, at the same gestational age. It is horrifying to me to think that our nation, built on the principle that we are all created equal and given the right to life, would accept the prospect of letting a child die when surrounded by qualified health care professionals that are sworn to saving lives.” To review the bill text of H.R. 962, please CLICK HERE.
03.21.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after being chosen to serve as a co-chair of the Congressional Fragrance Caucus for the 116th Congress: “Last summer, I had the pleasure of attending the ribbon cutting ceremony for Arylessence’s new state-of-the-art facility in Marietta, which is vital to the fragrance industry and has become an integral part of our Georgia economy. This billion-dollar industry supports thousands of American jobs and is a global economic force, yet its foundation is built upon small business ideals that foster innovation. Serving on this bi-partisan caucus will allow me to help strengthen the working relationship between the industry, its regulators, and Congress in a way that will benefit all Americans. I am grateful for the opportunity to work alongside this innovative industry.” Rep. Loudermilk will be serving with fellow Co-Chair Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ). “Fragrance products are invaluable to our lives — the candle you light at home in your kitchen, the perfumes and colognes you spray in the morning, the hand lotion you adore and even some of our favorite treats are the result of fragrance manufacturers, said Rep. Coleman. "Equally important are the jobs this industry creates, employing hundreds of thousands of workers at the smallest family-owned levels, at large companies, and everywhere in between. I’m proud to help lead this caucus as it recognizes the impact this industry has on American lives.” Background: The Congressional Fragrance Caucus is comprised of two co-chairs: a Republican and a Democrat, and several other members from the House of Representatives. The caucus will hold occasional briefings on topics of mutual interest, such as: fragrance companies and the U.S. economy, the connection between STEM education and the science-based needs of this sector, and the impact of global trade policy on the importation of the raw materials and ingredients the industry depends upon.
03.12.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after President Trump signed a package of natural resources bills, S. 47, which included his Kennesaw Mountain Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act, into law: “The signing of this bill marks the end of nearly a decade of legislative work, and begins an era of historic preservation at Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park. While I first introduced this legislation in 2015, my predecessor Congressman Phil Gingrey began working on this bill in 2010. The National Park Service can now acquire the historic Wallis House and Harriston Hill properties which, once restored, will greatly enhance the visitors’ experience at the park and open the door to a greater understanding of the events that took place there. I am proud to be a part of preserving a piece of our nation’s history, and I thank the countless individuals and organizations who have worked so hard to see this happen.” Summary of the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act: • Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to acquire, by donation, approximately eight acres of property to be added to Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park. Specifically, it would add the Wallis House and Harriston Hill to the park’s property. History: Built by Josiah Wallis in 1853, and occupied by his family until the Civil War, the Wallis House was later used as a hospital by the Confederate Army. During the Atlanta Campaign, the Wallis House was used as the headquarters for Union General William T. Sherman during the Battle of Kolb’s Farm. The house was also used as the headquarters for Union General Oliver O. Howard during the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain – the last major battle leading to the fall of Atlanta. Adjacent to the Wallis House is the 5.5-acre Harriston Hill, which was used by General Howard as a signaling position and offers a sweeping view of the valley leading to the Confederate line atop Kennesaw Mountain.
03.07.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after he was chosen to serve as a co-chair of the Congressional Fintech and Payments Caucus (CFTPC) for the 116th Congress: “Several years ago, I led an effort in the Georgia state legislature to study how Georgia could incentivize and grow its technology sector. As a result of this comprehensive study, along with several years of pro-growth policies emerging from the state capitol, Georgia has become a global economic force, especially in the financial technology [fintech] sector. "Today, because of Georgia’s flourishing fintech industry, more than two-thirds of all electronic transactions in the United States are processed by a Georgia-based payments company. Georgia fintech and payments companies employ nearly 40,000 professionals in our state, and more than 130,000 around the world. In just two years, the number of these companies in Georgia has grown nearly 40 percent, earning Georgia the nicknames, ‘Transaction Alley’ and the ‘Silicon Valley of the South.’ A major reason for this success is the business-friendly environment of our state, and it’s been noticed, as Georgia has repeatedly been named the number one state to do business. "Just as I was able to help grow Georgia’s technology sector as a state legislator, I will continue to promote pro-growth policies at the federal level through this bipartisan caucus. With over 30 years in the IT sector, I am grateful for the opportunity to continue to use my experience in such an exciting and innovative field.” Rep. Loudermilk will be serving alongside Rep. David Scott (D-GA) and two other co-chairs, yet to be selected. Background: The CFTPC is co-chaired by two Republican and two Democrat members of the House who work to ensure the positive growth of the fintech and payments processing industries. Georgia-based payments prostocessing companies are responsible for processing more than two-thirds of United States electronic transactions, which equates to more than 57 billion transactions every year. Georgia fintech and payments companies generate annual revenues of more than $72 billion and employ nearly 40,000 professionals in the state. The CFTPC provides members of Congress with an opportunity to better understand these technologies and support this important part of Georgia’s growing economy.
02.26.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House and Senate passed a package of natural resources bills, S. 47, including the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act: “I first introduced this legislation in 2015, and it’s now headed to the president’s desk to be signed. Kennesaw Mountain is one of the wonderful historic attractions in our district, and the addition of the Wallis House and Harriston Hill will bring even more valuable historic property to the park. Our nation has long recognized the importance of preserving historic sites, especially those battlefields where Americans fought and died for our freedoms. I am grateful to my House and Senate colleagues for supporting this bill, particularly Senator Johnny Isakson, who has sponsored this legislation in the Senate and fought tirelessly to get it passed. I am proud to be a part of these historic properties being added to Kennesaw Mountain Park so they can be visited and learned about for years to come.” Summary of the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act: • Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to acquire, by donation, approximately eight acres of property to be added to Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park. Specifically, it would add the Wallis House and Harriston Hill to the park’s property. • S. 47 passed the Senate on February 12 by a vote of 92-8 and passed the House on February 26 by a vote of 363-62. History: Built by Josiah Wallis in 1853, and occupied by his family until the Civil War, the Wallis House was later used as a hospital by the Confederate Army. During the Atlanta Campaign, the Wallis House was used as the headquarters for Union General William T. Sherman during the Battle of Kolb’s Farm. The house was also used as the headquarters for Union General Oliver O. Howard during the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain – the last major battle leading to the fall of Atlanta. Adjacent to the Wallis House is the 5.5-acre Harriston Hill, which was used by General Howard as a signaling position and offers a sweeping view of the valley leading to the Confederate line atop Kennesaw Mountain.
02.22.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after joining the Civility and Respect Caucus, which promotes constructive dialogue and debate in Congress: “Last weekend I read the book, ‘Back in the Game’ by my friend and colleague Rep. Steve Scalise, who was severely wounded when a crazed gunman, enraged by politics, opened fire at the Republican baseball practice in 2017. I was one of several on the field that day who dodged bullets as we ran for our lives. As I read Steve’s account of that day, I was taken back to relive the horror of the day over again. While nothing can be done to erase the evil that took place that day, we, in Congress, can hold ourselves to a higher standard of civility and respect, and hopefully set a better tone than the very divided current political climate in America. "The solution is a simple formula that has been around for over two thousand years, ‘love your neighbor as yourself…and treat others the way you want to be treated.' Over the past few years, it seems many have been so blinded by political partisanship, we have forgotten the ‘Golden Rule,’ and have allowed the rhetoric of an overzealous media, and ‘scorched earth’ policies of political campaigns, to guide our behavior toward others. I believe we can set a new path in political discourse; but it requires those of us engaged in the day-to-day policy-making to rise above the hype and set a new standard of civility. "In order to participate in this caucus, members of Congress are required to join with a member from the other party, and I am very pleased to join with my friend and colleague, Congressman David Scott of Georgia.”
02.14.2019	Washington, D.C. (February 14, 2019) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House passed the Conference Report for the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2019, H.J.Res. 31: “While I support President Trump’s efforts to provide adequate security on our southern border, I could not vote in support of this package of bills, due in part to not being given adequate time to review it. Members of Congress were given less than 24 hours to read more than one thousand pages of legislative text; and, though I believe the $1.3 billion is a good start toward the border barrier, I have not yet been able to assess all the aspects and effects of the bill. “Even some members of the conference committee, including a colleague from Georgia, were not included in final negotiations or drafting of the final bill, and were given only an hour to read it before being asked to approve or disapprove. “It is clear that the appropriations process is broken in D.C., because year after year, Congress struggles to pass the twelve appropriations bills by the September 30 funding deadline. Congress has also failed to secure our southern border, jeopardizing the safety and security of the American people. It’s time both sides come together and reform this broken process.” Background on H.J.Res. 31: • This legislation provides funding through September 30, 2019 for the seven annual appropriations bills that have not been signed into law. In addition to Homeland Security, the bill includes funding for Agriculture and FDA; Commerce, Justice, and Science; Financial Services and General Government; Interior and Environment; State and Foreign Operations; Transportation and HUD. • The bill would provide $1.375 billion for a section of border fencing.
02.12.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement after he re-introduced the Building Up Independent Lives and Dreams (BUILD) Act, H.R. 1060: “The BUILD Act cuts government red-tape by giving charitable organizations relief from burdensome regulations that inhibit their ability to carry out their mission. This legislation will allow non-profits that make zero percent interest mortgage loans, such as Habitat for Humanity, to be exempt from some complex mortgage disclosure requirements, and replace them with a more simplified system that still gives homebuyers the information they need. This bipartisan bill will help get those volunteers out of the office and back to rebuilding lives, communities, and dreams.” “The BUILD Act gives bona fide non-profits who make zero interest loans, like Habitat for Humanity, additional flexibility in deciding which disclosure forms they use. This common-sense piece of legislation will ensure non-profits can focus on working in their communities to build homes, rather than sitting in an office.” -Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA) -Original Cosponsor of H.R. 1060 “Every family deserves a roof over their heads. Because of misguided policies in the past, non-profits like Habitat for Humanity have been forced to use complicated mortgage loan forms that make it difficult to build homes for people who need them. Our bipartisan solution would allow for less complex forms, ensuring these organizations can continue to lend a hand to the less fortunate.” -Senator Deb Fischer (R-NE) -Sponsor of the BUILD Act in the Senate “Habitat for Humanity and others groups provide a vital service to families who would otherwise be unable to purchase a home. The BUILD Act will streamline the process so that Habitat for Humanity can achieve their important mission and will allow them to help even more people in Maryland and across the country reach the dream of home ownership.” -Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) -Original cosponsor of the BUILD Act in the Senate Summary of H.R. 1060: • Allows Habitat for Humanity affiliates, and other similar organizations, to choose whether to use the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) loan estimate and closing disclosure form or use the less complex GFE, HUD-1, and TILA forms. • During the 115th Congress, the BUILD Act passed the House Financial Services Committee and the full House unanimously. You can view the text of this legislation HERE.
02.06.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after he reintroduced his balanced budget amendment, H.J.Res. 40: “As our national debt continues to increase at an alarming rate, Americans grow increasingly weary of the federal government’s inability to operate within its means. Congress has proven over the past two decades that it no longer has the political will to reduce its excessive spending – and unless we want to bury our kids and grandkids underneath a mountain of debt, we must force fiscal responsibility through a Constitutional Amendment. A recent poll done by the Peter G. Peterson Foundation found that seventy-one percent of Americans agree that the national debt is a bipartisan issue, and that the debt should be a top priority for the president and Congress, which is why I have re-introduced my balanced budget amendment that aims to balance the federal budget within ten years. We must get our fiscal house in order, so we can continue to meet our financial obligations for generations to come.” Summary of H.J.Res. 40: • This Constitutional amendment would take effect in the tenth fiscal year after ratification, giving Congress and the economy an on-ramp to rein in spending. • The BBA requires a two-thirds vote in each chamber of Congress to increase federal spending to more than 18% of GDP of the previous calendar year. • The amendment requires a two-thirds vote in each chamber of Congress to levy a new tax, increase the rate of a tax, or raise the debt limit. • These tough but fair budget provisions will force Congress to get serious about restraining government spending, and stop taking more and more money out of the economy to pay for its excessive spending habits.
01.25.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after President Trump announced a plan to end the partial government shutdown: “In his statement today, the president showed incredible leadership and commitment to putting the safety and security of Americans first. House Republicans and the president are committed to securing our southern border, as well as negotiating with Democrats on an acceptable compromise. It is unfortunate that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle continue to ignore the severity of the situation and deny the need for a barrier at our border. It is on the shoulders of us, in Congress, to reach an agreement that funds border security to the level that our experts have recommended, which includes a physical barrier."
01.19.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after President Trump announced a plan to reopen the government and fund border security: “We cannot continue to sacrifice the safety and security of the American people to protect the political ‘status quo’ in Washington, D.C. The president has outlined a reasonable and workable plan that has had bipartisan support in the past. It is time for Speaker Pelosi to put aside political rhetoric, return to Washington, and end the policy of just saying ‘no’ to negotiation.” Summary of President Trump’s plan: • $5.7 billion to fund a steel barrier system, including embedded investments in technology and roads, on our southern border in the priority areas cited by Border Patrol. • Provisional status will be granted for three years for current DACA recipients, covering 700,000 illegal immigrants brought here by their parents at a young age. • Provisional status will be granted to certain current TPS recipients for three years, providing 300,000 immigrants whose protected status is facing expiration more certainty as Congress works on a larger immigration deal. • $805 million for technology, canines, and personnel to help stop the flow of illegal drugs, weapons and other contraband. • $800 million dollars in humanitarian assistance, medical support, and new temporary housing. • $782 million to hire an additional 2,750 border agents, law enforcement officers, and staff. • $563 million to support our immigration court system, including hiring 75 new immigration judge teams to reduce the immigration court backlog of 800,000 cases.
01.15.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the first few days of the 116th Congress: “Last week, when Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer visited the White House to supposedly negotiate reopening the closed portions of the federal government, their response to any offer of negotiation was a resounding 'No.' While their response on securing our southern border made headlines, there are several other key issues that the Democrats have said ‘No’ to in just the first few days of the 116th Congress. These issues, which Republicans tried to bring to the floor for a vote, were some that Democrats claimed were important policies for them. However, Democrats have repeatedly voted against them. Are they against border security, or just against working with this President to fix it? Are they opposed to these policies, or are they just against working with Republicans to fix them?”
01.11.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after he reintroduced a bill to preserve historic property at Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park, H.R. 187: “I first introduced this legislation in 2015, and I’m introducing it for the third consecutive Congress. Kennesaw Mountain is one of the wonderful historic attractions in our district, and the addition of the Wallis House and Harriston Hill will bring even more valuable historic property to the park. Our nation has long recognized the importance of preserving historic sites, especially those battlefields where Americans fought and died for our freedoms. I urge my House and Senate colleagues to bring this bipartisan legislation to the floor for a vote, so everyone can visit and learn about these key historic sites for years to come.” Congressmen Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Jody Hice (R-GA), and Hank Johnson (D-GA) are original co-sponsors of this bill, and companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA): “The preservation of Georgia’s historical landmarks provides unique educational opportunities for the public so they can experience the history by visiting the same fields, hilltops and valleys as the people did before us," said Rep.Sanford Bishop (D-GA). "The inclusion of two historically significant properties at Kennesaw Mountain will add to the historic value of the park, Georgia and the country. I thank Congressman Loudermilk for introducing this important piece of legislation." “Expanding the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park to include the Wallis House and Harriston Hill will add to the historical significance of the park by giving visitors an opportunity to experience key strategies and positions of troops during the Civil War,” said Senator Isakson (R-GA). “I hope both the House and Senate will act quickly to allow this expansion.” “The Wallis House and Harriston Hill have rich historical significance to Georgia and the entire country,” said Senator Perdue (R-GA). “Expanding the park boundaries to include these properties will give park visitors a full picture of the battleground’s history. I’m proud to join my fellow Georgians in working to preserve our state’s history.” Summary of H.R. 187: Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to acquire approximately eight acres of property adjacent to Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park. Specifically, it would add the historic Wallis House and Harriston Hill to the park’s property. History Built by Josiah Wallis in 1853, and occupied by his family until the Civil War, the Wallis House was used as a hospital by the Confederate Army. Additionally, during the Atlanta Campaign, the Wallis House was used as the headquarters for Union General William T. Sherman during the Battle of Kolb’s Farm. The house was also used as the headquarters for Union General Oliver O. Howard during the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain – the last major battle leading to the fall of Atlanta. Adjacent to the Wallis House is the 5.5-acre Harriston Hill, used by General Howard as a signaling position, and offering a sweeping view of the valley leading to the Confederate line atop Kennesaw Mountain.
01.03.2019	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after being sworn in for the 116th Congress: “Today, as I was being sworn in for the 116th Congress, I placed my hand on a Bible [pictured above] like those issued to soldiers during World War II. This Bible, similar to the one issued to my father, a WWII veteran, reminds me of the importance of God in my life and in the founding of this great nation. While our country is currently entrenched in a debate over much needed border security, and a partial government shutdown being the result of this political impasse, we cannot forget the reason we are all here: to ensure we have a nation that is free, safe and full of opportunity. Eventually, this debate will come to an end and new challenges will emerge, but I will continue to stand firmly on my faith and the U.S. Constitution as I represent Georgia’s 11th Congressional District.”
12.21.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House passed the Retirement, Savings, and Other Tax Relief Act, H.R. 88: “This vote reaffirms House Republicans’ continued commitment to alleviate the tax burdens placed on the American taxpayer. This package of bills will provide some retirement savings tax incentives, as well as tax relief for victims of disasters, specifically hurricanes Florence and Michael, in addition to the California wildfires. Among other provisions, Republicans voted to permanently repeal the Obamacare tanning tax and delay the Obamacare medical device tax, the health insurance tax, and the Cadillac tax. This legislation also makes several technical corrections to the 2017 tax reform law, which businesses in Georgia’s 11th Congressional District desperately need, and requires the IRS to develop a customer service strategy - something I have long advocated for. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to quickly consider its importance, and how it will improve the lives of America’s hardworking taxpayers.” Summary of H.R. 88: • Provides tax relief for Americans in disaster-stricken areas by relaxing restrictions on withdrawal of funds from retirements accounts, and temporarily suspending limits on charitable giving • Makes it easier for Americans to save for retirement by removing burdensome regulations on pooled retirement plans • Delays several harmful Obamacare taxes, including delaying the medical device tax for five years, delaying the health insurance tax, delaying the Cadillac tax, and permanently repealing the tanning tax • Corrects several drafting errors in the 2017 tax reform law, so taxpayers can take full advantage of the tax savings in the law • Places the IRS Independent Office of Appeals into permanent law, so taxpayers will have the ability to have their tax issues fully addressed • Requires the IRS to establish a strategy for improving service to taxpayers
12.20.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after he met with President Trump at the White House about funding for the federal government, disaster relief for Georgia, and security at our southern border: “Today, I met with President Trump and House leadership to discuss the urgency of securing our southern border. The President agrees it is of paramount importance to end the flow of drugs, illegal weapons, human trafficking, and terrorists entering our country. I believe Congress should not leave Washington, D.C. without completing our job, and many of my Republican colleagues in the House agree we should stay in town and continue to fight for the American people. “In addition to discussing problems at our southern border, I also advocated for disaster relief for Georgia and the other states affected by Hurricane Michael and other natural disasters this year.”
12.05.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement in honor of today’s National Day of Mourning in remembrance of former President George H.W. Bush: “Today marks a National Day of Mourning in remembrance of former President George H.W. Bush, but in reality we celebrate a man’s life spent dedicated to public service. From an early age, his life story almost reads like a great fiction novel. From the time he enlisted in the Navy as a young man, after the attack on Pearl Harbor during WWII, to his days spent dedicated to humanitarian efforts across the world after his political career, President Bush’s life is to be honored, studied, and celebrated. “And on days like today, I often find myself praying and looking to the future in the hopes I catch a glimpse of what God has in store for us. And while our nation seems to be stuck in a perpetual state of turmoil, those visions can often be bleak and troublesome; but then I remember a life like former President Bush’s, and I’m reinvigorated with hope and optimism. I cannot help but believe there are young, selfless, patriotic individuals awaiting their turn to make an indelible mark on the world just like former President George H.W. Bush. May he rest in peace.”
11.01.2018	Rep. Loudermilk's bill, the Financial Reporting Threshold Modernization Act, raises the currency transaction report (CTR) threshold from $10,000 to $30,000, which, in some instances, will reduce regulatory paperwork on small community banks and credit unions by almost 80 percent. Here's what some business associations are saying about the bill: National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions: "Credit unions are committed to combating criminal activity throughout our financial system. Representative Loudermilk’s bill will help ensure credit unions are able to focus more closely on catching illegal activity rather than being bogged down by stacks of paperwork and compliance exams. We thank Representative Loudermilk for his efforts to modernize the current BSA/AML regime." Brad Thaler Vice President of Legislative Affairs NAFCU The Independent Community Bankers of America: "ICBA and the nation’s community banks support quality over quantity in their efforts to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. Rep. Barry Loudermilk’s (R-Ga.) Financial Reporting Threshold Modernization Act (H.R. 6850) would update Bank Secrecy Act reporting thresholds that are significantly outdated and capture far more transactions than originally intended. ICBA strongly supports this common-sense legislation to improve the value of information reported to law enforcement while reducing paperwork burdens on community banks." Rebeca Romero Rainey President and CEO ICBA Credit Union National Association: "We thank Rep. Loudermilk for introducing the Financial Reporting Threshold Modernization Act. Nearly half of all credit unions have fewer than five full-time employees with at least two employees devoted to compliance functions related to the Bank Secrecy Act, impeding credit unions’ ability to engage in ordinary lending and consumer finance. Given these challenges to the industry, it’s clear that Congress must change the current system to best meet the needs of American consumers and credit union members." Jim Nussle President and CEO CUNA Electronic Transactions Association: "We applaud Rep. Loudermilk’s bill to modernize our nation’s laws for fighting money laundering. The market has changed and we must ensure the tools for fighting criminal activities stay current. H.R. 6850 represents a large step forward in helping deter financial crimes." Scott Talbott Senior Vice President Government Relations ETA Summary of H.R. 6850: The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 has not been updated in almost five decades and has resulted in burdensome paperwork on community banks, credit unions, payment processors, and other vital companies. Rep. Loudermilk’s bill to fix this problem does the following: • Raises currency transaction report threshold from $10,000 to $30,000 • Raises suspicious activity report threshold from $5,000 to $10,000 for financial institutions • Raises suspicious activity reporting threshold from $2,000 to $3,000 for money services businesses (MSBs)
10.26.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after federal authorities arrested a man in connection to a string of suspicious packages sent to nationally prominent individuals: "I want to express my heartfelt appreciation to national, state and local law enforcement for their quick and efficient work in identifying and apprehending a suspect in the recent terroristic acts of mailing suspected bombs to nationally prominent individuals. “For a while now, I have been advocating for a return to civility in politics; and that requires all of us, elected officials, activists and all citizens to stand up for what we believe in while respecting those who may disagree. I have experienced firsthand an act of political terrorism, when a deranged man opened fire on me and my colleagues at a Republican baseball practice last year. That single act of hatred has left physical and emotional scars on those that were there, which are likely to last a lifetime. Before and since, my family and I have had threats of violence against us, and while this has not deterred me from working for the people of Georgia, it has had an effect on my family, my staff, and my friends. “Everyone in this nation has a right to take their political grievances to their elected officials, and if they are not satisfied that these issues are adequately addressed, they should respond at the ballot box, not through threats or violence. Now is the time for all Americans, of all political affiliations, to stand together on the basic principle of loving your neighbor and treating them the way you want to be treated.”
10.24.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after he co-sponsored the Build the Wall, Enforce the Law Act of 2018: “Republicans in the House remain focused on our national security, and securing our borders is the most important step in keeping America safe. We must continue to work to fix our borders and our broken immigration system, because every single day drug runners, sex traffickers, criminal gangs, and gun runners exploit our borders for their criminal activities. This bill, introduced by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), would go a long way in making America more secure.” Build the Wall, Enforce the Law Act of 2018 Summary: • Fully funds President Trump’s border wall request at $23.4 billion for Fiscal Year 2019 and advanced appropriations for FY2020-2025. • Includes three additional House-passed immigration enforcement bills that would combat transnational gangs like MS-13, aid in the fight against human trafficking, deter the spread of deadly drugs like fentanyl, and crack down on sanctuary cities.
10.15.2018	| Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after receiving the Taxpayers’ Friend Award from the National Taxpayers Union (NTU): “Hardworking Americans deserve the freedom to determine what they do with their money, not elected bureaucrats. And, this Congress, Republicans have been focused on reducing the tax burden by passing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and Tax Reform 2.0, so Americans can invest in their families, their businesses, and their communities. I want to thank the NTU for this award, and for holding all members of Congress accountable.” Rep. Loudermilk (left), and NTU Executive Vice President Brandon Arnold (right)
10.06.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the Senate voted to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court: “My colleagues in the Senate did the right thing, confirming Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court. Judge Kavanaugh has led an exemplary life; as a family man and a career judge. "His road to confirmation was paved by the most comprehensive review of a Supreme Court nominee in history; seven FBI background checks, 36 hours of testimony before the Senate, and more than 500,000 pages of Executive Branch documents - more than the last four nominees combined. I look forward to the day when common decency and civility return to our government, and the American ideal of an individual being considered innocent until proven guilty.”
10.03.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after he was awarded NFIB’s (National Federation of Independent Business) Guardian of Small Business Award: “The American economy is fueled by our small businesses, which is why House Republicans have been committed to passing reforms that benefit Main Street, not Wall Street. I was a small business owner for over twenty years, and remember the times when I worried about rising taxes, bureaucratic red tape, and increased healthcare costs; and viewed those in Washington, D.C. as the problem, not the solution. That’s why I support commonsense legislation that aims to get elected bureaucrats out of the way so our small businesses can thrive.” NFIB President and CEO Juanita D. Duggan (left), Rep. Barry Loudermilk (right)
09.28.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House passed Tax Reform 2.0: “Republicans unleashed the economy last year when we slashed taxes for hardworking Americans. Main street businesses are booming, their optimism has never been higher, and unemployment is at historic lows. The House has doubled down on this success by passing another package of tax reforms. The new package of three bills will make permanent the tax cuts from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, allow families to keep more of their hard-earned money to use to their own benefit, and spur new business innovation. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to pass this reform as soon as possible, so America can continue to be the most innovative country in the world.” Summary of Tax Reform 2.0 Family Savings Act – H.R. 6757 • Expands the eligible expenses able to be covered by 529 education savings accounts, including apprenticeships, homeschooling, and student loans. • Allows each parent of a newborn or adopted child to withdraw up to $7,500 each from their retirement account with no penalty. • Creates a new universal savings account (USA) to give individuals and families more options to save for retirement. American Innovation Act – H.R. 6756 • Consolidates two tax deductions available to startup businesses and increases their value to $20,000. Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act – H.R. 6760 • Makes the personal tax reductions in the 2017 tax reform law- including lower rates, lower brackets, increased standard deduction, expanded child tax credit, increased estate tax threshold, increased alternative minimum tax threshold, and pass-through deduction- permanent. These reductions are currently set to expire after 2025.
09.27.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after he introduced the Financial Reporting Threshold Modernization Act, H.R. 6850: “The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 has not been updated in almost five decades and has resulted in massive paperwork burdens on community banks, credit unions, payment processors, and other companies. The law requires these companies to send a report to law enforcement any time there is a single-day cash transaction of $10,000 or more, in an effort to track and combat money laundering and terrorism financing. But the law hasn’t been adjusted for inflation since it was first enacted, and this threshold would be more than $60,000 in today’s dollars. The equivalent buying power of $10,000 today would be $1,500 in 1970, and that has resulted in more than 15 million reports currently going into a black hole at the Treasury Department every year. This captures many routine, legitimate transactions, which provides little to no value to law enforcement. “My bill simply raises the threshold from $10,000 to $30,000 which, in some instances, will reduce regulatory paperwork on small community banks and credit unions by almost 80 percent. Raising this threshold will also result in increased privacy for banking customers, while not jeopardizing law enforcement’s ability detect and investigate possible crimes.” Summary of H.R. 6850: • Currency transaction report threshold raised from $10,000 to $30,000 • Suspicious activity report threshold raised from $5,000 to $10,000 for financial institutions • Suspicious activity reporting threshold raised from $2,000 to $3,000 for money services businesses (MSBs)
09.14.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House passed a package of three appropriations bills for FY 2019: “The package of three appropriations bills passed this week marks the first time Congress has completed more than one spending bill on time in over a decade. This package, which President Trump is expected to sign into law, includes the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, Legislative Branch, and Energy and Water Appropriations bills. For too long, Congress has kicked the can down the road and let politics and petty differences interfere with its own appropriations process. And, though we still have work to do, my colleagues and I look forward to passing the remaining appropriations bills on-time, this month. “These three FY 2019 appropriations bills will help rebuild our deteriorating military infrastructure, strengthening our national security; improve care for our veterans by increasing health care services, like modernizing the VA’s electronic health record system; revitalize our ports and waterways, adding funds to limit flood and storm damage; provide additional funds targeting growing our energy independence, which will further stimulate our economy; continue members of Congress’ pay freeze, and allow Congress the means to maintain fiscal responsibility.” FY 2019 Appropriations Bills: Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriation Bill • $86.5 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs • Speeds up claim processing for more than 450 thousand veterans • Modernizes the VA’s electronic healthy record system • $10.3 billion for military construction projects • Prioritizes $8 billion for construction on U.S. military bases Energy and Water Appropriations Bill: • Supports a strong nuclear national strategy with a total of $15.23 billion for the Department of Energy’s nuclear weapons security programs • Secures our nation’s energy infrastructure against cyber threats and other attacks • Encourages U.S. economic competitiveness and advances our nation’s goal of energy independence Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill: • Enhances safety and security of the Capitol Complex • Provides funds for the operation of the U.S. House of Representatives • Maintains the 10% spending cut for Congress • Continues the member pay freeze
09.12.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) appeared on “Varney & Co.” on Fox Business Network to discuss the Atlanta Mayor’s decision to end the city’s contract with ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement); the city will no longer accept or house illegals arrested by ICE. <br> <br> <br> <span class="_reSelectionEdge" startoffset="0" endoffset="0"></span><br> <br> <br> What is behind Atlanta’s Mayor, Keisha Lance Bottoms, decision to end the city’s contract with ICE? “Nancy Pelosi is a trendsetter for Democrats across the nation; and when the Democrats decided we need to remove ICE as an official entity of the government, all the far left liberals throughout the nation – including a red state like Georgia – are falling in line. Because to them it’s more important to make a political statement than it is to ensure the safety and security of Americans.” What kind of support does Mayor Bottoms have in the city of Atlanta? “We are going to see the kind of support she has when the truth comes out because there is a lot of hypocrisy built in this executive order… The mayor said she did this in response to the separation of families at the border, which we all know was going on well before this president. Well, that was a different organization involved in separating families, not ICE. What she is doing, is ordering the detainees in the Atlanta city jail to be moved to, her words, ‘substandard facilities,’ that are, in some cases, hours away. So, they are separating the detainees from where their families and attorneys are.” What does this decision mean for the city of Atlanta and ICE? “This is counterproductive... Look, this is all about making a political statement. It does jeopardize the safety and security of people in Atlanta, and it does jeopardize the safety and security of ICE agents here who will be put in more dangerous situations. And by them [city of Atlanta] saying they will not cooperate with ICE, that is unbelievable because they are on the forefront of stopping an opioid crisis… Last year, ICE intercepted almost 3,000 lbs. of fentanyl, which is a key element in opioids, and is enough to kill the entire population of Atlanta.” What should Atlanta be focused on instead of making political statements? “The city of Atlanta has numerous problems. There was a cybersecurity attack on the city of Atlanta several months ago, where data was lost and is still being held hostage, to which the city has spent $3 million trying to recover… State and federal investigators are investigating massive corruption within the city of Atlanta, and just a couple of months ago, HUD stripped away from Atlanta a low income mortgage program because Atlanta is not responding to their requests for documentation… they [the left] are more interested in stopping ICE than ISIS.”
09.05.2018	Rep. Loudermilk’s (R-GA) Modern Employment Reform, Improvement, and Transformation (MERIT) Act is the cure for the waste and abuse currently plaguing our federal agencies. The MERIT Act is a huge step to creating a more efficient and effective government that works for the people, streamlining the process and lessening the time it takes to dismiss poor performing or negligent employees. It shouldn’t take over a year to remove a bad employee, as under the current system. Here’s what some are saying about the MERIT Act: Americans for Prosperity: “The MERIT Act is common sense legislation that will help our government get the most out of our federal workforce. These measures will protect taxpayers and are long overdue. On behalf of 3.2 million activists across all 50 states, we support advancement of The Merit Act and look forward to educating the American people on the constructive reforms included in his bill.” Brent Gardner Chief Government Affairs Officer Americans for Prosperity R Street Institute: "The civil service is the bedrock of our executive branch. It is they who carry out the daily work of making government work for the people. Good government requires high quality employees. Unfortunately, today's civil service protocols make it very costly and very difficult for an agency to fire an underperforming federal employee. No private company could succeed with such restrictions. The MERIT Act is a good start for Congress' re-evaluation and modernization of the civil service. It balances workers' protections against arbitrary removal and agency managers' critical need to have the best possible workforce serving the public." Kevin R. Kosar Vice-President of Policy R Street Institute Americans for Tax Reform: "Americans for Tax Reform strongly supports Congressman Loudermilk’s MERIT Act and urges members of the House of Representatives to vote for the bill. The MERIT Act ensures that Americans have a strong federal workforce and that taxpayer money is spent effectively.” Grover Norquist President Americans for Tax Reform Americans for Limited Government: "The MERIT Act takes a significant step at reigning in the out of control bureaucracy that has turned Washington D.C. into a swamp. As last years VA reform made clear, allowing managers to dismiss poor performing employees while upholding whistle blower protections allows our civil service to work effectively and efficiently. We cannot drain the swamp if we cannot fire bad actors in the swamp, the MERIT Act takes a critical first step in allowing for just that.” Rick Manning President Americans for Limited Government Less Government: “One very obvious reason we have so much very bad government – is because we have so many very bad government employees. And very bad government – has made it very difficult for us to get rid of very bad government employees. Rep. Loudermilk’s MERIT Act – makes it easier to dispatch very bad government employees. Thereby rendering government - a little less bad.” Seton Motley President Less Government Citizens Against Government Waste: “The MERIT Act would represent a crucial step toward reforming and streamlining the federal bureaucracy. Holding all federal employees to the highest standards is the simplest way to demonstrate respect for the citizens who pay their salaries.” Tom Schatz President Citizens Against Government Waste National Taxpayers Union: “With time running out on the 115th Congress, Members of Congress should prioritize getting commonsense reforms, like the MERIT Act, across the finish-line. For too long, federal employees who waste taxpayer funds or violate workplace conduct have avoided the types of consequences similar behaviors would garner in the private-sector. While this issue is left unresolved, lack of accountability will continue to penalize both taxpayers and the majority of federal employees, who perform their jobs diligently and well. In addition, NTU is pleased that the MERIT Act upholds protections for whistleblowers, who have consistently been the first line of defense against wasteful, sometimes criminal actions. Members shouldn't leave this important opportunity to end civil service sinecures on the table.” Nan Swift Federal Affairs Manager National Taxpayers Union Summary of H.R. 559: • Permits agencies to remove a senior executive from the civil service for performance reasons, rather than merely demoting the individual to a non-Senior Executive Service (SES) position • Affects the retirement benefits of employees who are removed based on a felony conviction based on actions taken in furtherance of official duties • Repeals the special process for taking action against poor performers, which is unnecessarily time-consuming, and streamlines the process for removal or suspension of poor performers and bad actors • Addresses concerns about arbitrators overruling Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) precedent by prohibiting grievances based on adverse personnel actions. Employees will be able to appeal these actions exclusively to the MSPB • Prohibits appeals to MSPB based on short-term furloughs, consistent with current short-term suspension rules • Prohibits appeals of emergency furloughs, defined as furloughs resulting from a lapse of appropriations • Authorizes the Office of Personnel Management to reduce the procedural burden on agencies when taking furlough actions, particularly those resulting from budgetary constraints • Authorizes agencies to order repayment of bonuses and awards when performance or conduct issues are discovered and it is determined the bonus or award would not have been paid had these issues been known at the time • Ensures adequate time to evaluate a new employee to determine whether he or she should be retained by extending the probationary period for competitive service appointments and SES members from one year to two years
08.22.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after President Trump ordered ICE to deport a Nazi labor camp guard to Germany. Announcement of the deportation happened to coincide with the congressman’s visit to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Concentration Camp. Rep. Loudermilk visited the site with Holocaust survivor, Edward Mosberg, who now resides in New Jersey. “This week I had the opportunity to see the horrors of the German Nazi death camp of Auschwitz-Birkenau through the eyes of Mr. Mosberg, a Polish born United States citizen and Holocaust survivor. Being here and seeing evidence of this evil makes me more grateful to the president and ICE for finally carrying out the decision to deport this war criminal and move forward in the process of justice.” The decision by the Trump administration to deport the last known Nazi living in the U.S. comes after decades of unsuccessful legal fights. Previous administrations tried, but failed to deport Jakiw Palij, who has been living in the U.S. since 1949. He claimed he worked on a farm and in a factory during World War II. And even though Palij is 95-years-old now, those Holocaust survivors still alive today, like Edward Mosberg, find solace in the fact justice is being served. "This is a good thing that this man was brought to justice," said Edward Mosberg. "As a Holocaust survivor who lost almost my entire family in the Holocaust, we can never forgive the German Nazis and those who collaborated with them, for only the dead can forgive them." Edward Mosberg was just a boy when he was sent to the Krakow ghetto, and during the war, he was sent to several concentration camps in Poland and Germany. He came from a family of 16; all of whom were murdered by the Nazis. Miraculously, Mosberg survived the war after his Nazi captors – realizing the war was coming to an end – ordered he and his fellow captors into caves where they soon escaped. “We were brought to tears as we listened to Mr. Mosberg tell of the murder of his mother at Birkenau,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “We were standing in the main guard tower looking down on the platform where hundreds of thousands were unloaded from cattle cars, marched into gas chambers and executed, just for being Jews. A moment I will never forget is when - in a broken voice and with tear-filled eyes - Mr. Mosberg told us ‘When I walk through Auschwitz-Birkenau, I still hear the cries of my family and the others that were murdered here.’ " “This place is evidence of how hatred and prejudice evolved into acts of indescribable evil. As Americans, we must rededicate ourselves to the fact that ‘all men are created equal,’ and while we can disagree, we should do so with respect and civility,” added Rep. Loudermilk. Also visiting Auschwitz-Birkenau was the founder of From the Depths foundation, Jonny Daniels. From The Depths focuses on preserving the memories of those who were brutally murdered during the dark days of the Holocaust, so their messages and stories are not forgotten. Rep. Loudermilk was part of a congressional delegation visiting Poland to gain a greater understanding of the importance of Holocaust education, memory and memorial, as well as, strengthen U.S. and Polish relations. Edward Mosberg (left) and Rep. Loudermilk (right) tour Auschwitz-Birkenau
07.26.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House passed the Protect Medical Innovation Act, which repeals the medical device tax imposed by Obamacare: “When it comes to healthcare, we still have a lot of work to do, but repealing the medical device tax is another step in the right direction. This hidden tax has had devastating impacts across country. It added additional costs to consumers, hurt small businesses, suppressed research and development, and resulted in job losses. “Americans should have affordable, quality access to healthcare, which is still a priority of this Congress. Fighting for commonsense healthcare reforms, such as repealing the medical device tax, is one that every Republican and Democrat should support.”
07.19.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Jobs and Investor Confidence Act of 2018 by a vote of 406-4: “Today was a victory for Main Street America. The Jobs and Investor Confidence Act, a package of 32 bipartisan bills that passed the House this week, will eliminate years of onerous government regulations which have hindered innovation and economic growth. These reforms will protect investors and help small businesses and startup companies cut costs and attract investments they need to grow. “I appreciate the members of the Financial Services Committee for their hard work on these important reforms, and for supporting my bills, the Exchange Regulatory Improvement Act and the BUILD Act, which were a part of this package.” Summary of the Jobs and Investor Confidence Act of 2018: • This is a package of 32 bills which have passed the Financial Services Committee and the House with bipartisan support. • These bills are aimed at relaxing securities regulations for small companies and startups to facilitate capital formation, job growth, and innovation. • This package includes two bills authored by Congressman Loudermilk. They are listed below: H.R. 3555, the Exchange Regulatory Improvement Act, would require the Securities and Exchange Commission to clarify which parts of exchange businesses are under its regulatory jurisdiction. This bill passed the Financial Services Committee unanimously. H.R. 5953, the BUILD Act, would provide relief from the 1,888 page Dodd-Frank TRID rule to charitable organizations making residential mortgage loans at zero percent interest. This bill passed the Financial Services Committee and the House unanimously.
07.17.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after his bill, the Modern Employment Reform, Improvement, and Transformation (MERIT) Act, passed the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: “Recent surveys show that over three-fourths of Americans are either angry or frustrated with the federal government, and an overwhelming majority of our citizens do not believe that the government works for their benefit. This is why, even before being elected to Congress, I have advocated for a more effective and efficient federal government that will restore America’s confidence in our government. “Working for the United States federal government is an honor and a privilege, and most federal employees value the opportunity and work hard to serve the American people. However, some federal employees have learned they can use the system to protect their jobs regardless of their poor performance or bad behavior. These employees cast a negative light on the government and are a burden to those who work hard every day to help the American people. “The MERIT Act is a huge step to creating a more efficient and effective government that works for the people, streamlining the process and lessening the time it takes to dismiss poor performing or negligent employees. It shouldn’t take over a year to remove a bad employee, as under the current system. “I am encouraged that the Oversight and Government Reform Committee has passed MERIT, and now we can work on getting it passed in the House of Representatives.” Summary of H.R. 559: • Permits agencies to remove a senior executive from the civil service for performance reasons, rather than merely demoting the individual to a non-Senior Executive Service (SES) position • Affects the retirement benefits of employees who are removed based on a felony conviction based on actions taken in furtherance of official duties • Repeals the special process for taking action against poor performers, which is unnecessarily time-consuming, and streamlines the process for removal or suspension of poor performers and bad actors • Addresses concerns about arbitrators overruling Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) precedent by prohibiting grievances based on adverse personnel actions. Employees will be able to appeal these actions exclusively to the MSPB • Prohibits appeals to MSPB based on short-term furloughs, consistent with current short-term suspension rules • Prohibits appeals of emergency furloughs, defined as furloughs resulting from a lapse of appropriations • Authorizes the Office of Personnel Management to reduce the procedural burden on agencies when taking furlough actions, particularly those resulting from budgetary constraints • Authorizes agencies to order repayment of bonuses and awards when performance or conduct issues are discovered and it is determined the bonus or award would not have been paid had these issues been known at the time • Ensures adequate time to evaluate a new employee to determine whether he or she should be retained by extending the probationary period for competitive service appointments and SES members from one year to two years
07.13.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after his bill, the Exchange Regulatory Improvement Act (H.R. 3555), passed the Financial Services Committee with a unanimous vote: “Over time, stock exchanges have expanded their business models to include additional products and services not related to trading on the exchange. While the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) can and should oversee the core trading functions of the exchange, the SEC has attempted to regulate these new unrelated products and services, arbitrarily defining them as a ‘facility’ of the exchange. The definition of a ‘facility’ has not been updated since it was written in 1934, and it has failed to take into account these new products and services, such as regulatory compliance software, e-mortgage registries, and data analytics. The result of this diversification by the exchanges has unfortunately resulted in SEC overregulation, and has caused confusion amongst businesses and lawmakers on how the SEC interprets what is a ‘facility.’ “My bill simply requires the SEC to provide transparency in this area by explaining its process for determining what is a ‘facility’ of an exchange. Having clarification on this issue would go a long way to foster innovation in the capital markets by ensuring that exchanges can establish diverse products and services, which are not related to transactions on the exchange, without the regulatory hurdles and costs associated with SEC oversight. I look forward to this bipartisan bill moving quickly to the House Floor for debate and passage." Summary of H.R. 3555: • Requires the SEC to conduct a rulemaking to explain the facts and circumstances that it considers when determining whether an exchange product or service is a "facility" of the exchange. • Requires the SEC to apply those facts and circumstances when considering whether to regulate any new products or services under the Exchange Act of 1934.
07.11.2018	“These are the types of things that matter to everyday Americans. So it’s important that you get out of the bubble of this city, and do what I do when I get back home. Go get a haircut, go grab lunch, go tour a plant, and talk to the everyday Americans and how they’re doing.“ Two years ago, we unveiled our Better Way agenda to address the major issues our country was facing. Since then, tax cuts, regulatory relief, and pro-growth policies have led to an economic boom that has made Americans more optimistic, confident and hopeful about the future. It isn’t just the economy, though. America is stronger at home and abroad, our communities are safer, and our military is stronger. Americans are Better Off Now. Want more info? Visit Better.gop At today’s House Republican Leadership press conference, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) shared what he’s hearing from people in his community: “The economy in Georgia is strong, it’s getting stronger, and clearly the people are better off today than they were just two or four years ago. Georgia had elevated itself, even during the lean times, to be the top state in the nation to do business. This was because of strong Republican policies led by a Republican governor and a Republican lead legislature. We also ranked as one of the top states in the nation as far as workforce and infrastructure. Georgia is now getting even stronger. “Because of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the Georgia legislature was able to pass a historic cut in income and corporate taxes during the last legislative session. That has further stimulated Georgia's economy. “Georgia’s unemployment is down to 4.2% and is going even lower. Contrast that to when I was in the state legislature and we were facing a 9% unemployment rate. The statistics are strong, the economy is strong, but the true story of how people are better off is not seen in the polls, is not seen in the statistics, it’s seen in the lives of every day Georgians. “If you want to see how things are going, go get a haircut at the Cartersville barber shop in Cartersville, Georgia. Talk to the ladies working in the barbershop and hear how they’ve had to hire more barbers, but more importantly, if you really want to know how things are going you get a haircut because people talk. Hear the stories of their clients of how happier they are and how much happier they are. “Or go have lunch at the Big Chicken in Marietta, Georgia or talk to the airman from Dobbins Air Reserve Base who are now able to share how the pay raise that we have given them is affecting their personal lives as well how the strong economy is helping them in their personal lives as well. “Or go attend an American Legion meeting in Acworth, Georgia and talk to the veterans who are now able to get jobs they weren't able to get before or how encouraged they are about the reforms that we are making in the VA. Go tour the Anheuser Busch plant in Cartersville, Georgia. “Talk to the line workers and hear how the additional income they have is being invested in what’s important to their families and how they are taking the vacations they once dreamed of or making an important improvement to their home. “I think it's best summarized by something that happened to me at church recently, when I went to church at Oakland Heights Baptist Church in my hometown. Just before the service started a gentleman came up to me and he looked at me and said, ‘Look, I don’t follow politics very closely, and I don't know what exactly you guys are doing, but whatever it is, just keep doing it. My life is better, my kids are better off and we don't know what’s going on, but whatever it is, its working.’ “It’s not just the tax cuts, its the other things as well that are making people better off as well. Including cutting onerous regulations, burdensome regulations, and getting the bureaucratic red tape off the backs of Americans and the businesses. “For instance, yesterday we passed unanimously on the House floor the bill back, a bill that I introduced that actually cuts the regulatory environment that was brought on by Dodd-Frank that was hurting a lot of charitable organizations. Especially those that provide housing for the neediest of Americans. For instance, habitat for humanity, they were trapped into onerous reporting requirements brought on by Dodd-Frank. 1,880 pages of regulation and many of their affiliates only have volunteers. They can not afford the huge compliance specialists to work just to make sure that they’re meeting the government regulations. We repealed that and allowed them to go to the simpler reporting forms as they report the mortgages and disclose the zero interest mortgages that they provide with these homes. “These are the types of things that matter to everyday Americans. So it’s important that you get out of the bubble of this city, and do what I do when I get back home. Go get a haircut, go grab lunch, go tour a plant, and talk to the everyday Americans and how they’re doing. Thank you.”
07.11.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after his bill, the Building Up Independent Lives and Dreams (BUILD) Act, passed the House of Representatives: “The BUILD Act is on the move. In just two short months, BUILD has gone from an idea, to passing out of the Financial Services Committee with a vote of 53-0, and now passing the House of Representatives unanimously. “This bill is a major help for non-profit organizations, like Habitat for Humanity, which provide low cost housing for those in need. The BUILD Act cuts government red-tape by reducing some of the overly burdensome regulations placed on charities by the Dodd-Frank Act. The difficulty and cost of compliance has been too much for some non-profits, causing them to spend less time fulfilling their mission of building homes for needy families, and more time sitting in an office doing regulatory paperwork. The BUILD Act recognizes that these non-profit organizations operate under different business models than traditional financial institutions, and provides a simpler method for providing mortgage disclosures.” Summary of H.R. 5953: • Allows Habitat for Humanity affiliates, and other similar organizations, to choose whether to use the TRID loan estimate and closing disclosure form or use the less complex GFE, HUD-1, and TILA forms. You can view the text of this legislation HERE.
07.10.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after President Trump nominated Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh as the next Supreme Court Justice: “The Judiciary Act of 1789 in Article III of the United States Constitution established the Supreme Court and, to this day, it is the court of last resort for those seeking to find justice. The highest court in the land must have justices focused on upholding the Constitution, not individuals looking to advance a political agenda. “President Trump’s selection of Judge Brett Kavanaugh reaffirms America’s commitment to selecting justices who will uphold the rule of law. We are a nation of laws and Judge Kavanaugh has shown commitment to this throughout his judicial career. I look forward to the Senate confirming him.”
06.28.2018	Rep. Loudermilk has issued the following statement after introducing the Religious Freedom Resolution, H.Con.Res. 126: “Religious persecution has been present throughout history, and was one of the prevalent factors that led our founders to declare independence from England. It is naïve to think that it could never reappear in America, which is why it’s imperative that the United States continue to acknowledge the importance of our religious freedom. Our founders were branded as traitors, imprisoned, and faced execution for their dedication to freedom, but they were willing to give their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor so future generations of Americans could live in freedom. To this day, people from around the world seek our shores as they flee religious persecution. I want to thank my colleagues for supporting this resolution, and reaffirming what our founders fought and died for. May the United States always be the land of the free.” The full text of H.Con.Res. 126 can be found, HERE.
06.28.2018	On Tuesday, June 26, 2018, Rep. Loudermilk hosted a telephone town hall and discussed some of the most important subjects impacting the nation and Georgia's 11th Congressional District. Some of the topics discussed: • Immigration • Economy • Healthcare (Social Security, Medicare) • Veterans • Defense To listen to the full telephone town hall audio, please click on the picture below:
06.25.2018	Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement after the House Financial Services Committee unanimously passed his bill, the Building Up Independent Lives and Dreams (BUILD) Act, H.R. 5953: “My BUILD Act cuts government red-tape by eliminating duplicative and overly burdensome regulations placed on charities by the Dodd-Frank Act. While some disagree with my work on reducing regulations, it’s clear that when it comes to helping those in need, my colleagues on both sides of the aisle agree. These nonprofit organizations operate under different business models than traditional financial institutions, and should be afforded a simpler, more streamlined method for providing mortgage disclosures. Nonprofits deserve this relief, and I urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to move quickly on this bipartisan bill so we can get it to the president’s desk.” The BUILD Act received strong support on both sides of the aisle and passed out of the House Financial Services Committee by a unanimous vote of 53-0. “We do not want to do anything to dampen the good work of Habitat for Humanity or similar charities. And, again, having them comply with the cost of the TRID Rule, to think that they would do fewer good works, or perhaps some charities not even be able to engage in the good works of this affordable housing program, is just untoward.” -Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) “The BUILD Act gives bona fide non-profits who make zero interest loans, like Habitat for Humanity, additional flexibility in deciding which disclosure forms they use. This common sense piece of legislation will ensure non-profits can focus on working in their communities to build homes, rather than sitting in an office. I’d like to thank Congressman Loudermilk for working with me on the BUILD Act, and ensuring that this has been a collaborative and bipartisan process.” -Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA) -Cosponsor of H.R. 5953 “The BUILD Act is an important step in liberating proven charitable organizations from the burdens of unnecessary compliance costs, something that deters them from actually helping and serving the communities where they are located. I urge my colleagues to support this great bipartisan measure [build] to untangle charities from regulatory burdens and allow them the flexibility they need to focus on their communities.” -Rep. Claudia Tenney (R-NY) “Representative Loudermilk's bill is a commonsense solution to right-size the rules for nonprofits that originate zero interest loans. By passing this legislation, we can help groups like Habitat for Humanity provide housing for even more families. I urge all my colleagues to support this bill and I yield back my time.” -Rep. Keith Rothfus (R-PA) “Mr. Loudermilk brought us legislation that would reform the regulatory regime to break down that barrier. Charitable organizations operate under different constraints than traditional financial institutions. They have different customers than traditional financial institutions. Certain mortgage rules simply should not be applied to them. H.R. 5953 is a reasonable bill that addresses a very real problem.” -Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) “I strongly support the Building Up Independent Lives and Dreams Act, the BUILD Act for short, which will relieve certain charities, like Habitat for Humanity, from the cost and complexity of the TRID Rule. Mr. Chairman, charities like Habitat should clearly not be subject to these rules which are obviously applicable to traditional mortgage lenders, not charitable organizations. Sections on balloon loans, for example, on the TRID forms are not applicable to groups like Habitat.” -Rep. Ted Budd (R-NC) You can view the text of this legislation HERE.
06.14.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) appeared on Fox Business to discuss the North Korea Summit and the reaction around Capitol Hill. On Democrats saying ending U.S. war games with South Korea will hurt our military readiness: “It’s not going to hurt our military readiness. The president said he is willing to suspend these annual war games if they totally denuclearize. These war games are to prepare to defend South Korea against a North Korea attack; and if we can bring peace to the region, why don’t we suspend them?... There is going to be verification.” On Dems saying the joint statement is very worrisome, imprecise, and the president is giving up substantial leverage: “They must be confused, Stuart... they must be talking about Obama’s agreement with Iran, because that is totally different from what I’m seeing. Nancy Pelosi said that, he [President Trump] gave concessions for vague promises – that is far from the truth. He [President Trump] said, we are going to go down this path; we’re going to verify, they are going to denuclearize, and we are going to make sure they do. It’s amazing to me they [Democrats] thought the JCPOA was a good deal - which actually did elevate Iran to the United States…it’s status quo. They put their party above America’s safety and security.”
06.08.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) appeared on Fox News to discuss the Congressional investigation which reported the Obama administration misled Congress and allowed Iran to access the U.S. financial system. On how the Obama administration allowed Iran access to the U.S. financial system: “It’s ironic that you had Barack Obama in 2007 criticize the federal government by saying too many deals were done behind closed doors, and done by the stroke of the pen without engaging the American people… That’s exactly what was done here. The [Obama] administration reported to Congress that they [Iran] would have no access to the American financial system; but behind closed doors, and with the stroke of the pen, they gave a license away.” On why American banks refused work with the Obama administration to help Iran recover overseas funds: “You’re right, there is enough patriotism still in this country – especially with our banks and our financial system…they know the difference between right and wrong. They understand that President Rouhani has repeatedly said that the chants of ‘Death to America!’ is what unites their country.” On how U.S. negotiations with Iran should have transpired: “First of all, this entire deal should have gone through Congress; and the reason President Obama didn’t do that, is because he knew Congress would not approve a deal like this. A deal that basically empowers one of our greatest enemies; an enemy that threatened to destroy the United States and our closest ally in the Middle East, Israel.” On the potential long-term ramifications of the Iran Deal: “They’ve continued to violate the sanctions agreed to, but the money they received - they immediately started purchasing anti-aircraft missiles, and they are strengthening their military. This is a rogue regime that hates the United States - they hate freedom, they hate everything we stand for, and we know that they are going to violate the sanctions; we know that they have continued to try to develop weapons. As part of the agreement, they banned access to their military installations. Anybody in their right mind would understand, if you are going to develop a nuclear weapon, you move it to your military installations and deny access to the inspectors.” On former President Obama’s leadership style, and how he handled the Iran negotiations: “The philosophy of ‘leading from behind’ by the previous administration - we now understand was behind the backs of the American people and behind the backs of Congress.”
06.08.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House passed the $15 billion Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act (H.R. 3): “It’s been nearly two decades since Congress passed a rescission bill, but last night, I and 209 of my colleagues voted to pass the largest rescission package in history. The Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act cut $15 billion of unspent taxpayer dollars from agency coffers that bureaucrats had tucked away. This historic act is another step in our efforts to get the federal government’s fiscal house in order.” This legislation rescinds expired and ineligible funds in 34 accounts, including: • $4.3 billion - Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program • $523 million - Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program • $5.1 billion - Children's Health Insurance Fund • $1.8 billion - Child Enrollment Contingency Fund • $800 million - Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovations • $500 million - Farm Security and Rural Investment Programs • $148 million - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service • $133 million - Railroad Unemployment Insurance Extended Benefits For more on H.R. 3, please click HERE.
05.29.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement to congratulate those students from Georgia’s 11th Congressional District who were accepted into our prestigious military service academies: “It’s an honor and a privilege to be accepted into one of our nation’s esteemed academies. Each of you, through your hard work and determination, now have a chance to join an elite list of individuals who have had an immeasurable impact on our nation and the world. I know you will represent Georgia’s 11th District with diligence and pride; and I look forward to celebrating your accomplishments in the future, as you become America’s next leaders.” U.S. Air Force Academy Tory M. Bartlett, Powder Springs, Hillgrove High School David T. Gray, II, Powder Springs, Mount Paran Christian School Jamal O. KuKu, Kennesaw, U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School U.S. Naval Academy Trevor R. Brooks, Acworth, Mount Paran Christian School Danielle C. Garcia, Marietta, U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School Petty Officer, Luis A. Medina, Kennesaw, U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School Malachi A. Rock, Acworth, North Cobb High School Sarah A. Skinner, Atlanta, Marist School Sarah G. Sorensen, Kennesaw, Alan C. Pope High School U.S. Military Academy Zachary T. Zalar, Kennesaw, Harrison High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Jesse L. DeJames, Acworth, North Paulding High School Hope M. Hicks, Marietta, Marietta High School
05.24.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement after introducing H.R. 5953, the Building Up Independent Lives and Dreams (BUILD) Act. “Community banks and credit unions are not the only ones feeling the regulatory burden brought on by the Dodd-Frank Act; some charities and non-profits are affected too. For example, in Georgia, Habitat for Humanity has experienced challenges with some mortgage disclosure regulations under Dodd-Frank. “My bill aims to cut some of the red-tape and alleviate unnecessary burdens brought on by Dodd-Frank regulations. This legislation will allow non-profits, such as Habitat for Humanity, to choose to be exempt from the overly complicated mortgage disclosure requirements of Dodd-Frank, and replace them with a more simplified system. “Habitat for Humanity, and others, want to devote their time to their mission, not sit in an office and jump through regulatory hoops. This strongly bipartisan bill will help get those volunteers out of the office and back to rebuilding lives, communities, and dreams.” Christopher Ptomey, senior director of government relations for Habitat for Humanity International said, “Driven by a vision that everyone needs a decent place to live, Habitat for Humanity works alongside families and individuals across all 50 states to build affordable homes. We do this work by offering a hand-up, not a hand-out. Rep. Loudermilk’s legislation offers a much needed and much appreciated hand-up to Habitat. By reducing paperwork and regulatory burdens, our local Habitat organizations can build more houses and help more people build strength, stability and self-reliance through homeownership.” Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA) is an original co-sponsor of this legislation. Summary of H.R. 5953: • Allows Habitat for Humanity affiliates, and other similar organizations, to choose whether to use the TRID loan estimate and closing disclosure form or use the less complex GFE, HUD-1, and TILA forms. You can view the text of this legislation HERE.
05.17.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement to announce the first Georgia Congressional Career Expo for Veterans and Reservists: “Our veterans and reservists put their lives on the line to protect the freedoms we all cherish. As a community, we should do what we can to provide them with meaningful employment opportunities when they get back home. This Expo will give our veterans and reservists a chance to bridge the gap between their military and civilian careers; and, at the same time, allow employers to meet and interview high-quality candidates. We hope to see many of you there.” Rep. Loudermilk will be joined by supporting staff from other offices in the Georgia delegation, including: Senator Johnny Isakson, Senator David Perdue, Rep. Karen Handel (GA-6), Rep. Rob Woodall (GA-7), and Rep. David Scott (GA-13). When: Friday, June 1, 2018 9:00am – 1:00pm ET Where: KSU Convocation Center 590 Cobb Ave Kennesaw, GA 30144 Parking Address: East Deck 305 Hopkins Dr. NW Kennesaw, GA 30144 Event Details: • Over 100 exhibitors • Approximately 75 hiring employers • There is no charge to participate in the event • Workshops from 9:00 to 11:00 AM 9:00 AM (Workshops) • Transitioning Workshop - resume writing, interview skills, and LinkedIn networking • How to start your own business 10:00 AM (Workshops) • Transitioning Workshop - resume writing, interview skills, and LinkedIn networking • How to finance your own business If you are a veteran or reservist looking for employment: CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP EMPLOYERS - Additional Details: Prior to the expo’s official opening, hiring companies (and other interested employers) are invited to attend Military 101 by VETLANTA and the US DOL. This seminar will teach employers how to translate a veteran’s learned military language into a sound business communication style.
05.08.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement after the House passed a resolution of disapproval for the CFPB’s auto lending guidance (S.J.Res. 57): “From the beginning, Dodd-Frank has suppressed economic growth by placing regulatory obstacles between borrowers and lenders. Its overregulation has even prevented new businesses from emerging. However, today the House of Representatives took a major step in rolling back another overreach by the CFPB, by nullifying its backdoor, illegal attempts to regulate automobile dealers. “In spite of the fact that Dodd-Frank explicitly prohibited the CFPB from regulating auto dealers, the CFPB enacted harmful rules regulating this industry without even allowing for public input.” Summary of S.J.Res. 57: The Congressional Review Act of 1996 allows Congress to disapprove of regulations issued by federal agencies. S.J.Res. 57 nullifies the CFPB’s 2013 auto lending guidance as the CFPB is explicitly prohibited by the Dodd-Frank Act from regulating automotive dealers.
05.08.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement after President Trump announced the United States will withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), commonly known as the Iran Nuclear Deal: “President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Deal could not come soon enough. This bad deal – negotiated and signed by the Obama administration – only emboldened Iran’s posture in the Middle East and further antagonized one of our closest allies, Israel. Even though reinstituting sanctions on Iran alone won’t be enough to curb their quest for nuclear weapons, it is a major step toward reigning in the Iranian regime. The President sent a clear message today that America will not sit idly by and watch Iran jeopardize Americans’ safety, our allies safety, or the common interests we share around the world.”
05.03.2018	Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement on the Government Customer Service Accountability and Improvement Act (H.R. 5402), a bill he and Rep. Gerald Connolly (D-VA) introduced: “Whether at a restaurant, a grocery store, or a bank, Americans expect courtesy and prompt service when engaging in commerce. When businesses do not provide these basic courtesies, they don’t last long. Unfortunately, Americans rarely experience great customer service when dealing with federal government agencies. In fact, the federal government ranks among the bottom of all industries in the United States in this category. “Government agencies seem to have forgotten that it’s the American taxpayers who pay their salaries, and they exist to serve the people. That is why I teamed up with my colleague, Rep. Gerald Connolly, to introduce the Government Customer Service Accountability and Improvement Act. This bi-partisan bill includes the creation of customer experience standards and performance plans for federal agencies. It is time we modernize, and guarantee the American people the courteous and timely service experience they deserve.” Summary of H.R. 5402: • Directs the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to select agencies to develop customer experience standards and performance plans. • Requires these standards and plans to be included in the agencies’ annual “Agency Performance Plans,” submitted to OMB; and must be published on the agency’s website. • Establishes a pilot program by which OMB will partner with agencies that fail to meet their customer experience standards and performance plans. • OMB is to submit annual reports on the effects of the pilot program to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs. • Implementation of this legislation shall take effect within three months of enactment.
04.27.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) announced the winners of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for the 11th District at the RobertKent Galleries in Marietta. Graciella Elaine, who attends River Ridge High School, won first place for her piece "The Magician." "Every year I'm blown away by the immense talent our high school students possess, and this year was no exception. All of the artwork submitted is worthy of recognition, and the display at the RobertKent Galleries was truly remarkable. Congratulations to our winners and each student who participated in this wonderful event.” In the 2018 competition, a total of 35 entries were submitted from 15 schools across Georgia’s 11th Congressional District. The winning artwork was hand-selected by an independent panel of local artists, and featured as part of a special exhibition at the RobertKent Galleries in Marietta. 2018 Congressional Art Competition Results: First Place Graciella Elaine Art Piece: "The Magician" School: River Ridge High School Instructor: Mary Jo Mulvey Second Place Taylor Baxley Art Piece: "Bella" School: Kennesaw Mountain High School Instructor: Lauren Davis Third Place Ragan Martin Art Piece: "Haunting Beauty" School: River Ridge High School Instructor: Chris Akins Honorable Mentions: Parker Metlick Art Piece: "Peggy" School: Lyndon Academy Instructor: Aubrey Metlick Damaris Zamudio Art Piece: "Memory Assortment" School: The Westminster Schools Instructor: Pamela Martinez
04.26.2018	It was a cold, rainy morning yesterday at Simpson Field, where Republican lawmakers gathered for the first time since the shooting at this same field last June, to practice for their annual Congressional Baseball game for local charities. Despite the weather and the dozens of Capitol Police scattered throughout the property, there were only hugs and laughs – no gun shots. The practice was short, and at its conclusion, a podium was set up along the third base line where a statement was read from Republican Majority Whip Steve Scalise, who couldn’t attend because he was recovering from another medical procedure due to the injuries he sustained during the shooting. Other lawmakers also made statements and took questions from reporters gathered on the field. Rep. Loudermilk speaking to the media after practice When you listened to the lawmakers and other members of the team, you got the sense this was a cathartic experience. They spoke candidly about their memories, and you could tell they were just grateful to be back on the field practicing. “Today [sic], we got to finish what was tragically interrupted a year ago – our baseball practice,” said Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA). “Even though this is a very emotional moment for all of us, it is important for us to be here and show the world that we will not let an act of evil deter us from this worthy cause.” Loudermilk, who is the DH (Designated Hitter) for the team, donned the same gold and black Kennesaw State University jersey that he was wearing on the morning of the shooting. When asked by reporters about the uniform, Loudermilk responded, “Wearing the same uniform I had on when the gunman was shooting at me was an important part of finishing the practice I never got to complete.” Matt Mika, shot twice during the ordeal, was on the field practicing – it was a sight to behold. He brought along a firefighter and an EMT, two first responders who worked to save his life. And just like Steve Scalise, Matt was severely wounded that morning, narrowly escaping with his life. Matt was shot in the chest as he was running towards the first base fence to escape the gunfire, and ended up lying on the ground next to the Capitol Police SUV. Loudermilk saw Matt shortly after he was shot, and stayed with him throughout the gun battle, reassuring him, until EMT’s were able to get to Matt. Rep. Loudermilk with Matt Mika On the morning of June, 14, 2017, left-wing activist James Hodgkinson, opened fire on 24 Republican lawmakers as they practiced for the charity baseball game in Alexandria, Virginia. House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, U.S. Capitol Police Officer Crystal Griner, Tyson Foods lobbyist Matt Mika, and staffer Zach Barth were all shot during the ordeal. Thankfully, each of them survived their injuries. Make no mistake about it, this was a politically motivated shooting, and this shooter wanted to kill Republicans. Besides the shooter’s social media being littered with hateful messages directed at Republicans, he asked Rep. Jeff Duncan as he left practice early –whether or not those were Republicans on the field. There were two important factors that day which prevented the shooter from killing dozens: a locked gate at third-base, which prevented the shooter from getting on the field where lawmakers would have been sitting ducks; and the security detail that accompanied Majority Whip Steve Scalise. If not for Steve Scalise being a part of leadership, and being at practice, there wouldn’t have been any police at all. The shootout between Hodgkinson and Capitol Police lasted about 7-8 minutes before Capitol Police and Alexandria Police shot him. Hodgkinson died from his injuries as he was transported to George Washington University Hospital. “I especially want to thank the Capitol Police Officers who saved our lives last year, and the ones who protected us today [sic] – and every day – so we could pay tribute to those affected by this horrible incident, and play the game we love,” said Rep. Barry Loudermilk. 2018 Republican Baseball Team
04.17.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) announced today that the 11th Congressional District‘s Art Competition artwork will be displayed at the RobertKent Galleries, in Marietta, through April 26. “Some of the best young artists in the state of Georgia are located in our district; and this is a wonderful opportunity to view the excellent work of our high school students before the winning entry travels to Washington, D.C. to be displayed in our nation’s capital,” stated Congressman Loudermilk. The annual Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students living in Georgia’s 11th Congressional District. The overall winner of this year’s competition will be recognized at a special awards ceremony in Washington, D.C., and have their artwork featured in the halls of the U.S. Capitol for a year. Artwork will be displayed at the RobertKent Galleries from April 17 to April 26: RobertKent Galleries 85 Church Street Marietta, GA 30060 http://robertkentgalleries.zenfolio.com/ The exhibit is free of charge and can be visited during the following hours: Monday 10 AM - 6 PM Tuesday 10 AM - 6 PM Wednesday 10 AM - 6 PM Thursday 10 AM - 6 PM Friday 10 AM - 7 PM Saturday 10 AM - 7 PM Sunday Call for hours
04.12.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement after voting in favor of Rep. Bob Goodlatte’s (R-VA) balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution, H.J.Res. 2: “Americans are frustrated with massive federal spending, huge deficits, and an out of control national debt. Today, Congress was given the opportunity to change course and put the federal government on the path to fiscal responsibility by passing a balanced budget amendment. Unfortunately, House Democrats rejected this idea, blocking passage of this measure. Although 85% of Americans say they support a balanced federal budget, House Democrats chose to continue the status-quo of limitless spending, further increasing our $21 trillion debt. “Even though this Constitutional amendment did not pass, Congress still has the power to reduce spending and address the debt by passing a balanced federal budget. In the coming weeks, the Republican Study Committee (RSC) will again introduce a balanced federal budget, as we have done over the past several years. When this legislation comes to the floor, I call on all my colleagues to support the RSC budget, and show the American people we are serious about our nation’s financial stability, and our children’s future.” Summary of the balanced budget amendment (H.J.Res. 2): • The federal government cannot spend more money than it takes in without a three fifths vote of each chamber of Congress. • Requires a three-fifths vote of each chamber to increase the debt limit. • Congress is authorized to waive these requirements when a declaration of war is in effect.
03.21.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House passed the Right to Try Act of 2018 (H.R. 5247): "It’s bizarre that a majority of House Democrats blocked this potentially life-saving bill from passing last week. This bill will increase access for terminally ill patients to experimental drugs that have not gotten final FDA approval. These individuals should not have to leave our country to find relief, they deserve the right to try anything that may prolong their life.” For more information on H.R. 5247, please CLICK HERE.
03.15.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House passed the bipartisan STOP School Violence Act of 2018 (H.R. 4909): “We must ensure our children are safe, and this bill is a step in the right direction to securing our schools. It’s time we prioritize our children’s protection at school, as we do our celebrities, professional athletes, and politicians. “The STOP School Violence Act will provide funding for training of law enforcement, teachers, and students to identify and stop acts of violence before they take place. It will also allow for funding of technology and equipment to improve school security. I want to thank my colleagues and Rep. Rutherford for their action on this common-sense legislation.” To read more on H.R. 4909, please CLICK HERE. ###
03.13.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement after President Trump announced Mike Pompeo, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, to replace Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State: “Today, we find ourselves at another pivotal moment for our nation. President Trump’s administration has made progress in dealing with denuclearizing North Korea and voiced plans to reform our country’s trade deals – none of which will be possible without a steady hand directing the State Department. That steady hand will be my former colleague, Mike Pompeo. Mike’s time as a member of Congress and as Director of the CIA undoubtedly makes him an excellent candidate to be the United States’ next world-wide ambassador.” ###
03.06.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement regarding House passage of the Comprehensive Regulatory Review Act (H.R. 4607): Video Transcription: “I introduced the Comprehensive Regulatory Review Act because the consistent message I’m hearing from financial institutions back home, especially the small community banks and credit unions, is they are overburdened with regulatory paperwork – much of which is outdated or not applicable to their industries. They describe the impact it has on their business as ‘death by a thousand cuts.’ This bipartisan piece of legislation will require these regulatory agencies to do a review of all their regulatory portfolios every seven years, instead of once a decade as they are doing now. It also requires them to remove any outdated regulations and tailor other regulations to actually fit industries they are overseeing.” H.R. 4607 • Amends the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act of 1996 to expand the required comprehensive review of financial regulatory requirements. • The review must be performed at least every 7, rather than 10, years. • After performing the review, a regulator must consider tailoring regulations to limit specified burdens. • The bill specifies information and criteria the CFPB must use when conducting its review. H.R. 4607 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 264-143.
03.06.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today announced the 2018 Congressional Art Competition, a contest that recognizes the artistic talents of high school students in the 11th Congressional District and nationwide. “I believe some of the most talented young artists live right here in Georgia’s 11th Congressional District. The artwork we’ve seen in previous years has been amazing, and I believe this year will build on that tradition,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “The winners of this competition will not only have their artwork displayed at the U.S. Capitol, but will have the opportunity to share this exciting accomplishment with their friends and family for years to come.” The competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 11th Congressional District. To showcase the remarkable artistic talent of students throughout the District, The RobertKent Galleries will publically display all submissions for this year’s Congressional Art Competition from April 16 through April 26, 2018. A panel of local artists will serve as judges and determine the contest award winners. All entries must arrive no later than Tuesday, April 10, 2018, by 5:00 p.m. The Congressional office is located at 9898 Hwy. 92, Woodstock, GA, 30188. For additional information on how to enter, please contact Rep. Loudermilk’s office at (770) 429 -1776. Launched in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition recognizes the nation’s top visual artists from high schools across the nation. Sponsored by the Congressional Institute, this annual competition allows students to compete for the opportunity to display their artwork at the U.S. Capitol. To view the official rules and regulations, visit our website HERE. ###
03.01.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement regarding House passage of H.R. 1865 the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017: “Whether we choose to believe it or not, sex trafficking is a huge problem here in the United States, and it is time we bring those responsible to justice. In 2016, my home state of Georgia ranked sixth in the nation for reported human trafficking cases, but regardless of where you live, states need the tools necessary to prosecute and convict those involved in this horrendous crime. Thankfully, this bill will hold websites accountable for unlawfully facilitating and promoting sex trafficking – accountability which they will no longer be able to avoid due to outdated law.” For more information on H.R. 1865, please click HERE. For the number of human trafficking cases reported by state, please click HERE. ###
02.22.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement after meeting with Georgia Governor Nathan Deal yesterday regarding state tax reform: "During my meeting with Governor Deal, we discussed several issues important to Georgia. Under Governor Deal’s leadership, Georgia has remained one of the nation’s best states to do business. We are competitive on a global scale and our economy is growing; but according to the governor, we can do even better by cutting state taxes on individuals, families, and small businesses. A bill is moving through the legislature that will cut our state income taxes for the first time in 80 years and, according to Governor Deal, these cuts are only possible because of Congress’ historic Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. I encourage our state legislators to work together to pass this legislation for the sake of all Georgians." See more about Governor Deal’s plan HERE.
02.06.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement regarding the House of Representatives passing the Congressional Accountability Act (H.R. 4924 and H.Res. 724), which reforms the process for responding to harassment and discrimination in Congress: share: f t Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement regarding the House of Representatives passing the Congressional Accountability Act (H.R. 4924 and H.Res. 724), which reforms the process for responding to harassment and discrimination in Congress: “Sexual harassment and discrimination have no place in any walk of life. And while these bills do not completely resolve the issue, they will provide for a more transparent and respectful work environment. “As an original co-sponsor of these bills, my colleagues and I have worked to update the reporting and investigative process, provide more accountability, and hold ourselves to a higher standard on Capitol Hill.” H.R. 4924 • Amends and updates the procedures outlined in the Congressional Accountability Act related to the consideration of harassment, discrimination and retaliation violations. • Requires Members to repay settlements involving claims of violations, institute an automatic referral to the appropriate ethics committee for all claims involving a Member of Congress or senior staff, require the retention of records by the Office of Compliance, extend protections to unpaid staff, including interns, and requires an employee training program on an employee’s rights and protections under the Congressional Accountability Act. H.Res. 724 • Requires offices to adopt an anti-harassment and anti-discrimination policy, establish the Office of Employee Advocacy, and prohibit sexual relationships between employees and Members of Congress.
02.02.2018	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has named two new members to his staff. Wayne Dodd will serve as District Director in the Georgia offices, and Brandon Cockerham will serve as Communications Director. Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement: "I’m very excited to have Wayne and Brandon join our team. My Congressional staff has done an exceptional job serving the people of the 11th Congressional District, and I am confident the skills and experience Wayne and Brandon possess will be a great asset as we continue serving." Wayne Dodd was the former Marketing Director for Dato Technologies, Inc. and a Cobb County native. He is a graduate of South Cobb High School and is also married to Cobb native, Wanda Gail. They have four children and eight grandchildren. “Representing Congressman Loudermilk is an honor beyond words. I realize from my years of knowing the congressman he is the ultimate, positive representative for the American people, and I value the opportunity to make a difference in the America that I love through this service.” -Wayne Dodd Brandon Cockerham was the former Public Relations Assistant at Judicial Watch, Inc. and is a native of Charlotte, North Carolina. Prior to working at Judicial Watch, he worked for the Committee on Natural Resources in the House of Representatives. “Ever since I came to Washington, D.C. it has been my dream to work for a constitutional conservative like Congressman Loudermilk. I’m eager to get to work and to represent Georgia’s 11th district and the Congressman in the best manner possible.” -Brandon Cockerham
01.31.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement answering President Trump’s call for Congress to empower Cabinet Secretaries with the authority to inject merit back into the federal workforce. “In Tuesday’s State of the Union Address, the President’s call for congressional action was loud and clear: “All Americans deserve accountability and respect –and that is what we are giving them. So tonight, I call on the Congress to empower every Cabinet Secretary with the authority to reward good workers –and to remove Federal employees who undermine the public trust or fail the American people.” -President Trump, SOTU January 30, 2018 “For more than a year I have been laying the groundwork, working with the Administration and my colleagues in the House to fulfill this request. H.R. 559, the Modern Employment Reform, Improvement, and Transformation (MERIT) Act is the answer to the call - to assure the American people are served by a government they trust. “In June of 2017, the President signed the Veterans Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act. Through the civil service reforms in that legislation, the VA Secretary has been empowered to cut through destructive red tape and increase employee accountability, resulting in the removal of over 1,400 underperforming employees, and hundreds of employment suspensions or demotions. ”The effect of injecting accountability at the VA has ensured better care and treatment of our veterans. It is time to ensure the same respect and diligence is paid to all Americans by all agencies. The MERIT Act will provide a desperately needed update to federal law to ensure efficiency, transparency, and accountability within the civil service – answering the President's call to empower his team to initiate the changes needed to make American great again.” Background The Modern Employment Reform, Improvement and Transformation (MERIT) Act, H.R. 559, offers an alternative dismissal protocol for all government agencies. It gives federal managers the option to expedite the dismissal process of bad employees, while still allowing administrators to choose to use the current system. Supporters of this legislation include: Americans for Prosperity, The R Street Institute, Council of Citizens Against Government Waste, Americans for Tax Reform, Campaign for Liberty, FreedomWorks, Less Government, National Taxpayers Union, and Taxpayers Protection Alliance. Read more about the MERIT Act HERE.
01.31.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement in regard to the train crash in Virginia: "In route to the Congressional Republican Annual Retreat, the train carrying members of Congress, spouses and staff collided with a garbage truck attempting to cross the tracks. I thank God for His protection, as my wife and I are fine, but our hearts and our prayers are with the victims, and their families. "We are very thankful to the first responders and local law enforcement for their professionalism and quick reaction. Also we are thankful for the congressmen who are doctors being first to help, as they literally pried open the doors and jumped off the train to assist those injured."
01.22.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement following the Senate vote to fund the government and our military, effectively ending the shutdown of the federal government: “I am relieved that this senseless government shutdown is coming to a close. Democrats in the House and Senate manufactured this crisis to force Congress to grant amnesty to people who are not legally in our country. “Once the Democrat showboating at the expense of our military and thousands of government workers is over, we must address the underlying problem, that the current budgeting process is broken. During the three week extension under this CR, the Senate must take up the full appropriations package that was passed by the House back in September. Otherwise, we will just give Democrats an opportunity to hold American citizens hostage with another government shutdown.”
01.18.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House Financial Services Committee passed his bill, H.R. 4607- the Comprehensive Regulatory Review Act (CRRA), earlier today: “One of the problems that exists within federal regulatory agencies is the failure to clean up their regulatory portfolios. Although current law requires periodic reviews of regulations, many agencies still enforce duplicative, outdated, or irrelevant regulations. H.R. 4607 is a bipartisan bill that puts teeth in the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act (EGRPRA) by amending the law to ensure that financial regulatory agencies do more than just ‘check the box’ when conducting periodic reviews of their regulations. “I appreciate the efforts of the bill co-sponsors, Reps Josh Gottheimer (D-NJ) and Sean Duffy (R-WI), to streamline government by eliminating unnecessary regulations that stifle innovation, competition, and economic growth. This bill is a huge step in the right direction.” H.R. 4607 • Requires Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act (EGRPRA) of 1996 reviews to be done every 7 years, instead of 10 • Expands EGRPRA reviews to include all regulated institutions, instead of only insured depository institutions • Expands EGRPRA to include the CFPB in addition to the OCC, Fed, and FDIC • Codifies the NCUA’s participation in EGRPRA, as the NCUA participated in the most recent EGRPRA review voluntarily • Requires regulators to tailor regulations that they find to be outdated, duplicative, unnecessary, or overly burdensome, instead of only producing a report o Current law already requires the agencies to eliminate unnecessary regulations. This provision simply adds a tailoring requirement. • Requires the CFPB to use the findings from its existing 5-year reviews in its EGRPRA reports so the process is not duplicative and does not overlap • This bill modernizes and improves EGRPRA regulatory reviews
01.18.2018	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting on a Continuing Resolution that included funding for health care (CHIP) for children and our military: "Thousands of children and families in Georgia and across the nation were let down by Democrats in Washington D.C. Thursday evening. Democrats are playing political games that jeopardize access to health care for children, place a significant burden on our military men and women, and put our national security at risk. The Children's Health Insurance Program, which funds Peachcare, covers about 131,000 children in Georgia and nearly 6 million nationwide. Today, Democrats chose party politics over the people. "Tonight was the third time in this Congress that I, and fellow Republicans, voted to extend funding for CHIP, and Democrats have voted against it each time. This bill reauthorizes CHIP for six years, as well as suspends a number of overreaching taxes in Obamacare, and funds the government and our military. "A Continuing Resolution is not the way we should fund the government; but, with Democrats continual filibuster in the Senate, we must do what we can to ensure the safety and security of all Americans. I continue to implore the Senate to take up the full appropriations package we passed in the House last September." H.R. 195- Extension of Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018 • Extends funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for a record six years • Suspends key overreaching taxes from Obamacare o Health Insurance Tax (HIT) o The “Cadillac” Tax o Health Device Tax • Extends the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) • Funds our military and government through February 16
12.19.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after the House voted on final passage of the historic Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “This is an investment in the American people. By lowering taxes for millions of middle-income Americans, by doubling the standard deduction, and by getting government out of the way so American businesses can grow - we are investing in America. This bill is about Americans and the American dream. It is about restoring the land of opportunity for every American. It is about empowering the individual to succeed, not continuing to let the government choose winners and losers. This bill allows Americans to keep more of their hard-earned money so they can invest in what is important to them and their families. By passing this historic tax cut and tax reform bill, we are saying we trust the American people to handle their own money more than we trust the Washington establishment. “Although this bill isn’t perfect, it is a giant step forward. I was proud to cast my vote on behalf of the people of Georgia.” Tax Reform Highlights (Courtesy of the House Committee on Ways and Means) For individuals and families, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual taxes and sets the rates at 0%, 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37% so people can keep more of their hard-earned money. Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what you earn each year from taxes – from $6,350 and $12,700 under current law to $12,000 and $24,000 for individuals and married couples, respectively. Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local taxes– just like current law – up to $10,000. Gives individuals and families the ability to choose among sales, income and property taxes to best fit their unique circumstances. Takes action to support more American families by: Expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000 for single filers and married couples to help parents with the cost of raising children. The tax credit is fully refundable up to $1,400 and begins to phase-out for families making over $400,000. Parents must provide a child’s valid Social Security Number in order to receive this credit. Preserving the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit to help families care for their children and older dependents such as a disabled grandparent who may need additional support. Preserving the Adoption Tax Credit so parents can continue to receive additional tax relief as they open their hearts and homes to an adopted child. Preserves the mortgage interest deduction – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. For all homeowners with existing mortgages that were taken out to buy a home, there will be no change to the current mortgage interest deduction. For homeowners with new mortgages on a first or second home, the home mortgage interest deduction will be available up to the first $750,000 of the mortgage. Continues and expands the deduction for charitable contributions so people can continue to donate to their local church, charity, or community organization. Eliminates Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty tax – providing families with much-needed relief and flexibility to buy the health care that’s right for them if they choose. Maintains the Earned Income Tax Credit to provide important tax relief for low-income Americans working to build better lives for themselves. Improves savings vehicles for education by allowing families to use 529 accounts to save for elementary, secondary and higher education. Provides support for graduate students by continuing to exempt the value of reduced tuition from taxes. Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) so Americans can continue to save for their future. Increases the exemption amount from the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) to reduce the complexity and tax burden for millions of Americans. Provides immediate relief from the Death Tax by doubling the amount of the current exemption to reduce uncertainty and costs for many family-owned farms and businesses when they pass down their life’s work to the next generation. For job creators of all sizes, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 21% (beginning Jan. 1, 2018) – down from 35%, which today is the highest in the industrialized world – the largest reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate in our nation’s history. Delivers significant tax relief to Main Street job creators by: Offering a first-ever 20% tax deduction that applies to the first $315,000 of joint income earned by all businesses organized as S corporations, partnerships, LLCs, and sole proprietorships. For Main Street job creators with income above this level, the bill generally provides a deduction for up to 20% on business profits– reducing their effective marginal tax rate to no more than 29.6%. Establishing strong safeguards so that wage income does not receive the lower marginal effective tax rates on business income – helping to ensure that Main Street tax relief goes to the local job creators it was designed to help most. Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers – unleashing growth of jobs, productivity, and paychecks. Protects the ability of small businesses to write off interest on loans, helping these Main Street entrepreneurs start or expand a business, hire workers, and increase paychecks. Preserves important elements of the existing business tax system, including: Retaining the low-income housing tax credit that encourages businesses to invest in affordable housing so families, individuals, and seniors can find a safe and comfortable place to call home. Preserving the Research & Development Tax Credit that encourages our businesses and workers to develop cutting-edge “Made in America” products and services. Retaining the tax-preferred status of private-activity bonds that are used to finance valuable infrastructure projects. Eliminates the Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax, thereby lowering taxes and eliminating confusion and uncertainty so American job creators can focus on growing their business and hiring more workers, rather than on burdensome paperwork. Modernizes our international tax system so America’s global businesses will no longer be held back by an outdated “worldwide” tax system that results in double taxation for many of our nation’s job creators. Makes it easier for American businesses to bring home foreign earnings to invest in growing jobs and paychecks in our local communities. Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that now reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad.
12.14.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting on legislation to call for greater transparency in Iran’s financial dealings: “Iran has repeatedly proven that it cannot be trusted. As the world’s leading state-sponsor of terror, Iran continues to show a complete disregard for human life through its tangled, highly-financed web of terror. The bills passed by the House today put Iran’s illicit financial activities under the microscope, shedding light into the regime’s volatile mix of money laundering, human rights abuses, and terrorist financing. “Iran provides millions of dollars of funds and weapons to Hamas and other terrorist organizations. These organizations use these funds and weapons to carry out attacks on United States citizens and our allies. That’s why I voted for legislation that would make it more difficult for Iran to purchase commercial aircraft from the United States – or companies that do business with us – without strict oversight and control.” Background H.R. 1638, the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act Requires the Secretary of the Treasury to report to Congress on the assets held by Iran’s senior political, military, and business leaders, and on the probable sources and uses of the assets. If necessary, this report could be classified and available to Members of Congress. Urges the U.S. Treasury Secretary to seek information for the report from sources that would search and, if necessary, translate publicly available “high-veracity official records” overseas, and provide methods to search and analyze such data in ways that are useful to law enforcement. H.R. 4324, Strengthening Oversight of Iran’s Access to Finance Act Requires the U.S. Treasury Secretary to make a certification to Congress regarding transactions authorized for financial institutions in connection with the export of aircraft to Iran. This certification would verify that any authorized financial transactions would not benefit Iranians sanctioned for weapons proliferation, terrorism, or human rights abuses in Syria.
12.13.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA), a member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced the Comprehensive Regulatory Review Act, H.R. 4607. This legislation will strengthen, improve, and expand the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act’s (EGRPRA) review process. “When I meet with community banks and credit unions across Georgia, I consistently hear of one issue that makes it difficult for them to best serve their customers. Most describe it as the “death by a thousand cuts,” administered by excessive, and often non-applicable or outdated, regulations from federal bureaucracies. “In the short time I have been in Congress, one truth I have learned is that there are some bureaucrats who never saw a regulation they didn’t like, no matter how outdated, non-relevant or burdensome it may be. The Comprehensive Regulatory Review Act requires financial regulatory agencies to complete a review of their regulations every seven years and identify those regulations that are duplicative, outdated or over-burdensome. “The CRRA will require these agencies to eliminate, modify or tailor unnecessary regulations every seven years, not just pencil-whip a report to Congress, as is required by the current EGRPRA laws. This bill is about rightsizing government regulators so they are more efficient, effective and up-to-date.” The Comprehensive Regulatory Review Act: o Requires EGRPRA (Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act) reviews to be done every 7 years instead of every 10 o Expands EGRPRA reviews to include all regulated institutions, not just insured depository institutions o Expands EGRPRA to include the CFPB in addition to the OCC, Fed, and FDIC o Codifies the NCUA’s participation in EGRPRA, as the NCUA participated in the most recent EGRPRA review voluntarily o Requires regulators to tailor regulations that they find to be outdated, unnecessary, or unduly burdensome, instead of just producing a report o Overall, the bill modernizes and improves the EGRPRA review process to account for the many changes that have taken place since EGRPRA was enacted Original co-sponsors of this legislation include Rep. Josh Gottheimer (D-NJ) and Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI). Rep. Josh Gottheimer stated, "We need targeted guardrails to protect consumers from scam artists and polluters, but our economic growth is bogged down by outdated and duplicative regulations. A smart, pragmatic process requiring regular review of regulations will keep businesses on track instead of buried in paperwork and hamstrung by red tape. The Comprehensive Regulatory Review Act will ensure that consumers are protected, businesses can grow, and [our] robust financial sector will thrive." To read the full text of H.R. 4607, click HERE.
12.07.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement in support of legislation that protects law-abiding citizens’ ability to carry firearms: “The only thing that can stop a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun. A few months ago, my colleagues and I were in a fight for our lives on a baseball field in Alexandria, Virginia. Due to gun laws in Washington D.C., my colleagues and I – many of whom hold valid gun licenses in our respective states – were unarmed. I never want to be in a gun fight again, but definitely not without a gun. "Our Constitution is clear; ‘the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.’ Governments at all levels have sought to restrict our Second Amendment protections, but the House has just taken a momentous step in protecting this right. “Law abiding citizens should not have to wonder if their right to carry is 'valid' from state to state. This legislative package, which includes the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, protects a law-abiding citizens’ right to protect themselves across state lines.” Background H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act · Allows law-abiding individuals with valid concealed carry permits to carry a concealed handgun in any state that allows concealed carry. · Retains private individual, state or local government’s ability to restrict the possession of concealed firearms on certain property. · Clarifies that federal law enforcement officers, including retired and off-duty officers, are not subject to gun restrictions in federally-defined school zones. H.R.4477, the Fix NICS Act of 2017 · Strengthens the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. · Requires the Bureau of Justice Statistics to conduct a study on bump stocks. To read more about H.R. 38 and H.R. 4477, click HERE.
12.06.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement in support of President Trump’s decision to recognize Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel: “When I visit with members of the Knesset, the Israeli Parliament, I go to Jerusalem. Both times I have met with the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, we met in Jerusalem. And my meeting with President Reuven Rivlin, of Israel, was also in Jerusalem. Jerusalem is the seat of the Israeli government; it is the location of their Parliament building and the offices of the Prime Minister and President. “It is the diplomatic right of any sovereign nation to choose where their nation’s capital is located; and, for 67 years, Israel has recognized Jerusalem as their capital. It is beyond time for the United States to embrace reality and formally recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. “In 1995 Congress passed, by an overwhelming bi-partisan majority, an act to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and to move the United States Embassy to Jerusalem. I applaud President Trump for addressing this and formally recognizing Jerusalem as Israel’s capital.”
11.16.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the House passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: "Though the tax reform bill is a work in progress, this is a historic day - as House Republicans passed the most significant reforms to our tax code in over 30 years. To the young married couple just starting out, this is for you; we doubled the standard deduction so the first $24,000 a couple makes is tax free. To the average family of four, this is for you; under our plan, the average family of four will keep about $1,200 more of their hard-earned money. To the small business owner, this is for you; our plan gives small businesses the tools they need to compete. To the American worker, this is for you; our plan makes America competitive and will bring economic growth and better jobs. Americans should not need a team of lawyers or accountants to fill out their taxes – that's why we passed this simple and fair tax relief for hardworking Americans." Tax Reform Highlights (Courtesy of the House Committee on Ways and Means) Individuals and Families: Lowers individual tax rates to 0, 12%, 25%, and 35% and maintains the top rate of 39.6%, but raises income threshold to $1 million for couples and $500,000 for singles. Roughly doubles the standard deduction from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. Establishes a new consolidated family credit, which includes expanding the child tax credit from $1,000 to $1,600 for each child and providing new credits of $300 each for the taxpayer, spouse and other dependents. Preserves the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit. Preserves the Adoption Tax Credit. Preserves the deduction for charitable contributions. Preserves the home mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the home mortgage interest deduction for newly purchased homes for interest on up to $500,000 of mortgage principal. Continues to allow individuals to write off the cost of state and local property taxes up to $10,000. Repeals the alternative minimum tax. Begins phasing out the estate tax by immediately doubling the exemption amount and repealing the estate tax after seven years. Business: Lowers the top corporate tax rate to 20%. Reduces the top tax rate on pass through business income to no more than 25%. Provides a new, low tax rate of 9% for the first $75,000 (joint filers) of income earned by an active owner in a pass-through business of any type. Establishes safeguards to distinguish between individual wage income and “pass through” business income. Allows businesses to immediately write-off the full cost of purchases of new or used equipment. Protects the ability of small businesses and any businesses with “floor plan” inventory financing to write off the interest on loans. Modernizes our international tax system by moving to a “territorial” system. Returns income trapped overseas through “deemed” repatriation. Includes “base-erosion” rules to prevent companies from hiding U.S. profits in offshore affiliates. Provides an exclusion from the limitation on deductibility of net business interest for taxpayers that paid or accrued interest on “floor plan financing indebtedness.” CLICK HEREto read the full legislative text of theTax Cuts and Jobs Act. CLICK HEREto read the section-by-section summary of theTax Cuts and Jobs Act. CLICK HEREto read the policy highlights in theTax Cuts and Jobs Act. CLICK HEREto read examples of how theTax Cuts and Jobs Actwill help Americans of all walks of life.
11.15.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement regarding the passage of the 21st Century Flood Reform Act: “With insurance for your car, home, and business, competition helps drive prices down and forces companies to compete for your business. Too often, government regulation and intervention stand in the way of innovation and competition. In the nearly three years I have been in Congress, I’ve seen the mess government makes when it has a monopoly in an area that could be better managed in the private sector. This is why I am encouraged by the positive reforms we are making to the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Improvements to mapping, more private sector choices for policyholders, and more openness for prospective homeowners are some of the wins found in H.R. 2874. While this bill is a step in the right direction, it also recognizes the need for future improvement by including bi-partisan text of an amendment introduced by Rep. David Scott (D-GA) and myself, to require a study of ways to streamline the NFIP in the future.” H.R. 2874, 21st Century Flood Reform Act: • Reauthorizes the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) for 5 years. • Ensures that private flood insurance policies can be used to meet NFIP requirements and eliminates the write-your-own non-compete clause to grow the private sector flood insurance market. • Gradually increases premiums on subsidized NFIP policies to protect taxpayers and bring policies closer to actuarial rates. • Implements mapping improvements so flood insurance policies are based on more updated information. • Improves transparency and disclosure so homeowners can know their property’s flood history and future risk. • Includes the text of an amendment introduced by Rep. Loudermilk and Rep. David Scott (D-GA), passed unanimously in committee, to require a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study of how the NFIP may be simplified for policyholders, insurance companies, agents, mortgage lenders, and vendors. Read the full text of H.R. 2874 HERE.
11.15.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA), along with Sens. Perdue and Isakson, led the effort to include a provision in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018, that opens up the runway and control tower at Dobbins Air Reserve Base (ARB) for joint-use. "I commend my colleagues in the House and Senate, especially Georgia Senators Perdue and Isakson, for working with us to include this landmark provision in this year’s NDAA. Senator Perdue advanced the Amendment in the Senate and served on the Conference Committee for the bill. Opening up the runway and control tower at Dobbins ARB for joint-use will not only expand the base’s long-term economic impact on our community, but it will also enhance the partnerships between the Air Force, Lockheed, and other organizations located at Dobbins. “Transportation is a key element for businesses looking to expand, and this change opens up a whole new realm of possibilities that do not currently exist. Dobbins ARB is prime real-estate for research development, transportation, and disaster relief services. With the support of the Air Force, Lockheed, and the local community, the door is now open for the continued growth and expansion of Dobbins ARB and Cobb County.” Background This provision within the NDAA approves the reclassification of Dobbins ARB runway and tower from a restricted Department of Defense and Lockheed-Martin use-only to a joint-use asset. In 1989, Congress acted to restrict any joint-use of the runway and control tower at Dobbins ARB. While this action was deemed appropriate at the time, the factors that led to this action are outdated. Cobb County is home to Dobbins ARB and many other joint partners from all other branches of the DOD. Co-located with Dobbins ARB is Air Force Plant 6, which hosts Lock-heed Martin’s production and modification facility for the C-130, C-5, and the F-35. Other tenant organizations of Dobbins ARB include the Georgia National Guard headquarters, which employs 15,000 civilians and uniformed personnel, and Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRO), which comprises approximately 1,000 high-tech jobs. Section 2877 of the NDAA, which allows for the joint-use of Dobbins ARB, can be found here.
11.14.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting for the conference report to accompany H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (NDAA): “We have the greatest military in the world, not simply because we have the best aircraft, ships, weapons, and equipment, but because we have men and women dedicated to preserving freedom and willing to sacrifice daily for this cause. When we ask these brave men and women to go into harm’s way, we owe it to them to provide the most up-to-date and advanced weapons to do their jobs. “By passing the NDAA today, not only are we modernizing our weapons systems, we are giving our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines a well-deserved and greatly needed pay raise. I am extremely proud of our military, and I cast this vote for them, and the tremendous service they provide our country.” Background • For more than half a century, the National Defense Authorization Act has been fundamental to Congress’ constitutional obligation to “provide for the common defense.” • H.R.2810 - National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 continues this obligation to our service members. • Our nation’s military has been severely underfunded, due to years of budget cuts that have reduced our military budget by nearly a quarter. • FY-18’s NDAA continues its reform of the Department of Defense. • This legislation provides the men and women serving in our military around the world and at home much-needed resources to be successful. • Establishes a 2.4% pay raise for our troops, which they are entitled to by law, and protects that annual raise from being cut by this or future administrations. • Prohibits the closing of several veteran medical treatment facilities outside of the U.S. • Supports and strengthens current efforts to eliminate the Islamic state from Iraq and Syria. • Re-establishes our military’s readiness and global proficiency. • Provides for missile defense, to protect our nation from foreign nuclear threats. • Modernizes and builds our naval and air forces, to respond to new and emerging threats, like N. Korea and Iran. • Reforms the DOD procurement system and implements an audit of the DOD. • Preserves special survivor indemnity payments to surviving military spouses. • Prevents the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the U.S. or certain countries, and prohibits the building or modification of facilities in the United States for housing Guantanamo detainees. More information HERE.
11.02.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after the House released its plan for comprehensive tax reform: “Americans at every income level deserve to keep more of the money they work so hard to earn. When my son and daughter-in-law were first married a few years ago, they only made about $24,000 a year. A family living on that amount has to count every penny and cut every corner to make ends meet. Even though the budget is tight, they know how to spend their money much better than the government. “The ‘Tax Cuts and Jobs Act’ released by the House GOP earlier today drops the tax rate for a family making $24,000 per year to zero, saving them over $2,000. The plan not only cuts taxes for individuals but also for America’s businesses - allowing them to expand and create more jobs. While this plan is not perfect, the tax relief it provides for millions of hardworking Americans is too important to ignore. I look forward to participating in the legislative process and delivering tax-relief to our taxpayers." For information and resources about the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” visit Loudermilk.House.Gov.
11.02.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting in favor of the “Protecting Seniors Access to Medicare Act of 2017,” which repeals the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) of the Affordable Care Act, also known as death panels: “Repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board from the ACA is a huge step in the right direction. If your car has engine trouble, should you be forced to get permission from the local Department of Motor Vehicles before you have it fixed? Of course not - you go to a mechanic you choose and have it repaired. So, why should any American have to rely on a federal bureaucracy to determine which of their health care issues may be treated and which may not? But, that is precisely the situation many Americans will face if Congress does not stop the implementation of the Independent Payment Advisory Board mandated by Obamacare. Today, the House voted to pass H.R. 849, which repeals these ‘death panels’ and, if passed by the Senate, will end this egregious encroachment on personal freedom.” Background: · H.R. 849, the “Protecting Seniors Access to Medicare Act of 2017,” repeals the Affordable Care Act’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB would give authority to 15 unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats to make unilateral decisions regarding cuts to America’s Medicare program). · If IPAB were to go into effect, Congress would have limited power to make modifications to spending cuts approved by the IPAB, thereby reducing seniors’ access to quality care. Read the full text of H.R. 849 HERE.
10.26.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after the House agreed to the Senate Amendment to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the congressional budget for fiscal year 2018: “Today, the House of Representatives today took a critical step in paving the way to achieve major tax reform. Although the Senate stripped key provisions from the 2018 budget the House previously passed, they kept in much of the overall framework to cut taxes for millions of hardworking Americans. “While I am extremely disappointed with the Senate removing conservative provisions that required Congress to ensure that tax reform does not add to the deficit, reduce mandatory spending by at least $203 billion, and repeal Obama Care, I voted to move forward with this budget because Americans are counting on us reduce their taxes and simplify the tax-filing process. “I believe that our best days are ahead of us and, by allowing Americans to keep more of their hard earned dollars, they will, in-turn, boost America’s economy. A strong and growing economy, coupled with serious government reforms that restore freedom and reduce the burden on America’s businesses, may once again resurrect the American dream for our children and grandchildren.” The FY18 Budget, H.Con.Res.71: Contains up to $640 billion in defense discretionary spending A significant increase to give our military the equipment and training they need to do their jobs effectively Achieves $5.1 trillion in spending cuts over 10 years and produces a $79 billion surplus by Fiscal Year 2026 Calls for increased accountability at the VA to ensure our veterans get the care they deserve Promotes job creation Provides for lowering tax rates on individuals and small businesses in future legislation See the House GOP plan for tax relief HERE Helps reform and improve the sustainability of Medicare and Medicaid to preserve these programs for future generations Delivers significant resources for border security Balances in 10 years, and puts our country on track to pay down our current $20 trillion debt “I have also introduced a Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution that would require a balanced budget in the 10th fiscal year after ratification. My plan would fit within the time line of the FY18 budget.” Learn more about Rep. Loudermilk’s Balanced Budget Amendment HERE.
10.12.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today in response to the passage of S. 585, legislation that expands whistleblower protections: “Federal employees should not fear losing their jobs as a result of exposing waste, fraud, and/or abuse in the government. S. 585 increases whistleblower protections and disciplines supervisors who retaliate against whistleblowers. Problems at the Veteran’s Administration exemplify the necessity of this legislation across the federal government. “While this is a good step in addressing these issues in the federal government, holding managers accountable is only one part of a greater problem. More action is needed to make sure federal employees are held accountable for adverse actions as well. That is why I introduced the MERIT Act, H.R. 559, to address the broken civil service employee dismissal process as a whole. I am pleased to see this progress, and I look forward to seeing more federal workers keep their jobs based on merit.” The Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017, S. 585, strengthens whistleblower protections for federal employees by: Enhancing protections for employees who come forward as whistleblowers Ensuring federal employees have better training so they know and understand whistleblower protections Setting minimum disciplinary standards across all federal agencies to hold managers accountable who retaliate against whistleblowers Requiring the VA to have a plan to restrict unauthorized employee access to medical files so they can’t be used as a means of retaliation To read the full text of S. 585, click HERE
10.04.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement in support of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act: “Brianne and Kyle George of Georgia were expecting their first child in 2012. At 16 weeks, Brianne’s water broke. She was told there was no chance of her child's survival, and it was suggested that she abort. Devastated, she and Kyle went home to allow the process to happen naturally but, instead, something miraculous happened; their son was a fighter. Despite Brianne’s amniotic fluid levels reaching dangerously low levels, Grayson Thomas George was born a few weeks later weighing just over 3 pounds. If Brianne and Kyle had decided to abort, their healthy, now 5-year-old son would not be running and playing today. “At twenty weeks, unborn babies are capable of feeling pain, they respond to stimuli, and they can live outside the womb. We have a responsibility to protect human life. Late term abortions are violent and gruesome. All Americans, including children, deserve their rights given by God: Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Our founders wrote that government is to secure these rights and, the House took a major step in protecting these rights for the most vulnerable among us, our children.” The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, HR 36: · Restricts abortion 20 weeks after fertilization. · Establishes criminal penalties for anyone who performs, or attempts to perform, late term abortions. · Includes exemptions to save the life of the mother and in cases of rape or incest. · Provides protections for and empowers women. · Requires informed consent.
09.17.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement in regard to the tax reform framework released earlier today: “Hardworking Americans have way too much taken from their paychecks by the government, and it is time to give the people a pay raise by letting them keep more of what they earn. Today, we released a framework for tax reform to cut taxes for all Americans, promote job growth, and build a stronger economy. We need to prioritize the American people and remove the barriers that keep them from achieving their dreams. “Our plan will put more money in the pockets of Americans by eliminating taxes for families earning $24 thousand per year or less, reducing the tax rate for other wage earners, including small businesses, and simplifying the tax system. “Due to the slow growth of the economy and the high cost of operating a business in our nation, many businesses have not been able to give their employees pay raises to keep up with rising costs. The plan we unveiled today will reduce the tax burden on small businesses, giving them the extra revenue they need to take care of their employees and to grow their business. “I am looking forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress to ensure passage of this historic legislation before the end of this year.” The Tax Reform Framework: • Lowers rates for individuals and families • Doubles the standard deduction • Simplifies the code by eliminating numerous complex tax provisions • Reduces the number of individual tax brackets from 7 to 3 • Eliminates loopholes for the wealthy • Repeals the Death Tax and Alternate Minimum Tax (AMT) • Makes America competitive internationally • Creates a new lower rate for small and family-owned businesses We still want to hear from the American people about what is important to you and what you think of the plan. This is an ongoing process that is still open to ideas and solutions. Check out the plan and share your thoughts HERE ###
09.15.2017	Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement after the House passed the FY 2018 Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, a comprehensive appropriations package: “For over 20 years, Congress has kicked the can down the road and failed to pass a complete appropriations package on time for the upcoming fiscal year. This year, we are on track to get this done. This accomplishment will be a testament of our commitment to restoring Constitutional principles to the House of Representatives. For too long, Congress has abdicated its power of the purse and we are now taking a huge step toward putting our fiscal house in order. The appropriations process is key to reining-in reckless government spending, and HR 3354 contains some of the greatest conservative victories in the 21st century.' “The Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act strengthens our military, increases border security, addresses the opioid crisis, and invests in our infrastructure. It cuts the IRS by $149 million, slashes the EPA’s budget by $534 million, peels back burdensome regulations, increases funding for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and protects the 2nd Amendment. HR 3354 also includes major pro-life provisions with no Planned Parenthood funding. We still have work to do, but this legislation shows our commitment to putting America first, and restoring a nation that is free, safe, and full of opportunity for its citizens." Major conservative victories in the FY2018 Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act include: • $413.3 billion in discretionary spending with a focus on border security, infrastructure, law enforcement, and national disaster preparedness and response • Reduced regulatory burdens and rules on American businesses • A smaller federal workforce through improving efficiencies across all government agencies • Increased funding for border and national security • No new funding for ACA • Pro-life provisions with no funding for Planned Parenthood • Second Amendment protections To read the summary of the FY 2018 Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, click HERE.
09.15.2017	Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement in regards to the recent data breach at Equifax: "The data breach at Equifax has placed an unimaginable number of Americans’ personal information at serious risk. Not only must Equifax be held accountable for the breach of their systems, they must also be held accountable for their failure to notify the public of the breach in a timely manner. Businesses such as Equifax that obtain and store massive amounts of information on individuals must be held to the highest data protection standards. I will be working with the Financial Services Committee on investigating this data breach and the inadequate response of Equifax executives. Furthermore, we have already begun working on legislation mandating businesses to notify consumers affected by data breaches in a timely manner. "Unfortunately, the outrage that followed the announcement by Equifax caused a gross mischaracterization of a bill that I have been working on since early this year. It was falsely reported that this bill (H.R. 2359) was introduced to give immunity to Equifax from any liability over this data breach. This couldn't be further from the truth. The FCRA Liability Harmonization Act (H.R. 2359) was introduced back in May, and is aimed at curbing frivolous class action lawsuits against businesses under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). The businesses affected by FCRA lawsuits include community banks, credit unions, auto dealerships, retailers, and many other small businesses that extend credit to consumers. "Reports that this bill would grant any immunity to Equifax for liability in this data breach are completely false. The bill does not give any immunity from prosecution or civil lawsuits for wrongdoing to any business. Furthermore, data breaches are governed by state laws, not the FCRA, so this bill would not apply to Equifax in this case at all with respect to the 143 million people whose personally identifiable information was compromised. "Finally, given the unfounded attacks on me and the rampant misinformation circulating about this legislation, the Financial Services Committee has not scheduled further action on any bill at this time." H.R. 2359
09.12.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) and his wife are recovering after a car accident in Knoxville, TN. Early Tuesday morning, Congressman Loudermilk and his wife were involved in a two car accident near Knoxville, TN. After coming home to Georgia to assist with Irma response, and the storm having cleared the area, Congressman Loudermilk and his wife were en route back to Washington D.C. They were traveling East on I-40 when their vehicle was struck from behind by a second vehicle, causing their vehicle to leave the road and flip multiple times, coming to rest on the passenger side. Both the Congressman and Mrs. Loudermilk were transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries where they were treated and released. They have been instructed to return to Georgia for follow-up treatment. The Loudermilks immediately acknowledged God’s hand in protecting them from serious injury, and they would appreciate your thoughts and prayers as they recover.
09.08.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) urges all Georgians to be prepared and aware of instructions from federal, state, and local officials as Hurricane Irma approaches: “Minutes ago, I participated on a conference call with officials from FEMA and other national and state organizations. Hurricane Irma poses a grave threat to Florida, Georgia, and many places on the East Coast. If you live in a mandatory evacuation zone, follow officials’ advice and leave. The current evacuation area for Coastal Georgia can be found HERE. The Georgia Emergency Management & Homeland Security Agency has opened shelters for evacuees. You can find an up to date list of shelters HERE. “Governor Deal has expanded the state of emergency to 94 counties. You can find an up to date map HERE. According to federal officials, the current projections show possible flash flooding and high winds for North Georgia, including the 11th Congressional District. Find the latest forecasts for your area from the National Weather Service HERE. “As I said yesterday: As we have seen with Hurricane Harvey and now with Hurricane Irma, planning before an event happens has never been more important. Our office has reached out to our local Emergency Management Agencies, and they all shared the same message: be alert and be prepared. While Hurricane Irma’s path is not certain, we must prepare as circumstances change quickly. Pay attention and heed the warnings of the officials. “Make sure to fill up your gas tank and have food and water on hand. Traffic will increase as evacuees from coastal Georgia and Florida move inland. Our thoughts and prayers are with those impacted, and the military personnel and first responders working to keep everyone safe. You can find more information on how to prepare for and respond to a hurricane here: http://ready.ga.gov/be-informed/hurricanes/ or download the Ready Georgia mobile app. Monitor local news radio and television for up to date information. And, as always, we are here to help you." ***If you have relatives traveling in the paths of Irma or Jose, make sure the State Dept knows where they are. Click on the “Alert Us” button on the link below and enter information about your loved one. It could save their life!*** Other Federal, State, and Local Resources for Storm Updates National Weather Service Atlanta on Twitter- @NWSAtlanta Georgia Emergency Management & Homeland Security Agency -http://www.gema.ga.gov/ Georgia EM&HS on Twitter- @GeorgiaEMA Cherokee County Emergency Management Facebook- https://www.facebook.com/CherokeeEMA/ Atlanta Fulton Emergency Management on Twitter- @AFCEMA Disaster Relief Organizations The American Red Cross- http://www.redcross.org/ Georgia Baptist Disaster Relief- https://missiongeorgia.org/georgia-disaster-relief/ The Salvation Army- https://disaster.salvationarmyusa.org/ Samaritan’s Purse- https://www.samaritanspurse.org/
09.07.2017	Rep. Loudermilk urges all Georgians to be prepared and aware of instructions from federal, state, and local officials as Hurricane Irma approaches: “September is National Preparedness Month. As we have seen with Hurricane Harvey and now with Hurricane Irma, planning before an event happens has never been more important. Our office has reached out to our local Emergency Management Agencies, and they all shared the same message: be alert and be prepared. While Hurricane Irma’s path is not certain, we must prepare as circumstances change quickly. Pay attention and heed the warnings of the officials. “Governor Deal has declared a state of emergency for Georgia's coastal counties and he will be holding a press conference at 10:00 am tomorrow, 9/8/17, to discuss Georgia’s response to Hurricane Irma. You can watch live HERE. “Make sure to fill up your gas tank and have food and water on hand. Traffic will increase as evacuees from coastal Georgia and Florida move inland. Our thoughts and prayers are with those impacted, and the military personnel and first responders working to keep everyone safe. You can find more information on how to prepare for and respond to a hurricane here: http://ready.ga.gov/be-informed/hurricanes/ or download the Ready Georgia mobile app. Monitor local news radio and television for up to date information. And, as always, we are here to help you." Other Federal, State, and Local Resources for Storm Updates National Weather Service Atlanta on Twitter- @NWSAtlanta Georgia Emergency Management & Homeland Security Agency-http://www.gema.ga.gov/ Georgia EM&HS on Twitter- @GeorgiaEMA Cherokee County Emergency Management Facebook- https://www.facebook.com/CherokeeEMA/ Atlanta Fulton Emergency Management on Twitter- @AFCEMA Disaster Relief Organizations The American Red Cross- http://www.redcross.org/ Georgia Baptist Disaster Relief- https://missiongeorgia.org/georgia-disaster-relief/ The Salvation Army- https://disaster.salvationarmyusa.org/ Samaritan’s Purse- https://www.samaritanspurse.org/
09.05.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement regarding the Trump Administration's announcement to phase out the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “Congress must secure our borders, overhaul the convoluted immigration system, and effectively enforce the laws. Tweaks by Congress, and executive orders by various administrations, have created an immigration policy that favors illegal immigration and punishes those who want to legally come here to work. President Barack Obama's executive order was outside the constitutional authority of the executive branch, and I agree with President Trump's decision to reverse the order and call on Congress to fundamentally reform our immigration policy."
08.11.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after introducing bipartisan legislation to modernize the Securities Exchange Act: “Regulatory agencies have a tendency to expand their reach into areas they should not be regulating and engage in mission creep, which can stifle innovation. As a small business owner, we embraced new technology and used it to benefit our customers. Instead of trying to make new ideas fit into old, one-size-fits-all regulations, agencies should adjust to allow business and individuals the opportunity to grow. In order to update the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, I introduced H.R. 3555, the Exchange Regulatory Improvement Act. Georgia companies face compliance burdens on parts of their businesses that should not be regulated as exchanges, and this bill will put guardrails on the agencies to prevent overregulation. We need a new, fresh approach, and this bipartisan legislation will go a long way in bringing a 1930s law into the 21st century.” Background H.R. 3555, the Exchange Regulatory Improvement Act, proposes to update the definition of a “facility” of a stock exchange under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to account for new business models that have been developed by stock exchanges in the years since the law was written. Various stock exchanges have recently established subsidiaries involving data management services, regulatory compliance technology, and others. The bill clarifies that a facility of an exchange does not include businesses that are not “for the purpose of effecting or reporting a transaction on an exchange” for regulatory purposes. This bill will ensure that business activities that are unrelated to effecting or reporting a transaction on an exchange are not subject to regulation as an exchange. However, the bill will not exempt functions of exchanges that are material to securities trading from Securities and Exchange Commission supervision, such as market data, listing standards, and colocation. Original co-sponsors of this legislation are Rep. David Scott (D-GA), Rep. Randy Hultgren (R-IL), Rep. Greg Meeks (D-NY), and Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY.) More information HERE
07.28.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement on the effort to repeal and replace Obamacare: "Defeat is only ensured to those who surrender. The disappointing vote in the Senate is only a failure if we quit. And I will not! The most epic moments in our history are marked by Americans who, in the face of impending defeat, kept their eyes on their cause, not their circumstances. George Washington lost more battles than he won - but we ultimately won the war. The Alamo fell - but Texas won their independence. The US Navy was devastated at Pearl Harbor - but three years later, the Japanese surrendered. "Now is not the time to raise the white flag. It's time to keep pressing on until we fix America's failing health care system, because Americans deserve better than the disaster they have now."
07.28.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting for the Make America Secure Appropriations Act to fund our military and secure our borders: “The predominant responsibility of the federal government is our national defense; however, the drastic cuts made to our armed forces over the past several years has severely impacted the readiness of the men and women in uniform, and their equipment. The Make America Secure Appropriations Act restores critical funding to our military and gives a well-deserved pay raise to our troops. The bill also includes funding to secure our southern border and resources to implement major reforms to the Veterans Administration to improve services for our veterans.” Background This bill combines four appropriations bills for fiscal year 2018, and an amendment to fully fund the border wall: H.R. 3219- Department of Defense Appropriations $68.1 billion above the FY17 enacted level to continue rebuilding our military Supports the National Defense Authorization Act’s requests to rebuild our military, pay our troops, and restore readiness Gives our troops a 2.4% pay raise H.R. 3162- Legislative Branch Appropriations Maintains pay freeze for members of Congress Capitol Police funding is increased by $29.2 million H.R. 2998- Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Includes a total of $88.8 billion, which is $6 billion above the FY17 enacted level Provides funds for housing, education facilities, and medical facilities for our military and funds the Guard, Reserve, and the NATO Security Investment Program (NSIP), VA Medical care Provides funding for digital scanning for disability claims Keeps Guantanamo open and prohibits funding for transferring detainees H.R.3266- Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Provides $13.9 billion (an increase of $976 million) for DOE’s nuclear weapons security programs Includes language to block enforcement of the abusive Waters of the U.S. Rule, and re-asserts private property rights for members of our agricultural community by reigning back the regulatory overreach of the Clean Water Act Border Security/Wall Funding Funds the President’s request of $1.57 billion to build a wall on the southern U.S. border More information HERE
07.27.2017	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after testifying at a House Judiciary Committee hearing on his balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution: “Our children and grandchildren do not deserve the burden of debt we are passing on to them. The problem is too great to sit idly by and let the government mortgage our nation’s future by spending money we do not have. It is not too late to stop the bleeding, but we must act now. Today, I spoke before the House Judiciary Committee on my balanced budget amendment; we are one step closer to ending the spending crisis in a responsible way. “Many states, including Georgia, operate under a balanced budget, and do not spend more than they take in. This responsible approach to budgeting should be mandatory at the federal level as well, especially as our national debt continues to climb toward $20 trillion. That is why I, and other conservatives, have joined together in proposing a much-needed balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution. This ten-year plan gives Congress the time it needs to get its financial house in order and come up with long-term solutions to tackling our out-of-control spending. The time to turn the page on Congress’ reckless spending is now – not later, when our grandchildren are handed the bill.” Click HERE to watch the full testimony. Background: The proposed balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution, H.J. Res 29, would take effect in the 10th fiscal year after its ratification. In addition to the balanced budget provision, this amendment requires a two-thirds vote in each chamber of Congress to increase the deficit or raise federal spending levels beyond 18 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) for the previous calendar year. For more information on H.J.Res. 29, click here.
07.17.2017	Congressman Loudermilk will be hosting a telephone town hall meeting on Tuesday, July 25, 2017, at 7:00 p.m. Telephone town halls are a great opportunity to discuss the issues that matter most to you - the constituents of Georgia’s 11th District. During the meeting, callers will hear a brief congressional update and be given the opportunity to ask questions. We’re looking forward to hearing from many of you. We have a lot to share about all of the positive things we're doing in Washington D.C. SAVE THE DATE! WHAT: Telephone Town Hall WHEN: Tuesday, July 25, 2017 7:00 p.m. EST HOW TO PARTICIPATE: Constituents can sign-up to participate by clicking on the registration link HERE.
07.14.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting for legislation to support our military and their families: “My wife and I raised three young children while I served in the Air Force; I know what a challenge it is to provide for a family on military pay. We could never pay our service members enough for the sacrifice they make, but the pay raise in this bill is a step in the right direction. Our military has been overlooked for far too long. Military equipment has been in disrepair due to under-funding, and military families have been struggling to cope with the rising cost of living. Our service members deserve better." “The National Defense Authorization Act provides a much-deserved pay raise for service members, cuts needless red tape and regulations, and goes a long way toward restoring funding for America’s Armed Forces. I was proud to cast my vote in favor of our service men and women.” Background • For more than half a century, the National Defense Authorization Act has been fundamental to Congress’ constitutional obligation to “provide for the common defense.” • H.R.2810 - National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 continues this obligation to our service members. • Our nation’s military has been severely underfunded, due to years of budget cuts that have reduced our military budget by nearly a quarter. • FY18’s NDAA continues its reform of the Department of Defense. • This legislation provides the men and women serving in our military around the world and at home much needed resources to be successful. • Establishes a pay raise (2.4%) for our troops, which they are entitled to by law, and protects that annual raise from being cut by this or future administrations. • Prohibits the closing of several veteran medical treatment facilities outside of the U.S. • Supports and strengthens current efforts to eliminate the Islamic state from Iraq and Syria. • Re-establishes our military’s readiness and global proficiency. • Provides for missile defense to protect our homeland from foreign nuclear threats. • Modernizes and builds our naval and air forces to respond to new and emerging threats, like N. Korea and Iran. • Reforms the DOD procurement system and implements an audit of the DOD. More information HERE ####
07.12.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting legislation to help end human trafficking and modern day slavery: “Human trafficking and modern day slavery are not problems in some distant country - they are here, and they are now. Just last year, 256 human trafficking cases were reported to the National Human Trafficking Resource Center in Georgia. The reason I serve in Congress is simple: my children and grandchildren deserve better than the America we are passing on to them. Georgia leads the nation in many areas - but human trafficking should not be one of them. I want to see a day where human trafficking is a relic of the past, and these bills take us closer to that goal.” Background Today, the House passed three bipartisan bills to fight human trafficking and modern day slavery: Named after renowned abolitionist, Frederick Douglass, H.R.2200, the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Act, reauthorizes funding at current levels for the Departments of Justice, Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, Labor, and State, and the U.S. Agency for International Development, for anti-human trafficking efforts. H.R. 2664, The Enhancing Detection of Human Trafficking Act, makes certain the Department of Labor trains its employees to identify and respond to the illegal trade of people. H.R.2480, The Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act, expands eligibility for the Department of Justice’s Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grants Program (Byrne JAG) to local law enforcement agencies to fight sex trafficking. More information HERE Impact in Georgia: In 2016, Georgia was sixth in the nation for reported human trafficking cases reported, according to the National Human Trafficking Resource Center (NHTRC). Reported cases increased more than 25% from 2015 to 2016, according to NHTRC. In 207 of the reported cases, the victims were female and 77 were minors, according to NHTRC. More information HERE ####
06.29.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting legislation that clamps down on sanctuary cities: “Just as American citizens are not allowed to choose which laws to obey or to ignore, neither should our local government officials. This legislation is a big step towards ensuring that those who are here illegally are not given sanctuary from justice.” Background The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, H.R. 3003, strengthens the law to combat dangerous sanctuary policies that shield unlawful or criminal immigrants from federal immigration enforcement. Specifically, the bill clarifies U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainer authority – the tool used by federal immigration enforcement officers to pick up criminal aliens from local jails, establishing statutory probable cause standards to issue detainers for the first time. It withholds certain federal grants from jurisdictions that violate federal law by prohibiting their officers from communicating with ICE.
06.28.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) has written a letter to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) expressing serious concerns about the bureau’s mass collection of sensitive, personally identifiable information on American citizens. He issued the following statement: “In the wake of many serious data breaches, including the OPM and the FDIC, we have learned the greatest risk of compromising Americans' personal information is the federal agencies. I am seriously concerned to learn that the CFPB has been collecting massive amounts of data on more than ten million consumers on a regular basis. At a time when many agencies are targets of foreign and domestic hackers, it is very troubling to learn that the CFPB has started yet another data collection program, which can include people’s social media posts, utility payments, and other private information. The very agency that claims to protect consumers is actually putting millions at risk by collecting sensitive data that would result in significant harm to consumers if compromised. “This is something that must be addressed immediately, which is why I took action. I sent a letter, along with many of my colleagues, urging the CFPB to stop collecting sensitive consumer data until all relevant cybersecurity improvements have been implemented.” Click HERE to view letter
06.27.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting legislation that lifts American families out of poverty and into the workforce: “When the federal government declared an 'unconditional war on poverty' in 1964, about 14.5 percent of Americans were considered poor. Today, 53 years and $22 trillion dollars later, there are more Americans listed as living in poverty than there were then. Clearly, what the federal government has been doing isn’t working. Instead of lifting people up, our welfare programs actually hold them down. It’s beyond time to reform these systems and give struggling Americans a chance to succeed.” Background Accelerating Individuals into the Workforce Act, H.R. 2842, empowers states to develop programs that place low-income individuals into the workforce. This will help struggling Americans gain on-the-job skills to ensure that they get a hand-up from TANF (Temporary Assistance for Needy Families).
06.22.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting legislation that will protect our nation’s forests and citizens: “Government bureaucrats are good at trying to fix problems that don’t exist, often creating even bigger problems. When those problems arise, they promptly cast blame on someone else. Federal land management agencies have been prohibiting utility companies from inspecting and maintaining electrical lines that run through federal lands. Keeping utility companies from maintaining the trees and foliage along the power lines has contributed to many forest fires, as trees fall across active lines. Of course, the agencies blame the utility companies for the damage. This legislation will replace bureaucratic red-tape with common-sense policies that will allow utility companies access to maintain their lines, protecting our lands and citizens.” Background The Electricity Reliability and Forest Protection Act, H.R. 1873, allows for an expedited process to approve utility companies’ line management plans, promotes efficiency between federal agencies, reduces the likelihood of wildfires and power outages, and lowers utility and rate costs for the American people.
06.19.2017	In a letter to U.S. Secretary of Defense James Mattis, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) is leading the effort to renew critical investments in the C130J “Super Hercules” program. Manufactured in Marietta, Georgia, the C-130 is the longest continuously running military production line in history. “Strengthening our investment in the C-130J production line has critical implications for Georgia’s 11th district," said Rep. Loudermilk. "This program contributes needed support and resources to our military and provides 32,000 jobs for individuals across 41 states. I am committed to reinforcing investments into this program in the interest of our military and the 11th congressional district.” The letter, which calls on Secretary Mattis to pursue a Multi-Year Procurement (MYP-III) program as part of President Trump’s FY19 budget proposal, received bipartisan support and is co-signed by 12 members of the Georgia delegation. Background: The current C-130J MYP-II (FY14-18) has resulted in Department of Defense savings greater than 10 percent per aircraft and greater than $600 million over 80+ C-130J aircraft. Yet, last year’s sequestration-constrained budget plans for FY19-23 project drastic cuts in annual C-130J purchases, threatening the future of the only remaining active US airlifter production line. The C-130J is the most capable tactical airlifter in the world. C-130J production is currently at a healthy rate of 24 aircraft per year (including 16 Department of Defense aircraft per year.) However, last year’s forecasts suggest future DOD procurement for FY19+ would drop to approximately 7-8 aircraft per year. Full text of the letter can be found HERE.
06.16.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting for the VETERAN Act, which gives veterans the option to use tax credits to purchase private health insurance: “Our veterans have sacrificed a great deal for us and, in return, we should keep our promises to them. That includes providing quality health care options. If the VA is not meeting their needs, then they should be able to have health care choices that do. Common sense, market-based approaches to health care work best for everyone. By giving our veterans the best access to quality care, they can get the care they deserve.” Background The VETERAN Act, H.R. 2372, codifies a regulation into law that gives veterans the option to use tax credits, if they’re eligible for VA health care, to purchase insurance on the individual marketplace.
06.14.2017	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after returning from the congressional baseball practice where he was when the shooting took place: “Today’s attack was a senseless act of evil and hatred. I was there this morning, along with my Chief of Staff and, thankfully, he and I are okay. If it hadn’t been for the two Capitol Police officers there, courageously protecting us and returning fire, I don’t know how many of us would still be here. Many of my good friends were injured today. Please pray for those who were shot, and their families. There were a lot of heroes out there today, and I’m thankful for God’s provision and protection.”
06.13.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today on the passage of legislation that will improve the standard of care for America’s veterans: "Our veterans deserve to receive the care they were promised when they signed up to serve our nation. The Veterans Administration, for too long, has been wrought with corruption, scandal, and ineffectiveness. At the core of the problem is federal law that prioritizes protecting the jobs of bad employees over ensuring quality care for veterans. "The legislation we passed today goes a long way to reform the VA and end the era of mismanagement and abuse. These reforms will give managers the tools they need to remove employees who mistreat veterans, abuse their position, or are nonperforming in their duties." Background: The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017, S.1094, makes it easier for the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to remove, suspend, or discipline employees for misconduct or poor performance. Under this act, whistleblowers will also have the protection they need to sound the alarm without fear of agency retaliation.
06.08.2017	Rep. Loudermilk will accompany Vice President Mike Pence on Air Force Two on Friday, June 9, 2017, to recognize local military personnel and their families at Dobbins Air Reserve Base. “Dobbins Air Reserve Base is the world’s foremost multi-service reserve training base,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Dobbins provides crucial training and support for army, marine, navy, and air force reservists and has a significant economic impact on Georgia’s 11th District. I am honored to join Vice President Mike Pence in recognizing our local military personnel and their families at the base tomorrow.” WHAT: Dobbins Air Reserve Base Visit WHEN: Friday, June 9, 2017 11:00 a.m. EST WHERE: Dobbins Air Reserve Base Hanger 5 Media Arrival: Dobbins ARB Visitor Center (Across the street from:1291 Cobb Parkway South) Marietta, GA 30060 MEDIA SCHEDULE: *All time is local, EDT 6:00 a.m. Media with satellite trucks must arrive at the Dobbins ARB Main Gate Visitor Center. Before approaching the gate guards, turn right into the Visitor Center parking lot. • Media will be escorted to the event venue by Dobbins Public Affairs staff. • Must provide a driver’s license, current registration and insurance for your vehicle. If you have any questions prior to the event, please contact the 94th Airlift Wing Public Affairs office at 678-655-5055. 8:30–9:30 a.m. All media with handheld cameras/laptops and re-entrance (not satellite trucks) must arrive at Dobbins ARB Main Gate Visitor Center to be shuttled to the site. 11:00 a.m. Air Force 2 arrival 11:25 a.m. Vice President gives remarks 11:40 a.m. Vice President concludes remarks Additional Information: • Parking for press (not satellite trucks) is located at Dobbins Visitor Center • Camera crews may cover AF2 arrival or the Vice President’s remarks. If networks plan to cover both, they must send two separate cameras and crews. Arrival and sweep times apply to all coverage. • A press riser, camera-quality lighting and a mult will be provided. • 165 feet of cable needed from satellite trucks to press riser Coordinate information: Dobbins Air Reserve Base, Hanger 5 33.9157N and -84.5366W Camera throw for remarks: *85 feet* All press must RSVP to pressrsvp@ovp.eop.gov by 6:00 a.m. on Friday, June 9, to request media credentials. When requesting credentials, the following information must be provided: Full Name: Network Affiliation: Position: Cell Phone Number: Email: Requesting to cover (AF2 Arrival or Remarks): For any additional questions about the visit, please contact Tyler Teresa at 202-881-7087. Please note: Logistical information provided by the Office of the Vice President.
06.08.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting in support of the Financial CHOICE Act, which passed the House of Representatives: “The Dodd-Frank Act was passed in the shadows of the most devastating economic recession in our lifetime. After Congress forced taxpayers to bail out big banks at a cost of over one trillion in taxpayer dollars, the same Congress passed Dodd-Frank under the guise of ending ‘too big to fail’ and protecting consumers. However, the results of Dodd-Frank have been the exact opposite, as big banks are bigger and small banks are fewer. In addition, formation of new local community banks, relied upon by thousands of small businesses, is virtually nonexistent. “The CHOICE Act repeals the portions of Dodd-Frank that protect Wall Street while alienating the small guy on Main Street. This legislation provides opportunities for all and bailouts for none. Small business owners and consumers in my district, and around the country, have suffered long enough from the overbearing government bureaucracy of Dodd-Frank. “The Financial CHOICE Act pushes government out of the way by bringing fresh, new ideas that foster economic growth and create new and better jobs. It brings health back to our economy and gives choices back to consumers. Americans deserve the opportunity to pursue a bright, promising future with financial freedom.” Background The Financial CHOICE Act, H.R. 10, protects consumers and helps grow the U.S. economy by requiring accountability from both Washington and Wall Street. It replaces the Dodd-Frank Act, ending 'too big to fail,' removing excessive financial regulations, and removing obstacles to credit and capital. Watch Rep. Loudermilk's floor speech on the Financial CHOICE Act
06.01.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement on President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement: “Regardless of how good something may be, government officials are bound by the Constitution, and policies that place restrictions on Americans cannot be unilaterally imposed by one branch of government. The Paris Agreement essentially functions as a treaty, and should have been brought to the Senate for open discussion and consideration. Instead, our former president unilaterally made the decision without lawmakers’ input or support. "The damaging ramifications of this deal weren’t properly evaluated, and now it’s taking away jobs from hardworking Americans. A free economy is the best way to work towards promoting job creation and economic prosperity, along with stewarding our God-given resources and environment. President Trump is making the right decision withdrawing from the Paris Agreement on climate change, and I fully support his decision.”
05.26.2017	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today announced 11 students from Georgia’s 11th Congressional District received appointments to attend a United States service academy. “Congratulations to the 2017 service academy appointees from Georgia’s 11th District,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “America is in good hands with these young leaders, and I am confident they will represent our state and district well.” Each year, members of congress are tasked with nominating students for admission to one of the nation’s prestigious service academies. Appointees are awarded a full four-year scholarship, which includes tuition, housing, and books. The 2017 appointments from the 11th Congressional District are as follows: United States Naval Academy Jackson B. Ferguson, Atlanta, North Atlanta High School Christopher T. Kalafut, Acworth, Harrison High School Joshua J. Torres, Woodstock, Fellowship Christian High School William A. Goldman, Atlanta, The Galloway School United States Military Academy – West Point Benjamin M. Davis, Acworth, Harrison High School Sophia Suri, Kennesaw, Kennesaw Mountain High School Andrew Q. Whittle, Canton, Sequoyah High School United States Air Force Academy Zachary A. Flash, Atlanta, North Atlanta High School Lauren C. Miller, Marietta, Harrison High School Jacob E. Walker, Cartersville, Darlington School Mark A. Watson, Acworth, North Cobb Christian School Additional information about the military academy nomination process and how to apply is available online at Loudermilk.house.gov.
05.25.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) and Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA) partnered on a bill to reverse an Obama-era EPA rule that incorrectly defines truck trailers as self-propelled vehicles. The Truck, Trailer, and Transport Efficiency Act (T3E) changes the regulation issued by the EPA, in partnership with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which illegally extended the EPA’s legislative authority by defining truck trailers as motor vehicles. “Anyone with any common sense can tell you that a truck trailer is not a ‘self-propelled vehicle,’ said Rep. Loudermilk. “If it doesn’t have an engine, exhaust pipes, or the ability to move on its own, it doesn’t make the cut. The EPA, under the previous administration, expanded its regulatory reach beyond the limits set by Congress by issuing this rule and now it’s our responsibility to undo it. This senseless measure has actually harmed the environment by forcing more trucks onto the road - to carry the same amount of goods – causing even more fuel to be burned and more emissions polluting the air. My good friend, Rep. Morgan Griffith, has been instrumental in the creation of this legislation, and I’m grateful for his leadership as we’ve partnered together in this effort.” “The EPA’s rule, finalized under the last Administration, is illegal, illogical, ineffective, and expensive,” said Rep. Griffith. “This legislation will correct an improper interpretation of the Clean Air Act by the Obama Administration’s EPA. The bill requires the EPA to revise the rule that pertains to self-propelled larger vehicles to properly reflect the plain meaning of the Clean Air Act. By doing this, we support thousands of jobs nationwide, including many in my district.”
05.18.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting to ensure criminals face severe penalties for harming or murdering police officers, firefighters, or first responders: “Our law enforcement officers bravely face many threats to protect the safety of citizens and, especially more recently, police and other first responders have become targets. Criminals who target law enforcement officers deserve the severest of consequences. This legislation sends a clear message to our law enforcement communities that we’re on their side and we respect their sacrifice." Background The Thin Blue Line Act, H.R. 115, would amend the federal criminal code to make the murder or attempted murder of a police officer, firefighter, or other first responder an “aggravating” factor in death penalty determinations.
05.15.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) recently visited with students at Grace Academy in Cartersville to talk about America's rich heritage. “I’m inspired by the resurgence of young people who are passionate about preserving America’s heritage and God-given rights,” said Rep. Loudermilk. "The pioneering spirit that led to American exceptionalism is alive and well, and I’m confident these students will help keep America great in the coming decades." During his visit, Rep. Loudermilk shared stories about life as a U.S. Congressman, including his ongoing efforts to craft public policy with the presidential administration and fellow members of Congress. He also told students about his surprise encounter with President Barack Obama in the batter’s box at the Congressional Baseball Game for Charity, and the unique responsibility of working among the branches of government that make up America’s Constitutional Republic. After answering students' questions, Rep. Loudermilk encouraged them to remember America’s journey from tyranny to freedom, and the Constitutional principles that have become a model of self-governance for the world. “It was an honor to have Congressman Loudermilk at Grace Academy. Not only did he help our students realize the importance of God in founding our country, but he also showed them that God is still important in our government today. By speaking to our students, Congressman Loudermilk showed them that they were important and that they could make a positive impact in our country,” said Grace Academy Pastor and Administrator Richard Webster. Located in Cartersville, Grace Academy provides a Christ-centered education to students from kindergarten through twelfth grade.
05.08.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) introduced legislation to curb abuses in the court system and bring consistency to our nation’s consumer financial protection laws. He issued the following statement: “As a small business owner for over twenty years, I was fortunate enough to never face a lawsuit. However, some of my customers and suppliers were often tangled in litigation from frivolous claims that cost them a significant amount of time and money. I have seen how a small technical error, turned into a lawsuit, can affect everyone in a business, including employees, customers, and vendors. Unfortunately, suits under the Fair Credit Reporting Act have skyrocketed in recent years while leaving consumers inappropriately compensated. “When employers have to spend their time and effort defending themselves from frivolous lawsuits, job creation remains sluggish and Americans’ paychecks become stagnant. This is unacceptable after the lackluster growth of the last eight years. My bill protects both consumers and businesses by bringing liability under the Fair Credit Reporting Act in line with other consumer financial protection laws. This bill protects the right of consumers to pursue statutory damages and the right to just compensation for actual harm while establishing caps on class action suits.” Background The FCRA Liability Harmonization Act, H.R. 2359, will cap class action damages and eliminate punitive damages to align the Fair Credit Reporting Act with numerous other consumer protection laws already in place (i.e.: Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and the Electronic Funds Transfer Act) without impacting any actual damages or relief that may be obtained by consumers. Groups in support of this legislation: U.S. Chamber Institute for Legal Reform, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, American Bankers Association, Consumer Bankers Association, Financial Services Roundtable, Credit Union National Association, Retail Industry Leaders Association, International Franchise Association, Electronic Transactions Association, American Financial Services Association, National Association of Professional Background Screeners, Software and Information Industry Association, National Automobile Dealers Association, and Consumer Data Industry Association. Cosponsors of this legislation: Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Rep. Ted Budd (R-NC), Rep. Peter King (R-NY), and Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO).
05.04.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting to repeal and replace Obamacare to make America’s health care system patient-centered, choice-driven, and affordable: “For seven years, Americans have lived through the reality that government bureaucracy – with its massive rules and regulations – is not the answer to ensuring Americans have access to quality health care. The Affordable Care Act (ACA) promised affordable health insurance and access to health care for everyone, but the result has been the exact opposite. Ronald Reagan best described the dangers of government bureaucracy as, ‘In this present crisis, government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem.’ “Today the House of Representatives passed the American Health Care Act (AHCA), which begins the process of dismantling the bureaucratic red-tape that has forced premiums to skyrocket and made deductibles so high that many Americans found their insurance so costly it was unusable. This bill in itself doesn’t fix the entire problem, but it begins the process of fixing our broken health care system.” Background To read the American Health Care Act of 2017, H.R. 1628, click HERE. For more information, visit Rep. Loudermilk's website at Loudermilk.house.gov.
05.03.2017	The American Conservative Union Foundation (ACUF) awarded Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) with the 2016 Award for Conservative Excellence. “Promoting freedom and prosperity in our nation means voting for conservative, common sense policies that help hardworking Americans,” said. Rep. Loudermilk. “I thank ACUF for this award. It’s an honor for me to represent the fine people of Georgia’s 11th Congressional District.” "Rep Loudermilk is a thoughtful voice for our conservative values. We applaud his courage, and we are pleased to give him the 2016 Award for Conservative Excellence,” said ACUF Chairman Matt Schlapp. Additional Background: For over 46 years, the American Conservative Union Foundation (ACUF) has rated members of Congress on their commitment to conservative values. ACUF ranks 8,000 elected federal and state officeholders every year and uses the information to educate the public about where their representatives stand on the issues important to them.
05.02.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting the CHOICE Act, which opens up the economy for all Americans while stripping financial red-tape from the free market: “Sluggish economic growth, big bank bailouts, less choices, financial uncertainty – these are the results of the law known as Dodd-Frank. Dodd-Frank was passed under the guise of protecting consumers against unfair practices in the financial services industry. However, this massive growth in government has served to protect financial insiders on Wall Street while alienating the small guy on Main Street. We’ve seen big banks get bigger while small banks become fewer. But that’s not all. Taxpayer dollars are at risk of funding government bailouts, choices are limited in areas where they existed before, and new jobs aren’t being created at the pace they should be. Enough is enough. That’s why I’m supporting the Financial CHOICE Act – because it pushes government out of the way and opens up an economy that works for everyone. Packed with fresh, new ideas, this legislation fosters our economy back to health and gives choices back to consumers. Americans deserve the opportunity to pursue a bright, promising future with financial freedom.” Background The Financial CHOICE Act, H.R.10, protects consumers and grows the U.S. economy by requiring accountability from both Washington and Wall Street. It ends “too big too fail,” cuts excessive financial regulations, and removes obstacles to credit and capital. To watch the Financial CHOICE Act markup in committee, click HERE.
05.02.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting to allow the flexibility to turn overtime pay into paid time off for hardworking families: “One thing I greatly treasure is time with my family. This was especially important when my children were younger. However, when an employee would like additional time off with their family, instead of cash payment for overtime, private-sector businesses, by law, have not been allowed to offer that option. This should be a decision left to the employee and employer, not the government. That’s why I supported this voluntary program to give hardworking families the flexibility and option to spend more time with the ones they love when they put in those extra hours at work.” Background The Working Families Flexibility Act, H.R. 1180, allows private-sector employers the flexibility to offer their employees the choice of cash payment or paid time off for the overtime they work.
04.28.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting to ensure Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two government-sponsored enterprises, are subject to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA): “While hardworking Americans are paying for the full operational costs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, these government-sponsored enterprises are functioning without any oversight. Because they’re not subject to FOIA, this means the public cannot request to see any of their records or documents. Congress passed a bill this week to bring accountability and much-needed transparency to these government-sponsored enterprises.” Background The Fannie and Freddie Open Records Act, H.R. 1694, applies the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as long as they are funded with taxpayer dollars.
04.21.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after leading on a letter addressed to Senate leadership in support of Governor Sonny Perdue’s nomination for Secretary of Agriculture: “My friend, Governor Sonny Perdue, is well-qualified to serve as the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture. My colleagues in the Georgia delegation and I sent a letter to the Senate, calling for his speedy confirmation. Sonny brings a wealth of expertise, which will benefit our nation’s agriculture industry, and I look forward to working with him as part of the administration.” Click HERE to view letter.
04.06.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement after voting in favor of legislation removing bureaucratic roadblocks to entrepreneurs and startups having access to crucial capital: “Throughout modern history, America has been the leading innovator for the entire world. With freedom to pursue our dreams, combined with easy access to needed resources, Americans have turned their ideas into revolutionary products that have improved the lives of millions of people around the world. Unfortunately, America has recently fallen a bit behind as the world’s innovator, because Washington bureaucracy has effectively closed-off financial resources to those who need it the most – the entrepreneur. The world’s largest economy should be open to everyone, not just to those that can afford to navigate through the maze of Washington red-tape. “This bill cuts through red-tape and unlocks the financial resources that have been closed-off to Main Street innovators. We need to sow the seeds of prosperity in our local communities so Main Street will once again be the prevalent economic engine of America.” Background The America’s Innovators Act, H.R. 1219, increases the limit on the number of individuals, from 100 to 250, who can invest in a venture capital fund before the company would be required to register as an ‘investment company’ with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
04.06.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (GA-11) issued the following statement after President Trump ordered the U.S. to launch a missile strike against Syria in response to Assad's chemical weapons attack on the Syrian people: "I support the precise action President Trump has taken against the Assad regime in Syria. Using chemical weapons against the Syrian people, including women and children, is an evil and unconscionable act which warrants international response."
04.05.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting to get rid of red-tape holding companies back from giving employees more opportunities to own company shares: “Sharing the profits of business with employees is a proven business model that benefits both the company and its employees. However, the government has made it increasingly difficult for businesses to offer stock to their employees, piling costly reporting requirements and bureaucratic red-tape upon these employers. “This bill gives regulatory relief to many businesses, and is a perfect example of the kind of thing we can do in Congress to help rebuild a bottom-up, organic economy that made America great in the first place.” Background The Encouraging Employee Ownership Act, H.R. 1343, encourages companies to attract and retain employees by offering incentives for employees to have a stake in the company they work hard for every day.
04.03.2017	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) announced the winners of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for the 11th District at the Southern Museum of Civil War and Locomotive History in Kennesaw. Aidan Lyerly, who attends Etowah High School in Woodstock, received the grand prize for his piece entitled “Beggar.” The winning artwork, selected by an independent panel of judges, will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. Entries were submitted from 11 schools across Georgia’s 11th District. “Students from all over my district annually submit incredible artwork, and this year is no different,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “The talent these young men and women display through their art continues to inspire me and many others. Through this contest, the hard work and creativity of these students is admired and appreciated. I look forward to seeing the winning piece displayed in our nation’s Capitol.” 2017 Congressional Art Competition Results: First Place Winner Student: Aidan Lyerly Art Piece Title: “Beggar” Medium: Oil on canvas School: Etowah High School Teacher: Ms. Shannah Dean Second Place Winner Student: Grace Maavere Artwork Title: “Hooked” Medium: Ink, watercolor School: Creekview High School Teacher: Linda Nicholson Third Place Winner Student: Madison Burgard Artwork Title: “Printed Stare” Medium: Acrylic paint on paper School: Creekview High School Teacher: Linda Nicholson Honorable Mention #1 Student: Trinity Byrd Artwork Title: “Bloom from Despair" Medium: Acrylic School: Cass High School Teacher: Katherine Jenkins Honorable Mention #2 Student: Graciela Elaine Artwork Title: “Miscellaneous Leaf Drawing” Medium: Colored pencils School: River Ridge High School Teacher: MaryJo Mulvey This year’s winner, Aidan Lyerly, received an art scholarship and two airline tickets to Washington D.C. for the official awards ceremony this summer.
03.31.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement congratulating Mr. Travis Ellis on being the first native Georgian to receive the Citizen Honors Award from the Congressional Medal of Honor Society: “There is no one I know more deserving of this prestigious award than Travis Ellis. Why? Because I know Travis, and I know his work comes from deep in his heart. He is a true believer in what he does and in the veterans he helps. Travis is not just talking, he is doing; and that’s why lives are being saved. Congratulations Travis, we need more Americans like you!” Background The Citizen Honors Award is the Congressional Medal of Honor Society’s highest award. Each year, this award is given to six heroes who have demonstrated courageous acts or selfless service in their communities. Recipients of the Medal of Honor were recently recognized at a ceremony at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall in Arlington, Virginia. Ellis, a Georgian, received this award for his work with the Shepherd’s Men, a group he co-founded to raise awareness and support for the Atlanta-based Shepherd Center’s SHARE Military Initiative, which treats PTSD and Traumatic Brain injury in veterans. The Shepherd's Men is a group of active duty military, veterans and volunteers who come together to help care for and support these warriors in need.
03.29.2017	As a member of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting legislation to ensure the EPA relies on sound science that is public, not secretive. "For several years, the EPA and other government bureaucracies have been pushing out environmental regulations based on new scientific ‘discoveries’ relating to climate change. However, the data on which these ‘discoveries’ are based have not been made available to the general scientific community for review or fact-checking. This has brought into question the overall motives of the EPA and other agencies who are demanding more environmental regulations. All regulatory decisions should be based on factual scientific information that is open and available for public viewing. Americans deserve common sense reform, and this bill is a positive step to bring honesty and sound science to the EPA.” Background The Honest and Open New EPA Science Treatment Act of 2017, H.R. 1430, requires the EPA to base its regulations on science that is open to the public, not kept secret.
03.28.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting to roll back a harmful internet regulation issued by the Obama Administration this past year: “Internet technology innovation has flourished over the past decade, primarily because this segment of our economy has been relatively free from government over-regulation. However, during the past 8 years, there were numerous efforts by the federal government to push regulations upon the technology sector. While some government intervention is occasionally justified to protect the privacy of citizens, in this case the Federal Communications Commission overstepped its bounds, implementing a rule that only targeted internet service providers, but not other internet technology companies. If a regulation is justified, it should apply across the board, not a targeted sub-segment of an industry. Today, I voted to peel back this senseless rule and restore freedom and proper privacy protections to Americans.” Background Click HERE to read S.J.Res.34, Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Federal Communications Commission relating to Protecting the Privacy of Customers of Broadband and Other Telecommunications Services.
03.27.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) will join Senator Johnny Isakson, and other members of the Georgia delegation, for the annual U.S. Military Service Academy Day on Saturday, April 29, 2017 at Dobbins Air Reserve Base. This event is open to all 8th – 12th grade students interested in attending one of the nation’s five service academies. “If you are interested in attending one of our nation’s service academies, you don’t want to miss this event,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “You will have the opportunity to engage with service academy representatives, learn about the nomination process, and gain a better understanding of what an academy experience can offer. I’m looking forward to meeting students from all over Georgia’s 11th District who are interested in spending four years at a service academy in preparation to serve our nation.” U.S. service academies to be represented include: Air Force Academy, Coast Guard Academy, Merchant Marine Academy, Military Academy, and Naval Academy. Due to security requirements at the base, all attendees and parents must register online with Sen. Johnny Isakson’s office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Monday, April 17, 2017 HERE. WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Sen. Johnny Isakson, and other members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation WHAT: U.S. Military Service Academy Day WHEN: Saturday, April 29, 2017 | 10:00 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. WHERE: Dobbins Air Reserve Base, Hanger 5 1291 Cobb Parkway South Marietta, GA 30067 For more information on applying to a U.S. Service Academy, contact Rep. Loudermilk’s academy coordinator, Crystal Gilbert, at 770-429-1776 or email crystal.gilbert@mail.house.gov. ####
03.22.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting a bill to help small business owners lower health insurance costs for their employees: “For 15 of the 20 years I owned a small business, my employees received affordable health insurance through a group plan. However, even though my employees were promised they could keep their existing health care plan under the ACA, the government determined their insurance wasn't good enough and forced them into more expensive plans with less coverage. Obamacare was a complete disaster for my employees and my business. The House has passed legislation that will allow businesses to join together to form group health insurance plans for their employees. As promised, we are removing government restrictions, giving these business owners freedom to negotiate lower costs of health care for their employees.” Background The Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R.1101, allows for the creation of Association Health Plans (AHPs), giving small businesses more power to negotiate lower health care costs, leveling the playing field with larger companies and unions.
03.17.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting three key bills that help veterans across America: “We can do better for our veterans; which is why I supported these three pieces of legislation to help put our veterans’ needs first. While honest, hardworking VA employees strive to bring the best care to our veterans, bad actors in the VA are gaming the system and bringing the agency down. The culture of the VA has to change in order for real, positive change to occur; and it starts with taking bureaucracy out of the equation. This includes more high-quality doctors, and guarding veterans’ Second Amendment protections when someone is handling their financial affairs. These common sense changes are some of the steps we are taking to bring a new approach to providing our veterans with the care they deserve.” Background H.R. 1259 – VA Accountability First Act of 2017 • Enhances quality of services at the VA, holding bad actors accountable while keeping whistle blower protections in place. H.R. 1367 – To improve the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire and retain physicians and other employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes • Improves the VA’s ability to recruit and retain high-quality health care providers and other professionals. H.R. 1181 – Veterans 2nd Amendment Protection Act • Ensures no veteran or beneficiary loses their Second Amendment protection due to being labeled ‘mentally defective’ simply because someone assists them with their financial affairs.
03.16.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) announced today that artwork from the 11th District’s Congressional Art Competition will be featured at the Southern Museum of Civil War and Locomotive History, in Kennesaw, through the end of March. “There are some very talented artists right here in our district,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “I’m always impressed by the art our high school students submit, and I’m excited to see what their creativity brings to this year’s competition. No one should miss the opportunity to see this great local talent.” The annual Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students living in Georgia’s 11th Congressional District. The winner of this year’s competition will be recognized at a special awards ceremony in Washington, D.C., and have their artwork featured in the halls of the U.S. Capitol for a year. Artwork entries will be displayed at the Southern Museum of Civil War and Locomotive History from March 20 through March 31. All guests are welcome to stop by and view the exhibit free of charge during the hours of 9:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Monday – Saturday, and 11:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Sunday.
03.08.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) voted in support of the annual defense funding legislation that ensures military readiness, maintains technology advancement, enhances medical care for troops and their families, and provides essential tools for U.S. soldiers. He issued the following statement: “When our troops sign up to serve, they are willing to lay down their lives for our freedom. The very least we can do is give them the equipment, training, and support they need do their jobs well. Today, I voted for a bill that will give our service members a much deserved pay increase, and will shore up our lagging defense budget. This means our military pilots can get the flying hours they need to stay proficient because they will have the fuel they need to fly. This means my son and his Guard unit can once again train in the field using real bullets. This means our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coast guardsmen can be fully prepared to defend our nation when called upon to do so. Our men and women in uniform are the best in the world, and they serve us honorably. I’m proud to support their sacrifices and valiant efforts as they protect and defend us.” Background To read the summary and bill text of the FY 2017 Defense Appropriations, click HERE.
02.23.2017	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) joined with other legislators in sending a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee supporting Supreme Court nominee, Judge Neil Gorsuch. “Judge Gorsuch has shown a deep respect for the rule of law and the original intent of the Constitution, and has not used his office to fulfil a personal or political agenda,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “He is a strong jurist and committed constitutionalist. President Trump nominated a well-respected person to fill the current vacancy on the Supreme Court, and I look forward to the Senate confirming him.”
02.16.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting in favor of a bill that gives states flexibility in allocating federal funds to communities in need of health care services, rather than being forced to funnel these funds only to Planned Parenthood. “States should decide how to serve the health care needs of their communities, not big government bureaucrats in Washington D.C. By repealing this Obama-era rule, states will once again be able to determine how to best serve the needs of their citizens. Passing this repeal reinforces the founders ideas of federalism, and supports protecting the lives of the unborn.” Background House Joint Resolution 43 strikes down an Obama Administration rule and allows states to enjoy the freedom and flexibility of using Title 10 funds in a way that serves their communities, rather than using portions of the grant money to fund the Planned Parenthood organization.
02.14.2017	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) announced Kennesaw Mountain High School student Ryan Cobelli and Wheeler High School student Arvin Poddar as the winners of the 2017 Congressional App Challenge for Georgia’s 11th Congressional District for the second year. Teammates Ryan Cobelli and Arvin Poddar (pictured) created a specially designed app called Legacy Park – an app aimed at closing the communications gap between Homeowners Associations (HOA) and the neighborhoods they serve. It allows the HOA to instantly send out notifications and surveys to subsets of the community, allowing residents to stay up-to-date with information that applies directly to them without receiving unnecessary content. As the winning app from Georgia’s 11th District, Legacy Park App will be featured on CongressionalAppChallenge.us and exhibited on a digital display at the U.S. Capitol. “As our world is becoming increasingly dominated by technology, the future of those going into STEM-based fields is bright,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Georgia students who participated in this challenge showed extraordinary talent in their coding abilities, and I am inspired by their creativity.” Kennesaw Mountain High School Principal Dr. Mark Trachtenbroit said, “STEM education is essential, and I am impressed by the achievements of Ryan and Arvin. In developing beneficial Apps, and by winning the Congressional App Challenge for a second consecutive year, Ryan and Arvin demonstrate evidence of scientific literacy and an appreciation of the world they live in. This is important because it is imperative that students develop STEM skills and scientific literacy to be competitive in the 21st century workplace.” The Congressional App Challenge Executive Director Rhianon Anderson said, "Coding and computer science are the skills of our economic future - and every child deserves the chance to participate in that future. We're grateful for Rep. Loudermilk’s participation in the Challenge and his efforts to encourage students to learn how to code. Arvin and Ryan's fantastic work shows just how much potential Georgia's students have, when they're given the opportunity to show it." The Congressional App Challenge is designed to engage student creativity and encourage participation in STEM-based education fields. Established by members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2015, this competition is part of a nationwide event that allows high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or app, for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on the platform of their choice. Apps were judged based on the following criteria: quality of idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. Legacy Park App, the winning app for Georgia’s 11th Congressional District, can be viewed here.
02.07.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after co-signing a bill to close down the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): “As an outdoor enthusiast, I am dedicated to preserving our environment and natural resources. However, the EPA is no longer effective in protecting and preserving our environment. “You don't have to look far to find examples of the EPA's bureaucratic overreach being counter-productive to good environmental protection. As recently as 2015, the EPA ignored an environmental contractor’s objection to excavating the Gold King Mine in Colorado, warning of a potential blowout. The excavation ended up causing a blowout that contaminated waterways in three states with toxic levels of arsenic and mercury. “The EPA has become an overgrown and unaccountable bureaucracy wrought with fraud and waste. I believe it is time to restructure government with smaller agencies who work with states to develop national environmental policy that is enforced by state governments.” Background H.R. 861, a bill to close down the Environmental Protection Agency, would go into effect on December 31, 2018.
02.03.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after introducing a bill to drain the swamp of federal government agencies: “While there are scores of hardworking Americans employed by the federal government, there are also those so entrenched in the bureaucracy, they have learned to game the federal employment system to their advantage. Under current employment policies, it takes over 300 days to remove an employee who is underperforming, unqualified, or has committed acts of misconduct. “A recent Congressional investigation uncovered the fact that the Department of Homeland Security has paid $380 million in salary and benefits for employees who have lost their security clearance due to disciplinary actions. Because it takes so long to process them off the federal payroll, some of these employees were paid to stay at home for up to two years. “The American people expect the government to be held to the same laws and standards they are held to; however, current employment law protects bad employees, while good employees have to take up their slack. The MERIT act will provide a desperately needed update to federal law to ensure efficiency, transparency and accountability within the civil service.” Background The Modern Employment Reform, Improvement and Transformation (MERIT) Act, H.R. 559, offers an alternative dismissal protocol for all government agencies. It gives federal managers the option to expedite the dismissal process of bad employees, while still allowing administrators to choose to use the current system. Supporters of this legislation include: Americans for Prosperity, The R Street Institute, Council of Citizens Against Government Waste, Americans for Tax Reform, Campaign for Liberty, FreedomWorks, Less Government, National Taxpayers Union, and Taxpayers Protection Alliance.
02.03.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after President Trump issued an order rolling back the planned implementation of a Department of Labor rule that would impose onerous liabilities for small financial planners: “Today, President Trump took appropriate action to roll back an egregious overreach by the previous Administration. The rule issued last year by the Department of Labor subjecting private financial advisors to unreasonable liability, had a devastating impact on small businesses and the American citizens who rely on the advice of these professionals. I commend the President for taking immediate action to roll back government-control over hardworking Americans.” Background The Department of Labor’s proposed fiduciary rule would raise costs and reduce access to retirement investment advice for Americans with low and moderate incomes as well as employees of small businesses. This rule was issued by the previous Administration, and reports from the private sector indicated that the rule was a threat to $472 billion of small business retirement plans. It would have potentially caused harm to 9 million American households. Members of Congress have fought to overhaul this rule, but experienced repeated opposition from the previous Administration, including a Presidential veto of a bipartisan bill to repeal it.
02.02.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch to serve as the next Supreme Court Justice: “America needs jurists on our Supreme Court who respect the separation of powers, honor the rule of law, and uphold the original intent of the Constitution. The Supreme Court does not exist to advance a political agenda or shape the culture of America. I commend President Trump on his selection of Judge Neil Gorsuch." "Judge Gorsuch has shown a deep respect for our governing laws and does not use his office to fulfil a personal or political agenda. Rather, he objectively evaluates the law and thoughtfully considers every case before him as our founders envisioned. He is a strong jurist and committed constitutionalist. President Trump picked a well-respected man to fill the current vacancy on the Supreme Court, and I look forward to the Senate confirming him.”
01.30.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) reintroduced a bill that passed the House today to preserve a historic piece of property at the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park. “Our nation has long recognized the importance of preserving historic sites, especially those battlefields where Americans fought and died for freedom,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Sites such as Kennesaw Mountain Battlefield Park allow us to look back in time to get a glimpse of the events that shaped our nation. It is extremely important that we understand our history; otherwise, we will be destined to repeat the mistakes of our past. This bill, which I introduced in the last Congress, aims to preserve our nation’s heritage right here in the district I’m privileged to represent.” The Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act, H.R. 558, modifies the boundary of the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park in Georgia to include approximately eight acres identified as Wallis House and Harriston Hill. The legislation will authorize the National Park Service to acquire the property through donation. U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) sponsored this legislation in the Senate, and it is co-sponsored by seven other Georgia members of the House of Representatives. Senator Isakson said, “I’m proud to again introduce this legislation, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives during the last Congress. By adding the Wallis House and Harriston Hill, we will expand the park’s boundaries and add to the historical significant of the park, as these locations provided key strategic key positions for both Confederate and Union troops during the Battle on Kennesaw.” “The addition of the Wallis House and Harriston Hill will give visitors a full picture of the historical significance of this battleground,” said Senator Perdue. “I’m proud to join my fellow Georgians in working to preserve our state’s history.” History Built by Josiah Wallis in 1853 and occupied by his family until the Civil War, the Wallis House was used as a hospital by the Confederate Army. During the Atlanta Campaign, the Wallis House was used as the headquarters for Union General William T. Sherman during the Battle of Kolb’s Farm. The house was also used as the headquarters for Union General Oliver O. Howard during the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain – the last major battle leading to the fall of Atlanta. Adjacent to the Wallis House is the 5.5-acre Harriston Hill, which was used by General Howard as a signaling position and offered a sweeping view of the valley leading to the Confederate line atop Kennesaw Mountain.
01.25.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) was selected to serve as a steering member of the Republican Study Committee (RSC). “It is a very special time in America - a time when we need to be more focused on making a difference than making an argument," said Rep. Loudermilk. "That’s the objective of the Republican Study Committee, so serving on the Steering Committee is a responsibility I am honored to accept. We need fresh ideas, effective reforms, and lasting changes to improve the quality of life for every American. The debt our children and grandchildren shoulder and the regulations suffocating our businesses cannot continue if we want to cultivate a healthy economy. They deserve better. I’m grateful for the opportunity to roll up my sleeves and get to work on shrinking our oversized government and passing on a nation that is free, safe, and full of opportunity to the next generation.” RSC Chairman, Rep. Mark Walker said, “We have a unique opportunity in the 115th Congress to do more than simply make an argument – we have the opportunity to make a positive, lasting difference in all of our communities. I am proud to officially name Rep. Barry Loudermilk as a member of the Republican Study Committee’s Steering Committee. He will serve as a trusted advisor as we advance pro-active, conservative policies with a genuine approach and a strong voice that addresses the challenges facing our nation. I am privileged to work with Barry, and appreciate his guidance and leadership.” Background The RSC serves as a House Republican caucus, promoting conservative ideas and policies to limit government, rein-in out-of-control spending, and protect and preserve American liberty. RSC steering members provide guidance to the RSC Chairman and champion key conservative policies shaping the nation.
01.24.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting pro-life legislation that permanently stops taxpayers from being forced to pay for abortions: “Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness are rights our founders understood were granted by God and protected by government. Life, according to the founders, is the most basic of all rights - and it is a responsibility of the government to protect it from its very beginning. Without protection of this basic right, innocent unborn children may never breathe their first breath outside their mother’s womb, much less experience their right to liberty or the pursuit of happiness. “For years, Republicans have added to every spending bill a provision, known as the Hyde Amendment, prohibiting federal funds from being used to pay for abortions. Today, we passed a bill that will make this temporary amendment permanent policy of the federal government. While this legislation will not bring an end to elective abortions, it will ensure that taxpayers will not be forced to fund them.” Background The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortions Act, H.R. 7, codifies the Hyde Amendment, which protects taxpayer dollars from being used to fund abortions. Traditionally, the Hyde Amendment only applied to funds appropriated in the Health and Human Services spending bill, but this legislation makes the amendment permanent, and applies to all government agencies, not just a few.
01.19.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) and Georgia House Republicans today showed unwavering support for President-elect Trump’s nomination of former Georgia Governor George Ervin “Sonny” Perdue III to serve as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. U.S. Rep. Buddy Carter (GA-01): “Former Governor Sonny Perdue is the perfect choice to lead the Department of Agriculture. As the top industry in our state, Georgians know how important agriculture is. As a two-term Governor of Georgia, Sonny has already proven himself to be a strong leader who will fight to ensure the agriculture industry is able to accomplish their important work. The hard work of our farmers, ranchers, and producers is critical to the production of the safest, most abundant and most affordable food supply in the world and I look forward to working with former Governor Perdue to ensure Washington doesn’t stand in their way.” U.S. Rep. Drew Ferguson (GA-03): “Sonny is an excellent choice to be the next Secretary of Agriculture. His experience as a veterinarian combined with his executive experience as a two-term governor make him uniquely qualified to lead the USDA. I have personally had the honor of working alongside Governor Perdue to create thousands of new jobs in Georgia. Sonny has always been committed to making sure businesses, and especially agriculture in Georgia, are successful. I look forward to working with him as the Secretary of Agriculture.” U.S. Rep. Rob Woodall (GA-07): “Georgians are well aware of Governor Perdue’s heart for service, and I have no doubt he will bring that same spirit and commitment to this new role. Having served as Governor of Georgia, whose number one industry is agriculture, his knowledge and experience in both the public and private sectors make him an excellent choice to lead the Department of Agriculture. It makes me very proud to see the role Georgia will be playing in moving America forward, and I look forward to partnering with him.” U.S. Rep. Austin Scott (GA-08): Member of the House Committee on Agriculture and Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and Credit: “America’s will have a great Secretary of Agriculture in Sonny Perdue, and I am confident Sonny will be an excellent representative of our state in his service to our country’s agriculture communities. Agriculture is Georgia’s leading industry, so we’re glad to have someone who understands our state’s agricultural needs and act as a champion for the needs of our farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.” U.S. Rep. Doug Collins (GA-09): “Sonny Perdue is an outstanding choice for Secretary of Agriculture. The experience he brings to that role will be a boon to agricultural communities from coast to coast, including the poultry industry, which is a key part of Georgia’s livelihood.” U.S. Rep. Jody Hice (GA-10): “Given his executive experience as a two-term Governor and his background as an agribusiness owner, Sonny Perdue is an outstanding choice to lead the Department of Agriculture. During his tenure as Governor, he shaped an agricultural policy that helped usher in a new era of economic growth. Agriculture remains the top industry in Georgia, and I look forward to working with Sonny as Secretary of Agriculture to continue supporting our farming communities.” U.S. Rep. Barry Loudermilk (GA-11): “It’s great to see my friend, former Governor Sonny Perdue, selected to serve as our next Agriculture Secretary. His proven conservative leadership on Georgia’s agricultural interests teamed with his business background makes him an excellent choice to lead this department.” U.S. Rep. Rick Allen (GA-12), Member of the House Committee on Agriculture: “From the farm he grew up on in Perry, Georgia to his service in the U.S. Air Force, veterinary and agribusiness career, and later Governor of Georgia, Sonny Perdue makes an excellent and obvious choice for the next Secretary of Agriculture. Hailing from a state like Georgia, where agriculture is our number one industry, I am confident in Sonny’s ability to represent the interests of all American agriculture. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I look forward to his leadership and working with him to advance the needs of our farmers and the industry as a whole.” U.S. Rep. Tom Graves (GA-14): “Governor Perdue is the perfect choice to lead the Agriculture Department. Between his work as a veterinarian and agribusiness owner to his eight years as governor, he’s walked the fields of Georgia to the halls of the executive office. He has the right combination of experience, and I have no doubt that Sonny will serve the American people well.”
01.18.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) has reintroduced a bill to preserve a historic piece of property at Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park. “Our nation has long recognized the importance of preserving historic sites, especially those battlefields where Americans fought and died for freedom,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Sites such as Kennesaw Mountain Battlefield Park allow us to look back in time to get a glimpse of the events that shaped our nation. It is extremely important that we understand our history; otherwise, we will be destined to repeat the mistakes of our past. This bill, which I introduced in the last Congress, aims to preserve our nation’s heritage right here in the district I’m privileged to represent.” The Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act, H.R. 558, modifies the boundary of the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park in Georgia to include approximately eight acres identified as Wallis House and Harriston Hill. The legislation will authorize the National Park Service to acquire the property through donation. U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) sponsored this legislation in the Senate, and it is co-sponsored by seven other Georgia members of the House of Representatives. Senator Isakson said, “I’m proud to again introduce this legislation, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives during the last Congress. By adding the Wallis House and Harriston Hill, we will expand the park’s boundaries and add to the historical significant of the park, as these locations provided key strategic key positions for both Confederate and Union troops during the Battle on Kennesaw.” “The addition of the Wallis House and Harriston Hill will give visitors a full picture of the historical significance of this battleground,” said Senator Perdue. “I’m proud to join my fellow Georgians in working to preserve our state’s history.” History Built by Josiah Wallis in 1853 and occupied by his family until the Civil War, the Wallis House was used as a hospital by the Confederate Army. During the Atlanta Campaign, the Wallis House was used as the headquarters for Union General William T. Sherman during the Battle of Kolb’s Farm. The house was also used as the headquarters for Union General Oliver O. Howard during the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain – the last major battle leading to the fall of Atlanta. Adjacent to the Wallis House is the 5.5-acre Harriston Hill, which was used by General Howard as a signaling position and offered a sweeping view of the valley leading to the Confederate line atop Kennesaw Mountain.
01.13.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting a Senate Concurrent Resolution to authorize the relief of Obamacare for millions of Americans: “When someone is severely wounded, before you can do anything else, you have to stop the bleeding. Obamacare has been an open wound for Americans, and we have to stop it before it gets any worse. Today, House Republicans took the first step in the healing process of our American healthcare system. This resolution does not repeal Obamacare, but it gives Congress the legislative tools to dismantle this harmful law and avoid continued filibustering by Democrats. We are excited to repeal it once and for all, helping all Americans have more choices, lower health service costs, and better care.” Background To read Sen.Con.Res 3, click HERE.
01.12.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting legislation to hold all government agencies more accountable: “The American people deserve to know the full impact and cost they will bear from new regulations crafted by government bureaucracies. The bureaucrats responsible for these regulations cannot remain insensible to how they impact our lives and our economy. This legislation will mandate transparency and economic impact assessment within the SEC, but we should apply this standard to every agency, department, and bureaucracy in Washington, D.C.” Background The SEC Regulatory Accountability Act, H.R. 78, directs the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to conduct a thorough cost-benefit analysis of each regulation before being implemented. It also ensures that all federal agencies – not just a select few – are held to uniform standards and accountability.
01.11.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement on the passage of the Regulatory Accountability Act, which packaged six Constitutional Article 1-related bills into one comprehensive piece of legislation: “Article 1 of the U.S. Constitution states that ‘all legislative powers’ are granted to the legislative branch; however, over the past several decades, the executive branch has claimed more and more legislative authority. This assuming of power has grown to the point that Congress is now in the position of vetoing policies that were unilaterally enacted by the President, and have the effect of law. This is the opposite of what our founders established. “Today, the House passed a comprehensive bill which takes a huge step in rebalancing the separate powers of government. Last year, I fought hard, alongside other conservative House members, to reclaim the Article 1 powers of Congress. This year, with this and other similar bills, we are creating momentum towards returning to the Constitution and shifting the direction of our nation - putting the American people back in the driver’s seat and allowing Congress to legislate and carry out the people’s work.” Background The Regulatory Accountability Act, H.R. 5, significantly reforms the regulatory process, increasing agency homework and disclosure requirements necessary before final publication. Legislation included in H.R. 5: • Regulatory Accountability Act - Require agencies to choose the lowest cost rule-making alternative that meets statutory objectives. - Increasing information disclosure and opportunity for public input/vetting of critical information and alternatives, especially for major and billion-dollar rules. • Separation of Powers Restoration Act (SOPRA) - Implementing judicial review to undo Chevron and Auer doctrines. • Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act - Requires agencies to report on the direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts of new regulations on small businesses. Increases disclosure of agency action and info required to be part of an agency’s regulatory flexibility analysis. • Require Evaluation before Implementing Executive Wishlists (REVIEW) Act - Prohibits new billion-dollar rules from taking effect until courts can resolve timely filed litigation. • All Economic Regulations Are Transparent (ALERT) Act - Requires agencies to submit a monthly report to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for each rule expected to be proposed or finalized during the upcoming year. - Reports include summary, objective legal basis, stage of rulemaking and review due to economic impact. • Providing Accountability Through Transparency Act - Requires agencies to post a 100-word summary to regulations.gov.
01.10.2017	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting to remove regulatory barriers in the way of small business growth: “Roadblock after roadblock – our businesses are suffering the long reach of big government. Overregulation by the federal government has made it nearly impossible for small businesses to access money to start or grow a business. This bill is a significant step in rolling back overreaching rules and implementing policies that put Main Street America first.” Background The Helping Angels Lead Our Startups (HALOS) Act, H.R. 79, clarifies that informal demo days should not be considered as general solicitations, and it allows entrepreneurs to participate in these events without having to check for accredited status.
01.09.2017	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement after voting for legislation blocking the federal government from enacting costly regulations without congressional approval: “In the two years I have been in Congress, the number of new regulations imposed on hardworking Americans by federal bureaucracies is absolutely staggering. When the documentation for these new regulations are printed and stacked, the pile reaches over twenty feet tall. Since freedom and government control are opposing entities, these massive regulations have not only cost Americans their freedom, but have also cost countless jobs, stifled economic growth, and stripped Americans of the freedom to pursue happiness. Since the average American family pays over fifteen thousand dollars annually in hidden regulatory taxes, this financial burden has lessened the quality of life for millions.” The REINS Act is a good start to reining-in the out of control bureaucracies that impose their will on the American people without Congressional involvement or approval. Background The Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, H.R. 26, begins to put the brakes on the federal government’s burdensome regulatory powers, which have driven businesses out of the marketplace and raised the cost of living for American families. This legislation seeks to restore much needed checks and balances to the regulatory process, requiring Congress to approve proposed regulations that would cost Americans more than $100 million per year.
01.05.2017	The House Republicans selected Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) to serve on the Financial Services Committee in the 115th Congress. Rep. Loudermilk will be the only Georgia Republican Congressman on this critically important panel. “When bad regulation helped to create a financial crisis a decade ago, Congress tried to fix the problem with more bad regulation,” said Loudermilk. “As a result, these overbearing federal regulations have stifled job growth, expanded unemployment, restricted business expansion, and caused millions of Americans to be underpaid and underemployed. With the exciting changes taking place in Washington, we now have a tremendous opportunity to repeal overreaching government regulations and replace them with a system that promotes investment, encourages expansion, and stimulates growth and prosperity. I am excited for the opportunity to join a committee willing to tackle these hard issues and push reforms that will create jobs, expand business, and create opportunity for all Americans.” “Barry’s proven track record and commitment to reducing the size and scope of government will be an invaluable asset to the Financial Services Committee,” said Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R – TX), Chairman of the Financial Services Committee. Financial services issues are vitally important to Georgia, which is home to more banks than any other southern state. Within the Peach State lies sixty percent of the nation’s financial technology companies and seventy percent of the nation’s transaction processing, along with strong insurance, retail, securities, and housing industries. Rep. Loudermilk brings a unique background and perspective to the committee as an IT professional, a former small business owner, and a veteran. Rep. Loudermilk was also appointed by Speaker Paul Ryan to serve on the Committee on House Administration, which oversees Congress’ internal management and operations. Background The Financial Services Committee focuses on financial independence and job creation. Aiming for a free and growing marketplace, the committee has jurisdiction over the banking system, credit unions, consumer credit, insurance, securities, housing, monetary policy, and many other important issues. To learn more, please visit the Financial Services Committee’s website here.
12.02.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after supporting the U.S. military through the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “Our military is the finest in the world – they fight for us, spill blood for us, and even die for us. Their sacrifice and commitment exemplifies their loyalty to our country, and in turn, we must provide them with the tools, materials and support they need. We also must provide for the personal needs of those preserving our freedom. That’s why I voted today to increase their pay by 2.1 percent. This legislation also keeps the world’s most dangerous terrorists out of our backyards, isolated at Guantanamo Bay. Helping tighten readiness gaps, upgrading equipment and tools, and offering better healthcare to our troops are also included in this NDAA package.” To read and learn more about the National Defense Authorization Act, S. 2943, click HERE.
12.01.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting to repeal a portion of Dodd-Frank: “The more bureaucrats pile on excessive bank regulations, the worse our economy gets. Dodd-Frank has served two purposes - to destroy American financial institutions, and to drain the pockets of hardworking Americans. Overly rigid government regulations stifle job growth by restricting the flow of capital from banks, causing them to focus on compliance rather than customer service. That’s why I strongly support this action. We need common sense reforms that put Americans back in the driver’s seat and foster a healthy economy that works for us, not against us.” Background The Systemic Risk Designation Improvement Act of 2016, H.R. 6392, significantly reforms one of the most damaging aspects of Dodd-Frank. The bill enacts a five-part standard to better define which financial institutions are considered 'too big to fail.' The current broad standard of $50 billion includes institutions that would otherwise not fit within the 'too big to fail' category, but are susceptible to the regulations designed for mega financial institutions.
11.29.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement after President-elect Donald Trump nominated Chairman Tom Price, M.D. (R-GA) as the Secretary of Health and Human Services: “There is no one I know better suited to lead the Department of Health and Human Services than Dr. Price. The President-elect needs someone who has a depth of experience in healthcare and a deep appreciation for the Constitution and the proper role of the federal government, and that's exactly what Tom brings to the administration.”
11.17.2016	After voting to undo numerous rules and regulations issued by the current administration, Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement: “Overbearing government rules and regulations are killing American jobs and hurting American businesses. The average family pays nearly $15,000 in hidden regulatory fees every year; and we wonder why our economy hasn’t been working for hardworking Americans. We, in the House, took action today to undo many harmful regulations wreaking havoc on our economy. This is one of the many bold actions we are taking to rein in runaway federal agencies - whose unelected bureaucrats create laws, masked as regulations. We are gaining momentum in making real, tangible change in our country - to give our children and grandchildren a nation that is free, safe, and full of opportunity.” Background The Midnight Rules Relief Act, H.R 5982, amends the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to allow Congress to pass one piece of legislation disapproving multiple regulations issued by a president in their final year of office.
11.17.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) voted to ban Iran from purchasing U.S. aircraft. He issued the following statement: “Until the new administration can take the reins and clean up the mess created by the dangerous Iran Deal, we in Congress have a responsibility to do everything we can to limit its damage. One of the outcomes of the deal was the lifting of financial sanctions. As the administration puts it, Iran is ‘the world’s foremost state sponsor of terrorism’ - so it just doesn’t make sense that they want to strengthen their efforts. To ensure that the U.S. doesn’t sell commercial passenger aircraft to Iran, we passed a bill that makes it unlawful for our government to make any kind of financial deals with them, period.” Background Read H.R. 5711 HERE - “To prohibit the Secretary of the Treasury from authorizing certain transactions by a U.S. financial institution in connection with the export or re-export of a commercial passenger aircraft to the Islamic Republic of Iran.”
11.15.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) and republican colleagues passed legislation today that extends sanctions on Iran for another ten years. He issued the following statement: “We need to get one thing straight – Iran is not our friend. While they chant ‘death to America,’ this administration yields to their every demand. Any country funding terrorism should be regarded as our enemy and should be heavily sanctioned. We’re committed to restricting American investment in Iran, including all aspects of trade and other business transactions. The world’s leading and most active state sponsor of terror will be held accountable for their actions and will not be rewarded.” Background The Iran Sanctions Extension Act, H.R.6297, is a 10-year extension of the Iran Sanctions Act, which allows the U.S. to sanction Iran’s trade business, banking industry, defense, nuclear programs, and more.
10.18.2016	The office of Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today announced the participation of Georgia’s 11th Congressional District in the 3rd Annual Congressional App Challenge – an opportunity for students ages 13 and up to design creative apps that promote and encourage STEM-based (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) skills. “The spirit of ingenuity is what marks American exceptionalism,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “What the Wright Brothers, Thomas Edison, and Astronaut Neil Armstrong all had in common was a bold vision. When everyone else around them laughed at the thought of flying, inventing a light bulb, or walking on the moon, these innovators persevered until they made possible what people thought was impossible. The same spirit found in these is encompassed in our youth today. “The Congressional App Challenge gives the next generation an opportunity to unleash their creativity and showcase their skills. I encourage our high school students in the 11th District to participate in this unique challenge.” Sponsored by the Internet Education Foundation, the Congressional App Challenge recognizes the talent of students in the areas of computer programming, design, and digital technology. As part of the competition, students will compete against their peers by creating and exhibiting a software application, or app, for mobile, tablet, or computer device, on a platform of their choice. Between now and November 2, 2016, students may create an original app and submit it through Rep. Loudermilk’s Congressional App Challenge page. Apps will be judged based on the following criteria: • Quality of the idea, including creativity and originality • Implementation of the idea, including user experience and design • Demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills A winning individual or team from Georgia’s 11th District will be selected by a local panel of judges and recognized by Congressman Loudermilk. The winning app from each congressional district will also be featured as part of a special exhibit at the U.S. Capitol, recognized on StudentAppChallenge.us, and participate in $50,000 worth of prizes from Amazon. For more information on the competition or how to enter, contact Claire Bartlett at Claire.bartlett@mail.house.gov, or visit the Congressional app challenge section at website.
10.05.2016	Rep. Loudermilk with NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation’s leading advocate for small businesses, awarded Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) its distinguished Guardian of Small Business Award. “No single group has suffered more with the rampant growth and over-regulation of government than our nation's small business owners, " said Rep. Loudermilk. "I saw this firsthand as a small IT business owner for over two decades. This is why I have championed policies and legislation that rein in unaccountable bureaucrats who drain the lifeblood from our businesses. I appreciate NFIB recognizing my efforts to put the interests of Main Street ahead of government.” NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan stated, “Based on his voting record, Rep. Loudermilk is one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington. Many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but our Guardian Award shows our members and other small business owners who is really fighting for them.” Background The Guardian of Small Business is NFIB’s most prestigious award. It is reserved for lawmakers who vote consistently for key issues identified by small business owners. NFIB tracks the votes of every member of Congress.
09.29.2016	The House of Representatives, along with the Senate, has voted to override the president’s veto on a bill to allow families of the victims of the 9/11 terror attacks to sue foreign sponsors of terrorism. Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement: “For eight years America has been weakened by this president's foreign policies; and, several days ago he vetoed a bill that would allow Americans affected by terrorism to seek justice. The House of Representatives, and the Senate, has voted to override the president’s veto. With Congress taking bold action, families of the victims of the terrorist attacks on our nation will have the opportunity for justice. This action will allow for any government involved in funding terrorism to be held accountable." Background The Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act (JASTA) - S. 2040, authorizes U.S. courts to hear cases involving claims against a foreign state for injuries, death, or damages that occur inside the United States as a result of a tort, including an act of terrorism, committed anywhere by a foreign state or official. This bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously on September 9, 2016 after the Senate unanimously passed it on May 17. The President vetoed this legislation on September 23, and on September, 28, 2016, both chambers overrode President Obama’s veto.
09.28.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) supported a bill to relieve Americans who are penalized for having a health care plan through a failed Obamacare co-op. He issued the following statement: “Not once, not twice, but 37 times President Obama repeated, ‘if you like your health care plan, you can keep it.’ Not only was that statement untrue, but now, as Obamacare co-ops are failing and people are losing their health insurance coverage, citizens are being penalized with unending fees. There’s no logic in coercing people to buy a health care plan, and then punishing them when a bad system fails. That’s why we passed a bill that removes these senseless penalties and bureaucratic hurdles. We are fighting for Americans - for a free-market driven health care system that works and provides good quality care for everyone.” Background The Co-Op Consumer Protection Act, H.R. 954, ensures if someone purchases a plan under an Obamacare co-op, and that co-op goes under, they are exempt from the individual mandate penalty for the remainder of the calendar year.
09.26.2016	This week, the House of Representatives passed bills to counter the Administration's disastrous foreign policy actions with Iran. Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement after voting to prohibit cash payments to Iran and inserting Congressional authority over future settlement deals, and to bring financial transparency to the Iranian regime: “Iran is an enemy of the United States. Not by our own accord, but by the statements, actions, and policies of Iran’s ruling regime. They are a real and dangerous threat to Americans and our allies; however, this administration has been seemingly deaf to the chants of ‘death to America’ and blind to Iran's aggression towards our military, and has bent over backward to appease and support this radical regime ruling Iran. "By releasing finances tied up through sanctions, and the recent ransom payment, the President has provided over $2 billion in funds to Iran, which will undoubtedly be used to strengthen their military and support terrorist organizations. "For the safety and security of Americans and our allies, Congress has taken action to constrain the President from providing cash payments to Iran, or making any deals with the regime without explicit Congressional approval, and to expose the personal finances of the regimes' senior and political leaders.” Background The Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act - H.R. 5931, prohibits all cash payments to Iran, and demands Congressional approval on any future settlement deals with them. It also makes clear that the Obama administration violated longstanding U.S. policy by paying ransom for U.S. hostages. The Iranian Leadership Transparency Act - H.R. 5461, would require the Treasury Secretary to post online, in three different languages, a list estimating the 'funds and assets' held by senior Iranian political and military leaders, along with a description of how they acquired the assets and how those assets are employed.
09.22.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement after co-sponsoring and supporting a bill that would name a Marietta Post Office after Marine Lance Corporal Skip Wells: “On July 16 last year, Lance Corporal Skip Wells – a valiant American hero, gave his life when a radicalized gunman attacked his duty station in Chattanooga, TN. When the terrorist attack began, Corporal Wells did not back down to fear. Instead, he bravely faced the attacker with courage, putting himself in harm’s way to protect fellow marines and sailors. Skip’s life brought credit upon himself, his family and the United States Marine Corps. Skip will be remembered as a true American hero. Naming a Marietta Post Office in his honor will ensure his service, sacrifice and legacy will never be forgotten.” Background “To designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 2886 Sandy Plains Road in Marietta, Georgia, as the "Marine Lance Corporal Squire 'Skip' Wells Post Office Building" - H.R. 5612 can be found HERE.
09.19.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) co-authored an amendment to the Regulatory Integrity Act, which would require federal agencies to publish the economic impact estimates of each new regulation they implement. He issued the following statement: Click HERE to watch Rep. Loudermilk’s full remarks “We live in an era of vast growth of our federal government, and those bearing the burden of this overregulation are the American people. In fact, the average American family pays about $15,000 per year in hidden regulatory costs. The regulatory burden on our businesses and industry today is nearly $2 trillion per year. This amendment simply requires regulatory agencies to be more transparent with the American people – letting them see the actual cost of each new regulation.” Background The Regulatory Integrity Act requires each executive agency to publish either on their website, or on Regulations.gov, a list of details regarding each regulatory action they release, including a summary of the rule, the rule’s development timeline, the intended audience, and the estimated date of finalization.
09.16.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will host his Second Annual 11th Congressional District Veterans Expo on Tuesday, October 11, 2016 at LakePoint. This Expo is free and will provide veterans with a robust network of resources, benefits, and congressional support. “Our Veterans Expo will serve veterans of all ages,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Our team is working hard every day to inform the veterans of the 11th District about the many ways their Congressional office can assist and support them. America has enjoyed a rich heritage of freedom, thanks to these men and women, and it is our duty to ensure they have the resources and benefits they deserve.” The Expo will bring together over 20 veterans service organizations, including employers who hire veterans, to meet one-on-one with veterans and their families. Rep. Loudermilk will also have staff available on-site to assist and answer questions. Veterans Expo benefits and resources include: • Job & volunteer opportunities • Health care • Educational benefits • PTSD & TBI assistance • Home loans • Banking & insurance • Veterans service organizations • Burial assistance • Housing assistance • Transition and reintegration services The Expo is free and open to veterans of all ages. For additional information, please contact John Wallace or Phyllis Nall at 770-429-1776. For press inquiries, contact Shawna Mercer at Shawna.mercer@mail.house.gov. WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk Staff & Veterans Service Organizations WHAT: The Second Annual 11th Congressional District Veterans Expo WHEN: Tuesday, October 11, 2016 | 2:00 – 6:00 pm WHERE: LakePoint – Champions Center Pavilion 755 HWY 293, Emerson, GA 30137
09.15.2016	The House passed a bill today that prohibits any funds from being used to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees. Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement: “Guantanamo Bay is working. The world’s most dangerous terrorists sit in those cells, isolated from the rest of the world for our safety and protection. No prisoner has ever escaped from Gitmo; but instead of insisting they stay, the administration is determined to move the terrorists into American communities – cities, towns, and suburbs. Over the past few years, our president has transferred 181 highly dangerous terrorists to various locations, including the U.S. “I am having a difficult time understanding why this administration is so adamant about putting American lives in danger for the comfort of enemy combatants. But regardless of this president’s blatant disregard for our safety, we will keep fighting to protect our citizens who deserve to feel safe in their communities.” Background H.R. 5351, "To prohibit the transfer of any individual detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba Act," may be read HERE.
09.14.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) will run with the Shepherd’s Men and other members of Congress on Thursday, September 22, 2016, to support the SHARE Military Initiative – a comprehensive rehabilitation program for returning combat veterans with traumatic brain injury (TBI), which includes post traumatic stress disorder. Strapped with 22-pound flak jackets, the Shepherd’s Men will run around the nation’s capitol for 22 hours straight to raise awareness for the estimated 22 veterans who take their lives every day. Rep. Loudermilk, a military veteran himself, has participated in a portion of the annual Shepherd’s Men run for the past two years. Earlier this year, the Shepherd’s Men embarked on a nine-day journey from Boston to the Shepherd Center in Atlanta, Georgia. In 2014, the Shepherd’s Men ran from Langley to Atlanta; in 2015, they ran from Ground Zero to Atlanta. “Armed with unwavering resolve and 22-pound jackets, the Shepherd’s Men are on a mission to make a difference in the lives of veterans who suffer daily from physical and emotional disabilities,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “These men aren’t sitting on the sidelines waiting for others to take action, but jumping right into the fight to help veterans who so desperately need our help.” September is recognized nationally as Suicide Prevention Month. WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) WHAT: Shepherd’s Men Run Around the U.S. Capitol WHEN: Thursday, September 22, 2016 | 2:22 p.m. START: Northeast Lawn of the U.S. Capitol (In front of the Supreme Court)
09.12.2016	Washington D.C. (September 12, 2016) | With a strong commitment to cutting taxes, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has earned the ‘Tax Fighter Award.’ Only those with a proven voting record on conservative tax policy are recognized for this award by the National Tax-Limitation Committee (NTLC). “Fighting for lower taxes is what Americans deserve,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Our government needs to stop punishing hardworking Americans with burdensome tax hikes, and start fighting for them by cutting taxes. That’s exactly what my team and I have been doing – standing up for the American people. I appreciate the NTLC’s recognition of my efforts to simplify the tax code, get rid of the death tax, and promote investment in job creation.” NTLC President Lewis Uhler said, “Representative Loudermilk has been a major asset to the taxpayers all across America during his congressional service. He has had the courage to challenge the orthodoxy of Washington special interests. His leadership is vital to America’s future.”
09.09.2016	Washington D.C.(September 9, 2016) | On the House floor today, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) spoke in support of legislation that reduces regulatory burden on American businesses. Click HERE to watch Rep. Loudermilk’s full remarks “At a time when the American people are forced to comply with burdensome regulations that stifle business growth and strip Americans of their livelihood, Congress must take steps to cut through the red tape. The cost Dodd-Frank has had on America's financial services is enormous. Since this disastrous law put government bureaucrats in control, American businesses have spent millions of hours filling out additional paperwork and billions of dollars in compliance costs. “Today, regulatory compliance is the fastest growing job field in the financial sector. This is evidence of President Ronald Reagan’s warning that ‘government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem.’ This change would allow private companies to focus more on growing their businesses and creating jobs, and less on complying with excessive regulation.” Background The Accelerating Access to Capital Act, H.R. 2357, would expand the number of companies that are eligible to use a simplified registration form with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for public offerings. This will allow companies to obtain SEC approval in a matter of days, rather than months.
08.23.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement on his support of the HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act: “This is the type of common sense effort that we must take to ensure that our seniors are receiving the highest quality of care. This bill is a great example of a fiscally conservative answer to a challenging problem. “Currently, our seniors who rely on Medicare for their Alzheimer’s care have access to treatment services, but long-term planning is scarce and seniors are often left to fend for themselves. “Alzheimer’s affects 1-in-9 Americans over the age of 65. I have seen the effects this devastating illness has on family members, and I realize how difficult it is on the primary caregiver in the home. This bill would provide individuals and their caregivers with the comprehensive care and planning services they need and deserve. This legislation will deal with these issues by providing long-term health care planning for Medicare patients who are affected by Alzheimer’s, and it will save nearly $70 million a year by reducing excessive hospital visits.” Background The HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act, H.R. 1559, provides comprehensive care for Alzheimer’s patients, within Medicare, while saving taxpayer dollars in the process.
08.18.2016	Adidas Shoe Factory plans to open a new production site in Cherokee County next year, creating a 160 new jobs. Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement: “Georgia is a great place to do business – companies are thriving and our state economy is growing. Adidas couldn’t have picked a better location to expand their brand than right here in Georgia’s 11th district. I believe the strong sense of community is why Georgia and our District are rated among the best places in America live, work, and enjoy the blessings of liberty. We are excited that Adidas will be adding new jobs to our district, and are looking forward to seeing other companies follow their lead.”
08.05.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after reports of the Obama administration releasing $400 million to Iran earlier this year: "The United States does not negotiate with terrorists. Unfortunately, it appears that the President did not get that memo. On the very same day American hostages were freed in Tehran, the Obama administration reportedly sent Iran $400 million in cash. Iran has proven repeatedly that they are anti-America and cannot be trusted; yet our own State Department seems determined to empower them in every way possible. We must gather all the facts in this situation, and someone must explain to the American people why our government feels compelled to assist a nation that has vowed repeatedly to destroy America and our allies. We simply cannot tolerate the incentivizing of terrorist activities.”
07.21.2016	With nearly a quarter million software developer jobs remaining unfilled, and Metro Atlanta being a top 10 site for STEM careers, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will host a STEM-focused Career Fair on August 19th at the KSU Center of Kennesaw State University. “This is a great opportunity for anyone looking for a job or a career change to get connected with some of the top companies in the country,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “These companies are hiring for careers of the future and are eager to fill over 3,000 available positions.” Attendees will have a chance to meet with 75 companies in Atlanta who are hiring right now. Some of these companies include: World Pay, Southern Company, UPS, Cox Communications, Lexis-Nexis, Kubota, WellStar, and SITA. It is completely free to attend. Beginning at 8:00 a.m., experts will be conducting career building workshops on sharpening interview skills, resume writing or updating, and building a professional brand, as well as workshops on starting a business. What: Career Fair Who: Rep. Loudermilk’s team and 75 STEM-focused companies in Atlanta When: Friday, August 19, 2016 | 10:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. Where: Kennesaw State University, KSU Center 3333 Busbee Drive, NW Kennesaw, GA 30144
07.20.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after the passage of his bill, the National Institute of Standards and Technology Campus Security Act: "As Chairman of one of the House Oversight subcommittees, I have come face-to-face with just how unaccountable and corrupt our government has become. There are conspiracy novels that are more believable than some of the things going on in government at taxpayer expense. During an oversight investigation of the National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST), we learned that a NIST police officer caused significant damage to a government laboratory when his illegal meth lab exploded. Although this officer is no longer employed by NIST, this is just one of several cases of lax security and lack of accountability. “Congress has the responsibility to oversee these government agencies and hold them accountable, and that is a huge priority of my office. This bill is a major step in assuring the safety and security of NIST employees, as well as those who visit or live near NIST facilities." Background The National Institute of Standards and Technology Campus Security Act, H.R. 5636, directs the Secretary of Commerce’s Office of Security to oversee law enforcement programs at NIST by establishing an assigned NIST Director of Security. The bill also assigns the GAO to conduct a study evaluating the performance of the NIST Police Services Group. Click HERE to read the bill.
07.14.2016	The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that imposes strong sanctions on Iran. Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting in support of these important national security measures: “It should be no surprise to anyone that immediately after agreeing to the Obama Administration’s deal to lift sanctions on Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism began violating the terms of the agreement. However, the Administration buries their head in the sand, ignoring these blatant violations. Since the President refuses to take action, House Republicans have passed strong measures to stop the expansion of Iran’s nuclear program. It’s time we take bold and decisive action to protect the American people, and I applaud my colleagues for taking a stand.” Background The Iran Accountability Act, H.R. 5631, is one of three bills that address concerns that Iran is not holding up their end of the President’s Iran Nuclear Deal. The two others are: the U.S. Financial System Protection Act, H.R. 4992, and the No Heavy Water From Iran Act, H.R. 5119.
07.13.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) worked to protect health professional’s right to not participate in abortion procedures, and all Americans the option not to pay for abortion services. He issued this statement after co-sponsoring and voting for the Conscience Protection Act: “Healthcare is about saving lives, not taking them. No one should be forced to participate in an abortion procedure against their will or pay for them under their health insurance plan. Our Constitution guarantees our right of conscience, and Thomas Jefferson affirmed this when he stated, ‘No provision in our Constitution ought to be dearer to man than that which protects the rights of conscience.’ Today, we voted to enact the ConscienceProtection Act, thus protecting that right.” Background The Conscience Protection Act, S. 304, is a bill designed to defend the rights of health professionals who choose not to offer abortion services, and prohibits mandatory abortion healthcare coverage. Click HERE to read bill.
07.12.2016	Joining conservative colleagues, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) took action to regain Congressional authority taken away by government bureaucrats. He issued the following statement on the Separation of Powers Restoration Act (SOPRA), which helps stop federal agencies from interpreting ambiguous statutes or regulations: “In our Constitution ‘all’ legislative powers are given to Congress, not to unelected bureaucrats. Over time, the courts and Congress have ceded power to the executive departments and agencies, essentially establishing a ‘fourth branch’ of government. We’re working to restore the balance of power, so that government bureaucrats don’t continue wreaking havoc on businesses, families, and the American economy. This is a huge first step toward returning the power to the people and lessening the regulatory burden on our economy.” Background The Separation of Powers Restoration Act of 2016, H.R. 4768, empowers the courts to objectively review cases that challenge an agency’s rule, regulation, or statute rather than forcing the courts to side with a federal agency’s vague interpretation of their own rulemaking. Click HERE to read the bill.
07.11.2016	Fighting for limited government, economic freedom, and personal freedoms, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has received the FreedomFighter Award from FreedomWorks. Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement: “We have been working hard to advance conservative policies in Congress and restore the Constitutional limits of government. Organizations, such as FreedomWorks, are strong advocates of conservative policies and I appreciate their recognition for my efforts. We must continue to shift the momentum in our country, so our children and grandchildren will have a nation that is free, safe, and full of opportunity.” Background The FreedomFighter Award is given to U.S. Representatives with outstanding voting records in support of smaller government, lower taxes, free markets, personal liberty, and the rule of law.
07.07.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) stands with Speaker Ryan calling on the FBI Director to no longer provide former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton with any classified information. “When I served in the Intelligence community, if someone mishandled classified information, the first course of action was to strip their security clearance. Intentional or not, Hillary Clinton committed acts that put our nation's security at grave risk. I stand with Speaker Ryan in requesting that the Director of National Intelligence refrain from providing any classified information to Hillary Clinton.” Background Click HERE to read Speaker Ryan’s letter to FBI Director James Comey.
07.01.2016	The President has proposed a $10 gas tax on every barrel of oil, which would damage our economy and potentially put thousands of Americans out of work. Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement regarding House Concurrent Resolution 112: “American families continue to struggle to find work, put food on the table, and pay their bills. Instead of focusing on helping those hurting from our fragile economy, our President is proposing a new gas tax that would significantly raise fuel prices and cost some their jobs. Our economy runs on gasoline, which means when oil prices rise, so do groceries, utility bills, and much more. This tax directly takes money from the hardworking citizens, making it harder to make ends meet each week. “Congress has the sole authority of the purse, including raising revenue and spending taxpayer dollars – not the President. This tax is not only unconstitutional; it is detrimental to our economy. Americans deserve better, and that’s why I’m fighting to grow jobs, cut taxes, and provide more opportunity for all Americans.” To read the Resolution, click HERE.
06.28.2016	The President is pushing for a federal carbon tax which would skyrocket energy prices, causing many Americans to lose their jobs. Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement in support of a resolution to stop democrats from raising taxes on carbon released from fossil fuels: “The last thing that the federal government needs to do is to add more tax burdens on hardworking Americans. The President’s plan to tax carbon is yet another attempt to grow the government and cut private sector jobs. While environmental issues are important, the solution is not to make gas and electricity more expensive for consumers. Instead, we need to further encourage businesses to explore alternative energy options, so we can protect the environment and allow Americans to keep their hard-earned money in their pockets.” Background H.Con.Res.89 is a resolution opposing the implementation of a tax on carbon emissions from fossil fuels such as coal, petroleum, and natural gas.
06.17.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) continues to advance his agenda of reforming government and bringing accountability to federal agencies. Yesterday, the House voted 419-9 in favor of Loudermilk’s bill, “The NSF Major Research Facility Reform Act of 2016.” This bill imposes significant reforms to the National Science Foundation’s management research projects. Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement on his bill: “American taxpayers work hard for their money, and they deserve a government that is responsible with their tax dollars. Although the National Science Foundation invests in research projects vital to keeping America on the forefront of research and discovery, they have not exercised adequate oversight of many of these projects. This bill will require the NSF to implement project and financial management practices used by businesses across America.” To watch Rep. Loudermilk’s speech on this bill, Click HERE. Background The NSF Major Research Facility Reform Act of 2016, H.R. 5049, requires the NSF to conduct external cost proposals and bi-annual cost audits of all research projects. This legislation also restricts the usage of management fees going towards unallowable expenses, and subjects the NSF to a pilot program for enhancement of contractor protection. Click HERE to read the bill.
06.16.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) took immediate action to advance legislation that helps combat radical acts of terrorism. Passing the House today, the Countering Terrorist Radicalization Act combines three homeland security bills into one piece of legislation, including Rep. Loudermilk’s bill - the ALERT Act. "Any bloodshed in our homeland is way too much, and those with ties to any terror organization must be stopped,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Unfortunately, during Obama’s presidency, he has not taken this threat seriously and has not prioritized our national security. He has continually worked against House efforts to counter radical Islamic terrorism, threatening to veto bills that secure our borders and prevent terrorist organizations from exploiting the refugee program. “This week, the White House claimed that our country is ‘safer than it was eight years ago.’ Tell that to the families of those who died in the attacks on Chattanooga, San Bernardino, Garland, TX, Boston Marathon, Benghazi, Ft. Hood, Little Rock, and Orlando. Today, the House voted to, once again, take action to counter terrorism in our homeland by combining three bills that have previously passed with strong bi-partisan support. We must have this vital legislation in order to protect Americans against these perpetrators of evil.” Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, added, “Rep. Barry Loudermilk’s bill better safeguards our communities by providing local law enforcement with the tools to prepare for and defend against terror attacks. His leadership to counter the Islamist terror threat to our country has been instrumental.” Background This three-in-one bill is a collateral effort to better protect Americans from violent attacks, and addresses all forms of extremism - from homegrown terrorists to radical Islamic terrorists. The Countering Terrorist Radicalization Act enhances local law enforcement's involvement in fighting the war on terrorism, helps stop ISIS recruitment, and creates an advisory board to work on ways to prevent future attacks on the homeland.
06.01.2016	Governor Nikki Haley of South Carolina was recently questioned in a Homeland Security Oversight and Management Efficiency subcommittee hearing. Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) questioned Governor Haley about the dangers of transferring Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States. Click here to watch Rep. Loudermilk's questions and remarks “Guantanamo Bay is working. The world’s most dangerous terrorists sit in those cells, isolated from the rest of the world for our safety and protection. No prisoner has ever escaped from Gitmo, but instead of insisting they stay, our President wants to move them into our backyards,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “There are certain things that this president and this administration does that baffles a whole lot of us. Being baffled is one thing, but putting your life, your liberty, and your family in jeopardy is a totally different thing. I cannot understand why we want to change something that is working and put our citizens at risk.”
05.26.2016	The National Retail Federation (NRF) has named Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) a “Hero of Main Street” for supporting legislation critical to the retail industry such as infrastructure investment, international trade, tax reform, and labor issues. The "Hero of Main Street" award was created by NRF in 2013 to recognize members of Congress for their support of the retail industry’s public policy priorities. Eligibility is based on the NRF’s Retail Opportunity Index, bill sponsorship, and advocacy. The “heroes” have supported policies and initiatives defined by NRF that recognize the contributions of the retail industry and have worked to encourage a “vibrant, sustained, and healthy” retail sector. "Our retailers, mom-and-pop store owners to large and small businesses across America, are the real heroes of Main Street," said Rep. Loudermilk. "They are more than just merchants; they are an integral part of our communities. I am honored to be recognized for my efforts to support these business owners and entrepreneurs who are the backbone of the American free market system." “Representative Loudermilk has shown through his support that he cares about retailers big and small and values the role these businesses play in communities across the country,” said NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay. “He is an advocate for his thriving Main Street, and to the long-term growth of the retail industry - our nation’s largest job creators and the catalyst for continued growth and opportunity for our nation’s economy.”
05.25.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) announced that ten students from Georgia’s 11th District have received nominations to attend a U.S. military service academies. “Every year, we are blessed to send some of our most talented students to attend our nation’s prestigious service academies, and this year is no different,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “These students have all demonstrated an outstanding commitment to academics and community service, and we wish them all the best as they represent Georgia’s 11th District at service academies throughout our nation.” Each year, students from across the nation may apply for nominations by members of Congress to attend U.S. military service academies. All appointees are awarded a full four-year scholarship. Rep. Loudermilk will hold a reception in honor of this year’s appointees on Friday, June 17, 2016 at Acworth Beach House. The 2016 appointments from the 11th Congressional District are as follows: U.S. Merchant Marine Academy • Joshua McMahon - Acworth, Marietta High School U.S. Air Force Academy • Payton Chester - Cartersville, Cass High School • Madison McMahan - Canton, University of North Georgia • Nicholas Searcy - Woodstock, Etowah High School • Juanita Londono Henao - Marietta, U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School U.S. Naval Academy • Edward Jones - Atlanta, The Westminster School • Julia Morrow - Woodstock, Cherokee Christian School U.S. Military Academy • Kamryn Brinson - Kennesaw, The Marist School • John Erskine - Powder Springs, Kennesaw Mountain High School • Palmer Fields - Kennesaw, Allatoona High School Additional information about the military academy nomination process and how to apply is available online at Loudermilk.house.gov.
05.19.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement after voting to support our military: “We owe it to our military to fully support their efforts. Every day they sacrifice so much for our freedoms, and they need to know we are giving them the tools, resources, and support they require to do their jobs. This years’ National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) enhances our nation’s military overall and enriches our district’s defense efforts and economy. “The NDAA keeps Dobbins Air Reserve Base open, re-initiates the F-22 Raptor Program by assessing the feasibility of restarting production, and provides our troops with a 2.1 percent pay raise. This legislation also keeps the world’s most dangerous terrorists out of our backyards, isolated at Guantamo Bay. Helping tighten readiness gaps, upgrading equipment and tools, and offering better healthcare to our troops are all things included in this NDAA package." To read a thorough summary of the NDAA, click HERE.
05.18.2016	With the recent discovery of natural gas off the coast of Israel, Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) took the republican lead on an amendment authorizing the U.S. to help protect Israel’s coastline and gas infrastructure from attacks. The Israel Maritime Assistance amendment enables the procurement of the David’s Sling weapon system for the purposes of intercepting short-range missiles, promoting Israel’s inclusion in naval exercises, increasing visits of U.S. naval vessels to Israeli ports, and researching for the continued development of advanced maritime domain awareness capabilities. “The discovery of vast offshore natural gas resources in Israel’s exclusive economic zone is a major advancement for Israel’s economy, national security, and energy independence,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “However, these vital resources also pose a major security risk for Israel. The Tamar and Leviathan gas fields are vulnerable to attack by Iranian-sponsored terrorists operating in Lebanon and Gaza. This bill would help secure these valuable resources for our closest ally in the Middle East, and provide a viable source of natural gas for our allies.” “Further coordination between the U.S. and Israel will help to lessen dependence on foreign oil and bolster global energy security,” said Rep. Brian Higgins, a member of the House Committees on Foreign Affairs and Homeland Security.
05.16.2016	As Chairman of the Science Oversight Subcommittee, Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) exposed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), an independent government agency created to maintain stability and public confidence in the nation's financial system. He issued the following statement after questioning FDIC officials responsible for overseeing thousands of American’s private information: “Unfortunately, the FDIC is failing to live up to its mission of maintaining public confidence in the nation’s financial system because the agency is failing to safeguard private banking information. During my subcommittee’s current investigation, it has become clear that FDIC has a long history of cybersecurity incidents. “Among the security breaches reported in FDIC’s recent letter to the Committee was one that involved an FDIC employee. They copied sensitive personal identifiable information (PII) for over 10,000 individuals onto a portable storage device prior to separating from employment at the FDIC. Further, the FDIC did not report the incident to Congress within the seven-day time period as required by the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA). In fact, FDIC waited for over four months to report the incident to Congress and only did so after being prompted by the FDIC Office of Inspector General. In another incident reported at the same time, a disgruntled FDIC employee obtained sensitive data for 44,000 individuals prior to separating from employment at the agency. “It is Congress’ responsibility to shine a light on FDIC’s history of cybersecurity breaches. The Committee will continue its oversight of FDIC’s failures to secure American’s sensitive information. We expect the agency to take full responsibility for their actions, and work towards regaining America’s trust.” To watch Rep. Loudermilk question FDIC employees, click the link below: Click here to WATCH video.
05.13.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will join the Georgia National Guard, Defense Commissary Agency, and others for the grand opening of the Military Family Support Center on Saturday, May 21, 2016 at the Marietta Plaza. The Military Family Support Center will serve the needs of military families from across the north Georgia region. Joined by Senator Johnny Isakson and others from the Georgia delegation, Rep. Loudermilk will offer his support of the new commissary and what it will do to help our military families. This event will include a hot dog cookout followed by a ribbon cutting ceremony beginning promptly at 12:45 p.m. Leased by the Cobb County Chamber of Commerce, the Military Family Support Center will operate as an off-base commissary with businesses chipping in resources and services free-of-charge. It will offer active duty military and retired veterans various services at discounted rates. The Center is an entirely new concept – the first of its kind. What: Grand Opening & Ribbon Cutting for Military Family Support Center Who: Georgia National Guard in partnership with the Defense Commissary Agency and the Cobb Chamber of Commerce When: Saturday, May 21, 2016 | 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Where: Marietta Plaza 1901 Terrell Mill Road, Suite 200 Marietta, GA 30067
05.09.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) has announced the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for the 11th District at the Downtown Gallery in Cartersville. Elizabeth Sutton, who attends Kennesaw Mountain High School, won the grand prize for her piece called “Home.” “The artwork we received this year was truly awe-inspiring and an incredible testament to the creative talent right here in Georgia’s 11th District,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “I am so proud of each and every one of this year’s contestants, and I look forward to seeing the award-winning artwork in the halls of the U.S. Capitol.” In the 2016 competition, a total of 47 entries were submitted from 11 schools across Georgia’s 11th Congressional District. The winning artwork was hand-selected by an independent panel of local artists, and featured as part of a special exhibition at the Downtown Gallery in Cartersville. 2016 Congressional Art Competition Results: First Place Student: Elizabeth Sutton Art Piece: “Home” (Prismacolor pencils) School: Kennesaw Mountain High Instructor: Lauren Davis Second Place Student: Allison Vagase Art Piece: “Deuce” (Acrylic paint & collaged sheet music) School: Cartersville High School Instructor: Alicia Murray Third Place Student: Sara Zimmerman Art Piece: “Deforestation” (Watercolor and pen on watercolor paper) School: Kennesaw Mountain High School Instructor: Lauren Davis Honorable Mention #1 Student: Katharyn Kampovsky Art Piece: “E-Street” (Graphite) School: Creekview High School Instructor: Linda Nicholson Honorable Mention #2 Student: Leah Ruff Art Piece: “Beauty vs. Poverty” (Water color) School: Cherokee High School Instructor: Chris Lambert This year’s winner, Elizabeth Sutton, received an art scholarship and two airline tickets to Washington D.C. for the official awards ceremony this summer. Click HERE to view the photo gallery from this year’s art competition.
05.03.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on his support of the End Executive Overreach Act: “During our nation’s founding, James Madison expressed his fear that one branch of the federal government could accumulate too much power when he said, ‘The accumulation of all powers, legislative, executive, and judiciary, in the same hands…may justly be pronounced the very definition of tyranny.’ This is exactly what the administration is attempting to do, and I will not let up until this power grab is stopped. “The ‘End Executive Overreach Act’ will reassert Congress’ power of the purse by defunding all new executive orders until the next president takes office. This bill will eliminate this administration’s ability to force enormous, harmful regulations onto the backs of hardworking taxpayers by suspending all agency regulatory authority through January 20, 2017. “This greatly needed measure is the answer to a problem years in the making – an administration that inserts itself into every aspect of our daily lives. Sometimes the best government is one that governs the least, a foreign concept to the current administration. I am an original co-sponsor of this bill, which will restore lawmaking authority to the legislative branch - for which it was intended - and reassert the people’s control over their own government.”
04.27.2016	ACU Chairman Matt Schlapp and Rep. Loudermilk Washington D.C. (April 27, 2016) | The American Conservative Union (ACU) recognized Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) at a ceremony held at the U.S. Capitol today for his support of legislation that advances a strong conservative agenda. Rep. Loudermilk received the Conservative Excellence Award for his 96 percent rating on the ACU’s 2015 congressional scorecard. “Representative Barry Loudermilk is a man of strong faith, who is an effective voice for the voters of Georgia’s 11th District,” said ACU Chairman Matt Schlapp. “He understands America's founding principles enshrined in the Constitution, that the government should only do what it must, and that the American people are in charge. Whether it is defending life, supporting a strong family, strengthening our national security or fighting President Obama, Barry Loudermilk is an ally in the fight for conservative values.” “The success of our nation – and the future of our children and grandchildren – depends upon policies that champion the principles of liberty, personal responsibility, and limited government,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “I would like to thank the ACU for this recognition, and for their steadfast commitment to preserving our constitutionally protected rights and individual liberties.” Founded in 1964, the American Conservative Union is recognized nationwide as one of the premier organizations dedicated to promoting conservative principles such as liberty, personal responsibility, national security, and traditional values.
04.27.2016	Washington D.C. (April 27, 2016) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will announce the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition at the Downtown Gallery in Cartersville on Friday, May 6, 2016 at 7:00 p.m. The Congressional Art Competition recognizes the artistic talent of high school students throughout Georgia’s 11th Congressional District. All artwork submitted for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition will be featured as part of a special exhibition at the Downtown Gallery from April 26 – May 6, 2016. In addition, the first place artwork from each congressional district will be displayed at the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. WHAT: 2016 Congressional Art Competition Reception and Awards Ceremony WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk WHEN: Friday, May 6, 2016 | 7:00 p.m. WHERE: The Downtown Gallery 13 North Wall Street Cartersville, GA 30120
04.21.2016	The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) awards large cash bonuses to its employees every year, though most everyday American families struggle just to make ends meet. In response, Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement in regard to legislation that will put more money back into the pockets of the taxpayers: “While most Americans are living paycheck to paycheck, they are being forced to fork out $86 million worth of cash bonuses to IRS employees. With that much money, the State of Georgia could feed 110,000 families of four for an entire month. “We need to put the taxpayers first – not government bureaucrats. Every day, families are working hard to ensure their children go to bed fed, get a good education, and live healthy, happy lives. After all, Americans just want to provide for those they love. My constituents sent me to Washington to fight for them, and that’s what I’m doing. We shouldn’t be spending millions of dollars on IRS employee bonuses when most lower and middle-income families can’t afford to take a vacation. Taxpayers should not sacrifice their hard-earned wages so federal employees can have a generous bonus at the end of the year.” Background The Banning IRS Bonuses Act, H.R. 4890, prohibits the U.S. Department of Treasury from giving IRS employees bonuses, awards, or cash payments until the Treasury provides a comprehensive customer service strategy to Congress. This plan must incorporate private sector best practices and taxpayer expectations, identify self-service opportunities, and include proposals for current and future fiscal years.
04.21.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) joins fiscal conservatives in keeping the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) accountable by holding government employees to the same standards as other workers. Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement: “The IRS is notorious for violating public trust, and this must stop. Over the years, the IRS has been involved in countless rogue activities. Many IRS employees aren’t even filing their taxes or meeting government-wide performance standards. Instead of being held to the same standards as everyone else, IRS employees who have knowingly engaged in acts of misconduct are simply rehired. “This week, the House passed the Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act. This legislation prevents the IRS from employing or rehiring individuals with a track record of questionable character or bad behavior. This type of conduct should not be tolerated and should never be rewarded, especially in positions such as the IRS.” Background The Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act, H.R. 3724, prohibits the IRS from rehiring an employee that has been fired for certain forms of misconduct. This ban would apply to former IRS employees who were removed for unacceptable performance, unpaid taxes, destroying essential government documents, and more.
04.20.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) delivered a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today calling for the impeachment of IRS Commissioner John Koskinen for violating the public trust. Click here to watch Rep. Loudermilk's full remarks “Instead of responding to Congress’ subpoena, the IRS destroyed over 24,000 documents (evidence of targeting conservative groups) but, today, Mr. Koskinen is still the Commissioner of the IRS,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “There are two types of enforcement of laws in this nation: one for the citizen and one for the government official. You see, the Sarbanes-Oxley catch-all that's been used to successfully prosecute people for destruction of documents and other evidence, excludes government agencies. The American people deserve justice; and, thankfully Congress has the power to impeach those who continually violate the public trust.”
04.19.2016	With continuous pressure from Representative Barry Loudermilk and others, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has decided to reverse course on a job-killing regulation. If implemented, the new EPA regulation would have seriously stifled business at local raceways in Georgia and across the nation. During a recent Science, Space & Technology Oversight subcommittee hearing, Chairman Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) questioned witnesses on the Environmental Protection Agency’s new regulations targeting amateur racecar drivers and parts suppliers - an industry that supports American small business, manufacturing and technology. Watch the full video HERE “In addition to the major raceways throughout our country, there are hundreds of smaller local tracks that would have been devastated by this new regulation,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “The Dixie Speedway, in my district in Woodstock, Georgia, is a popular community track that brings in 150,000 visitors each year. If the EPA had used this regulation to dismantle the race equipment manufacturing industry, drivers at tracks like these would have been unable to find many of the parts that they needed for their cars. If local tracks, like Dixie Speedway, were to go out of business, our communities would be the losers. “I was greatly frustrated by the covert manner in which the EPA attempted to sneak in this new regulation – behind the backs of the American people. The EPA buried this new provision in a proposed rule on medium and heavy-duty trucks, which had absolutely no relevance to amateur auto racing. When we uncovered their scheme, we had to slam the breaks on this new government regulation, so I led the fight to stop it. In addition to shining a light on the EPA’s plan, I am co-sponsoring legislation to protect the racing industry, as well as using the power of the purse to defund their efforts. “Thankfully, with this pressure, the EPA has decided to scrap their unwarranted regulations – a victory for industry and small business in Georgia and throughout the nation.” For more information on the hearing, including witness testimony and the archived webcast, please visit the committee website.
04.16.2016	Joining other conservative house members, Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) took action to stop terrorists from entering the U.S. by strengthening the technology used in screening international travelers against law enforcement databases and terror watch lists. Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement in response to the passage of the legislation: “When traveling overseas as part of a special Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, I witnessed how our international allies’ traveler vetting process was not up to 21st century security standards. Through a series of loopholes, terrorists could easily exploit these frail technology systems as an avenue to get into our country and carry out attacks on U.S. citizens, like the recent attacks in Brussels. We must use existing resources to help ramp up our allies’ technology systems to stop terrorists before they reach American soil. “The Enhancing Overseas Traveler Vetting Act, which has passed the House, takes escalating terror threats seriously and enhances our efforts to keep terrorists out of our country. This measure doesn’t cost the taxpayers a dime; it simply reallocates our security assets to more effectively combat terrorism. We all want a safe and secure America, and this legislation will help improve our national security.” Background The Enhancing Overseas Traveler Vetting Act, H.R. 4403, creates updated, open-source software, mirrored after high-quality vetting tools, which helps our foreign partners screen travelers against terrorist watch lists and verify traveler ID. This legislation will also allow the U.S. to provide technical assistance and training to our overseas allies seeking to improve their systems in order to protect both U.S. and international borders.
04.14.2016	Washington D.C. (April 14, 2016) |Congressman Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will participate in the Service Academy Day to be held at Dobbins Air Reserve Base on Saturday, April 30, 2016. This annual event is open to all 8th – 12th grade students who are interested in attending one of the nation’s service academies. “If you're a student or know a student who is interested in attending a military service academy, this is a must-attend event,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Aspiring students will be able to meet face-to-face with service academy representatives, and learn more about the academy nomination process. Attending a military service academy is a life-changing experience, and I look forward to meeting students from all across our district who want to join the ranks of this elite group of scholars.” U.S. service academies represented will include: the Air Force Academy, the Coast Guard Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Military Academy, and the Naval Academy. Due to security requirements at the base, all attendees, including parents, must register online with Sen. Johnny Isakson’s office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Friday, April 22, 2016 at https://www.isakson.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/sad-registration. WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Sen. Johnny Isakson, and members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation WHAT: Service Academy Day WHEN: Saturday, April 30, 2016 | 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. WHERE: Dobbins Air Reserve Base, Hanger 5 1291 Cobb Parkway South Marietta, GA 30067 For more information on applying to a U.S. Service Academy, contact Rep. Loudermilk’s academy coordinator, Crystal Gilbert, at 770-429-1776 or email crystal.gilbert@mail.house.gov.
04.14.2016	Today, the House took a clear step in restoring its oversight and fiscal control over one regulatory agency. Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA), an outspoken advocate of reining in regulatory agencies and eliminating government waste, stood in support of the Financial Stability Oversight Council Reform Act, a measure which reins in a Dodd-Frank agency that has repeatedly tried to apply excessive red tape to our economy. Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement on this responsible, cost-saving measure: “When you remove the chains of government bureaucracy and let the free market work, innovators can innovate, creators can create, and hardworking Americans can prosper. However, our government continues to encroach upon virtually every aspect of our personal lives and our businesses. Created by Dodd Frank, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) continues to suppress job creation by adding layers of new regulations without any congressional oversight or accountability. “With no spending controls, this agency has grown six times larger than it was five years ago, allowing it to inflict excessive regulations, which are harming our job creators. With a mounting $19 trillion national debt, we need to remove regulatory barricades that keep us from having a healthy economy. With the passage of this Act, Congress will have control over the budget of this runaway agency, which will allow businesses and families to have more direct access to needed financial services. It’s time to get America back on track and allow our citizens and businesses to thrive.” Background The Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) Reform Act, H.R. 3340, gives Congress power over the Financial Stability Oversight Council’s budget, which increases congressional oversight. It also requires FSOC to make quarterly reports to Congress and ensures that, before any rule or regulation is initiated, the FSOC must give a 90 day public notice and comment period.
04.06.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on today’s release of the U.S. Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule: “Today, the U.S. Secretary of Labor joined with liberal Democrats to release the highly controversial fiduciary rule, which would be devastating to consumers and retirement planners nationwide. This rule, which has been in development for many years, was withdrawn in 2010 because of an outpouring of opposition; unfortunately, this year’s rule is no better. “After meeting with consumers and retirement planners throughout my district, I know that the implementation of this rule will result in enormous compliance costs, which would be passed on to consumers in need of retirement advice. To make matters worse, this rule will force retirement advisors to cut their staff, and will result in certain types of retirement advice being virtually eliminated as an option for many of Americans who are already struggling financially. It is time for the administration to stop its ideological crusade against the free market economy, and put the needs of the people first. "Last year, I co-sponsored and worked to pass the Retail Investor Protection Act to restrict the administration’s ability to finalize this rule, and I hope the Senate will quickly pass this critically important bill. I am doing everything I can to stop the fiduciary rule from being enforced, and I have already taken action by urging my colleagues in control of Labor Department funding to allow no taxpayer dollars to be used to implement this burdensome regulation. We cannot stand by when the administration is regulating our businesses into the ground, especially when it will have such a crushing impact on consumers throughout Georgia. At a time when every citizen is born owing $60,000 in government debt, we must make it easier, not harder, for every American to save for retirement.”
03.30.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) welcomed his second granddaughter, Lydia Grace Loudermilk, into the world just after 9:00 p.m. on Monday. “Our family is overjoyed with the birth of our second granddaughter," said Rep. Loudermilk. "Children are a gift from God, and we are blessed with a growing family.”
03.24.2016	The day after the terror attacks in Brussels, Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) made an impassioned plea before his colleagues in the Homeland Security Committee to end political correctness and take immediate action on bills that will help keep America safe. Watch Rep. Loudermilk’s comments here “Political correctness is killing Americans,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “The White House needs to begin prioritizing Americans over protecting the feelings of terrorists – I’ve had it with political correctness.” During yesterday’s markup hearing, the Homeland Security Committee advanced seven bills to protect the safety and security of all Americans. All seven bills were voted out of the Committee and are ready for the House floor. Two of those bills, H.R. 4698 and H.R. 4820, are specifically aimed at bolstering America’s counterterrorism defenses.
03.22.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today regarding the terrorist attacks in Brussels, Belgium: “Innocent lives were lost today – someone’s daughter, husband, and grandparent were taken by the hands of heartless ISIS suicide bombers. What happened on Brussels’ soil will soon happen again in America; it’s only a matter of time. ISIS has made it clear that we are their primary target and, ‘What will be coming is worse.’ No longer are these types of attacks isolated to the Middle East and Europe, but Garland, Texas, Chattanooga, Tennessee and San Bernardino, California provide clear evidence that ISIS, Al-Qaeda, and other terrorist organizations are targeting innocent American citizens. We will not succumb to fear, and we certainly will never surrender to those who viciously murder our loved ones without a second thought. Neither will we sacrifice our precious liberties to the threats of Islamic extremists. Americans have always fought against oppression and tyranny, and we will never stop fighting for freedom, for liberty, or what is right. “As a member of the special Congressional Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, I have worked tirelessly to uncover and fix vulnerabilities in our national security. As a result of our investigations, we have successfully removed loopholes in the State Department’s Visa Waiver Program to stop would-be terrorists from exploiting the program to enter the United States. The U.S. intelligence community has indicated that individuals linked to terrorism in Syria have already attempted to enter our country as refugees. In November of last year, the House passed the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act. This bill requires the nation’s top security officials to certify that potential Syrian and Iraqi refugees do not represent a security threat, before allowing them into the United States. This bill has been stalled in the Senate because the president has promised to veto the legislation. Earlier this month, we passed the ALERT Act, a bill which I authored, that removes existing bureaucratic obstacles that inhibit the effective engagement of state and local law enforcement in combating terrorism. Both of these bills must continue to be a top priority of this Congress. “Unfortunately, our greatest obstacle in combating terrorism in our own country are the priorities of this president, which are counterproductive to our national security. Just last week, I questioned the Secretary of Homeland Security about the president’s proposal to cut $599 million from the Department of Homeland Security’s terrorism preparedness efforts while fully funding climate initiatives. Last month, I introduced an amendment to the FAA’s reauthorization legislation that moved $20 million from climate research to aviation safety. Since this president has been in office, the FAA’s climate research budget has increased by 800 percent, but the budget for aviation safety only increased by 7 percent. “ISIS and its radicalized followers may be determined to see our destruction, but we are determined to see theirs. This is not the first time our country has faced perilous times, and it won’t be the last. We remain committed to standing firm in our resolve to always protect our own and help shield our allies against attacks of the enemy. Americans are fearless and courageous, and we will stop at nothing to defeat terrorism. My prayers and thoughts go out to each and every one who is grieving the loss of those killed by the attacks in Brussels earlier this morning.” If anyone in the 11th Congressional District has friends or family working or traveling in Brussels and needs help contacting their loved ones, please call Rep. Loudermilk’s main district office at 770-429-1776 ext. 204 or email Crystal Gilbert at crystal.gilbert@mail.house.gov. Due to the magnitude of this emergency, the office will be available to provide assistance.
03.17.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) joined with several conservatives in passing H. Res. 639, a resolution authorizing the Speaker of the House to appear as amicus curiae on behalf of the House of Representatives regarding the pending Supreme Court case, United States, et al. v. Texas, et al. Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement regarding the resolution: “This is about protecting the Constitution and the separation of powers; it’s about Congress taking back its constitutional authority. By authorizing Speaker Ryan to appear as amicus curiae, it sends a strong message to the Supreme Court that Congress means business. Our legislative body will no longer tolerate the president’s executive overreach in creating and implementing law. That’s our job, not his – the Constitution makes that very clear. I’m proud to be among other conservatives in Congress who are devoted to returning to an orderly policymaking process and restoring our constitutional authority to govern.” H. Res. 639 passed the House by a vote of 234 to 186.
03.16.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) will present the Congressional Badge of Bravery to a local hero, long-serving DeKalb County Police Officer Tony Luong, on Friday, March 18, 2016 at Rep. Loudermilk’s district office in Atlanta. Awarded by the U.S. Attorney General’s office, the Congressional Badge of Bravery is presented to federal, state, and local law enforcement for demonstrating exceptional bravery in the line of duty. Officer Luong, a Cobb County resident, will receive this distinct honor for his courageous efforts to stop an armed robbery in DeKalb County on December 23, 2014. As part of a standoff with two heavily armed suspects, Officer Luong sustained a bullet wound to the leg prior to apprehending one of the suspects and taking him into custody. Another suspect was captured after a four-hour manhunt and the assistance of surrounding police jurisdictions. “During this incident, Officer Luong showed uncommon courage in the face of imminent danger by protecting DeKalb County residents against a violent home invasion,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “It is a great honor for me to present Officer Luong with this well-deserved medal, and I commend him for his dedication to protecting fellow citizens. WHAT: WHEN: WHERE: Congressional Badge of Bravery Ceremony Friday, March 18, 2016 10:00 a.m. EST Office of Congressman Loudermilk 600 Galleria Pkwy, Suite 120 Atlanta, GA 30339 The Media is invited to attend this ceremony.
03.16.2016	On February 26, 2016, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell urging him to postpone the confirmation of a successor for Justice Antonin Scalia until after the upcoming presidential election. In response to the president’s Supreme Court nomination today, Rep. Loudermilk issued the following statement: “One of the pivotal decisions of our lifetime will be who succeeds Justice Antonin Scalia on the U.S. Supreme Court. We are facing several critical decisions that will potentially change the course of our future, and we must ensure the nominee stands firmly on the Constitution. While the president is given constitutional authority to nominate Supreme Court Justices, the Senate has the responsibility of whether or not to confirm the nominee. “We must not be rushed into this critical decision for political expediency, nor for the sake of the president’s political legacy. With so much at stake, I and others have urged Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to stand firm on his promise of not confirming a successor until a new president takes office.” To view Rep. Loudermilk’s letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, click here.
03.15.2016	Washington D.C. (March 15, 2016) |The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) named Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) a “Taxpayer Super Hero” today for his strong support of legislation that safeguards the interests of American taxpayers. Rep. Loudermilk represents one of only 17 congressional lawmakers to receive a perfect 100 percent score in CCAGW’s 2015 Congressional ratings. “Americans work hard for their money and deserve to keep more of it,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “As a family man and a small business owner for over 20 years, I know firsthand the struggles of hardworking Americans who are overburdened by excessive government spending and regulations. Our future generations deserve much better than what is being passed down to them, and I look forward to continuing the fight to get our fiscal house back in order.” Since 1989, the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste has issued an annual legislative report that highlights the voting records of all 535 members of Congress. Lawmakers are assigned ratings based on their support of legislation that saves taxpayer money and protects America’s long-term fiscal interests. In 2015, CCAGW scored 100 votes in the House and 35 votes in the Senate. “We applaud and wholeheartedly thank Rep. Loudermilk for his hard work on behalf of the taxpayers during his first year serving in Congress,” said CCAGW President Tom Schatz. “His courageous votes to cut wasteful spending and make government more accountable should serve as an example to other members, encouraging them to make good on their promises to protect the fiscal interests of American taxpayers.” “We have no doubt that Rep. Loudermilk will continue to help lead the effort to end wasteful spending and reduce the growing national debt,” added Schatz. “His constituents should be very proud of him.” Founded in 1984, Citizens Against Government Waste represents the nation’s largest nonpartisan, nonprofit organization committed to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government.
03.09.2016	During a recent Energy and Oversight Subcommittee hearing, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) questioned the Executive Director of the Department of Energy (DOE) Loan programs Office, Mark McCall, on the risks associated with the Department of Energy’s (DOE) controversial program to provide federal loan guarantees to green energy companies. Watch Rep. Loudermilk’s full exchange with DOE officials by clicking HERE or on the video below. “Several years into this experiment, it is becoming clear these efforts have wasted vast amounts of taxpayer dollars; yet, in August 2015, the President announced that the Department of Energy's Loan Program Office would make an additional $1 billion in loan guarantees available for commercial scale distributed energy projects. This committee welcomes and embraces new businesses and technologies, but it is important that they be brought to commercial scale by market forces, not political whims,” said Rep. Loudermilk. Background According to Government Accountability Office (GAO) estimates, the total cost for the current loan portfolio is $2.2 billion. As part of the stimulus in 2009, Congress temporarily expanded the loan guarantee program, and gave DOE another $2.4 billion to subsidize the costs of loan guarantees. DOE rushed loan applications and caved to political pressure from the White House, issuing $16 billion in loan guarantees to 26 projects, including to the solar energy company Solyndra, which defaulted on a $500 million loan guarantee. Committee members asked the new executive director of DOE’s Loan Program Office, Mark McCall, if he would commit to a higher level of transparency and provide the Science Committee with email communications surrounding loan decisions. Mr. McCall was unwilling to commit to providing these documents that would expose how decisions are made concerning billions of taxpayer dollars. For more information about the hearing, including witness testimony and the archived webcast, please visit the Committee’s website.
03.04.2016	Washington D.C. (March 4, 2016) |Rep. Barry Loudermilk’s (R-GA) bill, the ALERT Act, which has passed the House, removes bureaucratic barriers and paves the way for the federal government to enhance state and local law enforcement's involvement in fighting the war on terrorism. Rep. Loudermilk delivered the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in favor of the bill: Click here to watch Rep. Loudermilk's full remarks "As we are moving into a new era of terrorism that directly threatens our own communities, we must re-evaluate how we meet these threats,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “That’s why I introduced the ALERT Act, to provide training, improve coordination, and increase community awareness of the foreign fighter threat. As the threats against America by radical Islamists increases, fighting terrorism cannot be a singular effort, conducted by one element of our federal government; it requires the cooperation and coordination of multiple levels of all governments and local community participation." Background on the ALERT Act: H.R. 4401, the Amplifying Local Efforts to Root out Terrorism Act of 2016, authorizes the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to train State and major urban area fusion centers (local and state law enforcement personnel) in the most effective tactics and methods used to counter terrorism. It also provides increased community awareness of ongoing terrorist threats, and directs DHS to notify Congress on the number of security clearances they issue to state and local law enforcement communities. To read a full transcript of Rep. Loudermilk’s floor speech, click here.
03.03.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today moved to require the federal government to live within its means by introducing a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution. “Instead of steamrolling American families with heavy tax and regulatory burdens every year, the federal government must change its reckless ways, and stop the vicious cycle of spending that risks our nation’s long-term fiscal stability and buries our next generation under an unsustainable mountain of debt. “Many states, including Georgia, operate under a balanced budget, and do not spend more than they take in. This responsible approach to budgeting should be mandatory at the federal level as well, especially as our national debt continues to climb toward $20 trillion. That is why I, and other conservatives, have joined together in proposing a much-needed balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution. This ten-year plan gives Congress the time it needs to get its financial house in order and come up with long-term solutions to tackling our out-of-control spending. The time to turn the page on Congress’ reckless spending is now – not later, when our grandchildren are handed the bill.” The proposed balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution would take effect in the 10th fiscal year after its ratification. In addition to the balanced budget provision, this amendment requires a two-thirds vote in each chamber of Congress to increase the deficit or raise federal spending levels beyond 18 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) for the previous calendar year. This amendment will prevent the federal government from continuously absorbing higher amounts of revenue relative to the economy. If enacted, the balanced balanced amendment would require an average annual spending reduction of $54 billion of our current $4 trillion budget, if revenues remain stable – amounting to a modest 1.4 percent reduction each year. For more information on H.J.Res. 85, click here.
03.02.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) supports a Texas law that saves the lives of women and children. A new Supreme Court case, Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstdt, challenges a Texas law that holds abortion clinics to the same standards as any other medical facility. The Texas law aims to end the cut-and-run abortion system currently in place. To protect women and children, Rep. Loudermilk joined Conservative Members of Congress, including Sen. Ted Cruz and Sen. John Cornyn, in submitting an Amicus Brief to the Supreme Court in support of upholding the Texas legislation. Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstdt disputes a Texas law where two provisions enhance safety measures in abortion clinics. It requires abortionists to have admitting privileges to a full-scale hospital within 30 miles of their abortion clinics, and ensures that a surgical center is in every clinic. “The abortion industry in America claims to protect women’s health; however, when Texas passed a law to ensure the safety of women, the industry filed suit to reverse this law in the courts," said Rep. Loudermilk. "All lives matter, both the born and unborn and we should be making every effort to protect the lives and safety of all. That is why my colleagues and I sent an Amicus Brief to the Supreme Court, petitioning on the behalf of the vulnerable. My hope is that our Justices would carefully review Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstdt, and rule in favor of the Texas law. This is about saving lives, not about partisan politics. Protecting women and children should come first.” Pro-life defender, Sen. Cruz stated, “Those who advocate for abortion often claim that it should be ‘safe, legal, and rare.’ Unfortunately, abortion is not always ‘safe’ for women.” The case was heard before the Fifth Circuit of Appeals this past summer, and is now under review by the U.S. Supreme Court.
02.26.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after submitting a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell encouraging the Senate to stand firm in their decision to wait until after the next presidential election to fill the vacancy on the U.S. Supreme Court: “It is now in the hands of the Senate to confirm a new successor for Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia - one armed with the highest integrity, exemplary character, and most noble commitment to the pursuit of justice, within the confines of the powers prescribed to the judicial branch by our Constitution. “Since Congress has made it a top priority to reestablish the balance of Constitutional authority, we must not be rushed into this critical decision for political expediency, nor for the sake of the president’s political legacy. While some argue that this untimely vacancy creates a Constitutional crisis between the executive and legislative branches, we believe that our nation has already been in such a crisis, evidenced by frequent acts of executive overreach. “Justice Scalia devoted his entire life to serving justice in accordance to the Constitution; and replacing this brilliant scholar is a weighty responsibility. The critical decisions facing our nation’s highest court will have a lasting impact on future generations, and will determine whether our nation stays true to the Constitutional republic our founders intended. As the future of our nation hangs in the balance, I urge Senate Majority Leader McConnell to hold fast to his promise of not confirming a successor until a new president takes office.” Rep. Loudermilk’s full letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell can be viewed here.
02.24.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk’s (R-GA) bill to add historically significant property to Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park passed the House of Representatives today. Rep. Loudermilk delivered the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in favor of the bill: Click here to watch Rep. Loudermilk's full remarks “It is extremely important that we understand our history, otherwise we will be destined to repeat the mistakes of our past,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Today, Congress took a significant step toward preserving two pieces of property at Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park that are essential parts of our nation’s heritage and Civil War history. Sites such as these allow us to look back in time to get a glimpse of the events that shaped our nation.” Background on H.R. 3371: H.R. 3371, the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act of 2015, is an effort to authorize the park to acquire the Wallis House and Harriston Hill from Cobb County by donation. Located near the intersection of Burnt Hickory Road and Ernest Barrett Parkway in Marietta, Georgia, these sites are critical to understanding the events that took place in the Civil War during Union General William Sherman’s campaign to take Atlanta in 1864. The bill has also been introduced by U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), and is co-sponsored by four other Georgia members of the House of Representatives. To read a full transcript of Rep. Loudermilk’s floor speech, click here.
02.23.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on Congressional Republicans’ amicus brief to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in support of the plaintiffs in State of West Virginia et al v. EPA: “The EPA’s regulations on new and existing power plants would be devastating to our economy if they are implemented. In my home state of Georgia alone, electricity prices would be expected to increase by 12 percent; and, with the average American household already spending $15,000 a year on hidden regulatory taxes, the Clean Power Plan is simply unworkable. "Earlier this month, the Supreme Court took an encouraging step in this case by placing a stay on these damaging regulations - the first time in history that the Supreme Court has halted a regulation being reviewed by a federal appeals court. "Today, I joined my fellow Republicans in Congress in submitting an amicus brief to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia to support the petitioners in the case, in hopes that the court will overturn the Clean Power Plan. The brief argues that the Obama Administration has exceeded its legal authority in making these rules, and it is time for Congress to reclaim its lawmaking powers under the Constitution. "Only Congress has the power to make new laws, not the executive branch - and it is time for our federal judicial system to acknowledge that the EPA has overstepped its bounds, and overturn these disastrous regulations.”
02.23.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today recognized Kennesaw Mountain High School student Ryan Cobelli and Wheeler High School student Arvin Poddar as the winners of the 2016 Congressional App Challenge for Georgia’s 11th Congressional District. Teammates Ryan Cobelli and Arvin Poddar created a specially designed app called Gradespark – a free online grading system that allows students to easily calculate and manage their grades for multiple classes. As the winning app from Georgia’s 11th District, GradeSpark will be featured on StudentAppChallenge.us, and exhibited on a digital display at the U.S. Capitol. “A consistent theme I hear when visiting businesses across our district is the need for highly skilled employees with a focus on STEM,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “With this increasing demand, I was inspired by the great response to the Challenge. The response demonstrated that we have extremely talented students in our district who are involved, competing, and furthering scientific knowledge. It is a pleasure to represent such talented students whose futures look bright.” The Congressional App Challenge is designed to engage student creativity and encourage participation in STEM-based education fields. Established by members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is part of a nationwide event that allows high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or app, for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on the platform of their choice. The winner from the 11th Congressional District was selected by an independent panel of expert judges, including: • Mr. K.P. Reddy, Chief Executive Office, SoftWear Automation, Inc. • Mr. Jared Miller, Chief Technology Officer, AMB Sports & Entertainment, Atlanta Falcons • Ms. Svetlana Peltsverger, Interim Associate Dean and Associate Professor at the College of Computing and Software Engineering at Kennesaw State University Apps were judged based on the following criteria: quality of idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. "Our team of judges was highly impressed by the coding talent of the students from the 11th Congressional District,” said K.P. Reddy, CEO of SoftWear Automation, Inc. “The number of compelling projects submitted certainly made for a difficult decision process. These projects demonstrate how STEM is being prioritized in our schools, and I’m delighted the results are starting to show. These type of Congressional competitions will certainly help develop employees for the high tech sector as well as all manufacturing and technology based companies. I hope to see even more students participate next year." GradeSpark, the winning app for Georgia’s 11th Congressional District, can be viewed here.
02.11.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has introduced legislation to bolster local law enforcement’s involvement in fighting the war on terrorism, and strengthen community awareness of the threat. H.R. 4401, the “Amplifying Local Efforts to Root out Terrorism (ALERT) Act of 2016," will allow federal law enforcement to train and work closely with state and local law enforcement in using the most effective tactics and methods to counter terrorism. "Our local law enforcement is crucial to our national security, and they are too often overlooked as a valuable asset in fighting against acts of terrorism,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “That’s why I introduced the ALERT Act, to provide training, improve coordination, and increase community awareness of the foreign fighter threat. This bill evolved from months of research and investigation, as a member of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Foreign Fighter Task Force. As the threats against America by radical Islamists increases, fighting terrorism cannot be a singular effort, conducted by one element of our federal government; it requires the cooperation and coordination of multiple levels of all governments, and local community participation. My legislation will not, in itself, end the threat of terrorism against our nation, but it will add to the critical resources already in our communities.” House Homeland Security Committee Chairman, Michael McCaul, co-sponsored the ALERT Act, and is a strong supporter of the measure. Representative Loudermilk’s bill fills dangerous security gaps and will better protect the homeland. I applaud Rep. Loudermilk’s leadership on the Foreign Fighter Task Force, and his forward leaning approach in keeping America safe.” Local law enforcement plays a key role in tackling terror threats, and this legislation will: Authorize the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to train state and major urban area fusion centers (local and state law enforcement personnel) in the most effective tactics and methods used to counter terrorism Provide increased community awareness of ongoing terror threats Direct the DHS Secretary to coordinate with heads of government agencies, to engage in community outreach related to countering violent extremism Require the Department to report the findings of their counter-terrorism efforts, and ensure DHS assesses the number of clearances they sponsor for state and local law enforcement The ALERT Act was marked up and passed out of the Committee on Homeland Security on Tuesday, February 2, 2016.
02.02.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement today after voting to override the president’s veto of H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. “As a small business owner, I experienced the negative impact Obamacare had on my business, my employees and my customers. Now, in Congress, there’s not a month that goes by that I don’t hear from constituents about the heavy toll that Obamacare has taken on their family’s finances and overall quality of care. What the president calls ‘affordable’ health care is really just an elaborate redistribution scheme aimed at hurting middle class Americans and today’s millennial generation. We must do everything we can to stop this. “The Obama Administration’s anti-free-market push into every aspect of our lives, including health care, has sent shock waves through the heart of this nation. Instead of saving for college, parents are paying nearly double to provide quality health care for their families. While students should be focused on getting a quality, affordable education, they now are faced with skyrocketing health care premiums. And let’s not forget our seniors, who are paying for the same level of care, but with a significantly higher price tag. “Although we did not receive the 2/3 majority required to override the president’s veto, we will continue in our efforts to repeal Obamacare and reverse the other failed policies of this Administration. We will continue to pursue a bold conservative agenda and, if the President insists on continuing to exercise his veto power, we will run his veto pen out of ink.”
02.02.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act. Rep. Loudermilk strongly supported the bill. “Since the U.S. signed the Iran deal this past July, Iran has blatantly broken its side of the agreement by testing ballistic missiles on three separate occasions, including firing rockets near American navy ships. Yet, the Obama Administration chose to lift sanctions anyway. “We have to remember Iran’s true intentions. They sponsor terrorism, capture U.S. military boats and force American patriots to kneel at gun point, hold innocent U.S. citizens hostage, and chant, ‘Death to America.’ Iran is not our friend, and is certainly not our ally. They are our enemy; and diplomacy will not stop them from trying to destroy us. Iran does not deserve a pat on the back as it plots to strike at the heart of what makes America exceptional – our freedom.” Background Information on H.R. 3662: Under H.R. 3662, the president would be required to certify to Congress that sanctioned individuals or foreign banks are no longer supporting Iranian weapons development or terrorist activities before economic restrictions are lifted. Other provisions of the bill are as follows: • Federal agencies would be directed to submit quarterly reports to Congress on the number and types of U.S. licenses issued for activities in Iran. • H.R. 3662 would impose sanctions against individuals or entities that conduct business with Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, and these terrorist organizations would be added to a list of third-party financiers included in the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability and Divestment Act. • The president would be prohibited from removing Iran’s designation as a ‘jurisdiction of primary money laundering,’ unless the president can certify to the appropriate committees that Iran is no longer supporting acts of terrorism.
01.29.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has joined with a select group of conservative lawmakers to restore the Constitutional authority and limitations of Congress. Next Wednesday, February 3, Loudermilk will join Sen. Mike Lee, and others, to announce the launch of the Article I Project. The Article I Project is inspired by the desire to bring a bold, pro-active agenda to Congress that will restore the separation of powers and help reclaim Congress’s Constitutional role as the sole lawmaking body. “The President is not a lawmaker-in-chief, despite how desperately he wants to be,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Our Founders understood that government, when not properly constrained, would become corrupt and no longer represent the interests of the people. That is why they disseminated the powers of the federal government between three independent branches. Congress was given the majority of authority because they are the closest to the people, and directly accountable. However, over time Congress has abdicated that authority allowing for an unfettered growth of government, which has resulted in the rise of a fourth branch, the regulatory agencies. “Through this coalition of Conservative members of the House and Senate, we are reclaiming the Article I powers of the Constitution. Through a series of legislative initiatives, our goal is to restore Constitutional government, reclaim the power of the purse, reduce the impact regulatory agencies and bureaucrats have on the American people, and restore a nation 'of the people, by the people and for the people.' “My office has been focusing on ending the era of big regulation, eliminating our crippling debt, and reigning in the runaway executive branch. I am excited to be part of the Article I Project and our vision of restoring a nation that is free, safe and full of opportunity.” Reps. Loudermilk (R-GA), Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Dave Brat (R-VA), Gary Palmer (R-AL), Mia Love (R-UT), John Ratcliffe (R-TX), and Mark Walker (R-NC) will participate in panel discussions hosted by the American Enterprise Institute Scholar James Capretta and National Affairs Editor Yuval Levin. Sens. Mike Lee (R-UT) and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) along with Rep. Hensarling will deliver the opening remarks. WHAT: Article I Project Launch WHEN: Wednesday, February 3, 2016 at 8 a.m. EST WHERE: The Kirby Center at Hillsdale College 227 Massachusetts Avenue, NE Washington, D.C. 20002 NOTE: Please RSVP by emailing Conn Carroll at Conn_Carroll@lee.senate.gov. Space is limited, so RSVP's are strongly encouraged.
01.26.2016	Washington D.C. (January 26, 2016) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today announced the start of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition, a national contest that recognizes the artistic talents of high school students across the nation and features winning artwork in the U.S. Capitol. “Last year’s congressional art competition yielded an incredible turnout of young artists in our district,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “I am so proud of each one of the students who participated in last year’s competition, and was pleased to see the winning artwork hung for display in the U.S. Capitol. “I look forward to another winning piece being placed in the Capitol this year, and I encourage interested students to apply for the chance to be recognized nationally for their talent.” This Artistic Discovery Contest was established by the Congressional Institute in 1982 to provide an opportunity to recognize talented young artists locally and nationally. Since its start, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. This competition is open to all high school students living in Georgia’s 11th Congressional District. Artwork submitted will be judged by a panel of local artists, and the winner will be announced at a formal reception honoring the contestants. All pieces submitted will be on display as part of a special exhibit at the Downtown Gallery in Cartersville, Georgia from April 26 – May 6, 2016. The winner will also be recognized at an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C., and have their artwork displayed at the U.S. Capitol for one year. To enter the competition, a typed submission of the entry form, along with each piece of artwork, must be delivered to any of Rep. Loudermilk’s District office locations from April 11 – 15, 2016. The deadline to submit an entry is April 15, 2016 at 5:00 p.m. For more information on the contest rules and entry checklist, please click here. To view the official rules and regulations, please visit the United States House of Representative’s Congressional Art Competition webpage.
01.12.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 757, the North Korea Sanctions Enforcement Act, legislation that would charge and equip the administration to enforce heavier sanctions on those who facilitate human rights abuses, smuggling, and money laundering in North Korea: “First Iran…now North Korea. Breaking international agreements seems to be a trend under President Obama’s watch. North Korea, just last week, blatantly violated the United Nation’s ban on nuclear bomb testing, by showing the world’s its hydrogen-bomb capabilities. Not only does North Korea defy binding law, but they do so blatantly. They have threatened to “wipe out the whole US territory. “This is America, and we do not tolerate countries who try to threaten, terrorize and bully us. Today we passed a bill in the House that heavily sanctions North Korea and cuts off any business ties we have with them. The legislation will halt their proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and, once again, reaffirms our disgust with their inhuman treatment of others, including the American hostages they now hold.” The full text of H. R. 757 can be viewed here.
01.07.2016	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 1155, the Searching for and Cutting Regulations that are Unnecessarily Burdensome (SCRUB) Act, legislation that would help Congress identify an eliminate regulations that are outdated, unnecessary, burdensome, or hinder technology: “As a father who raised three children, I can tell you that an extra $15,000 a year would have been a game changer for our budget. As a former small business owner, I fully understand the negative impact of this President’s frenzy of new regulations. We have a lot of work to do in order to rein in the runaway agencies in Washington, and this bill is one good step in that direction. My office is laser focused on reforming the regulatory agencies and changing the culture of nonsense within these runaway agencies. The America we’re working to build is one where we get the government out of our way and allow freedom to foster innovation and success.” Background: •H.R. 1155 would establish a Retrospective Regulatory Review Commission to identify and eliminate regulations that are outdated, no longer necessary, burdensome, or hinder technology. •The bill is aimed to address the estimated $15,000 of hidden regulatory costs that are imposed on every US household each year. •The bill directs the commission to have a goal of reducing regulatory costs by 15% or more, while maintaining necessary effectiveness. •$488 billion in new regulatory costs were added in President Obama’s first term alone.
01.06.2016	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting in favor of H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. This legislation repeals the major provisions of Obamacare and blocks federal funding for Planned Parenthood: “Despite recent headlines, the House began to shift momentum and restore power back to the people in 2015 – and we are now seeing the results. Today, as Republicans in Congress promised, we sent a reconciliation bill directly to the President’s desk that will dismantle Obamacare and block taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood, an organization that has unashamedly profited from the sale of innocent unborn babies. “With healthcare costs reaching an all-time high, this legislation is a critical first step toward restoring patient-centered health care that best suits the needs of individual businesses and families. As a result of Obamacare, many individuals are now paying double – sometimes triple – for healthcare, and taxpayers are footing the bill for this unworkable, disastrous trillion-dollar bill. This is hardly the American dream that our founders envisioned; and, is anything but affordable. “Americans deserve a healthcare system that works for, not against, them. We are working hard to bring legislation to the table that reduces the cost of healthcare, restores free market competition, creates personalized insurance plans, and gets government out of the way.”
12.18.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting to protect Georgia’s Water Supply as part of H.R. 2029, the Omnibus appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2016. Specifically, the Congressional Delegation, along with the Governor, fought for the removal of offensive language from the end-of-the-year appropriations bill attacking the state of Georgia in the longstanding legal dispute with the state of Alabama over water usage. The offending language that was inserted into the appropriations bill would have forced the unnecessary involvement of the Department of Justice in states’ water disputes. “The provision that was slipped into the end of year funding bill would have been disastrous to Georgia and especially devastating to the 11th Congressional District. Access to our water resources is critical to sustaining our quality of life and our economic growth. In a case like this, where the questionable provision was inserted in a must-pass piece of legislation, a simple no vote would have been insufficient. We had to act; and, thanks to the immediate action of a unified Georgia delegation and Governor Deal, we were able to protect our state’s water resources. “The new leadership in the House has committed to change the culture in Washington DC, and their quick and helpful response to this last minute attempt to circumvent access to Georgia’s water is evidence that backroom deals are no longer accepted as the way we do business." The water rights issue has been a litigated dispute between Georgia and Alabama since 1990, when Alabama first sued to prevent Georgia from reallocating water within the basin. That lawsuit was dismissed as baseless in 2012 after 22 years of litigation. Currently, Georgia has a case pending before the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia that would require the Army Corps of Engineers to reallocate water based on Georgia’s water supply needs.
11.19.2015	Washington D.C. (November 19, 2015) | Today, the office of Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) announced the participation of Georgia’s 11th Congressional District in the 2nd Annual "Congressional App Challenge" – an opportunity for U.S. high school students to design creative apps that promote and encourage STEM-based (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) skills. "One of my favorite stories of America's rich history is that of the Wright brothers. Still today, the story of these two young men demonstrates the true spirit of American ingenuity, as owners of a bicycle sales and repair shop, who dreamt of flight. Merely sixty-six years passed from that incredible day on a beach in North Carolina, to the day Astronaut Neil Armstrong walked on the moon. That is American ingenuity, and the spirit that can be found in our students today. The "Congressional App Challenge" is one of those opportunities to give the new generation a chance to unleash their innate American creativity. It is the type of program that will allow our students to showcase their skills and explore the exciting STEM-related fields, which will propel them into positions of global leadership. I encourage every high school in the 11th District to participate,” said Rep. Loudermilk. Sponsored by the Internet Education Foundation, the Congressional App Challenge recognizes the talent of U.S. high school students in the areas of computer programming, design, and digital technology. As part of the competition, students will compete against their district peers by creating and exhibiting a software application, or app, for mobile, tablet, or computer device, on a platform of their choice. Between November 9, 2015 and January 15, 2016, students may create an original app and submit it through Rep. Loudermilk’s Congressional App Challenge page. Apps will be judged based on the following criteria: • Quality of the idea, including creativity and originality • Implementation of the idea, including user experience and design • Demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills A winning individual or team from Georgia’s 11th District will be selected by a local panel of judges and honored by Congressman Loudermilk. The winning app from each congressional district will also be featured as part of a special exhibit at the U.S. Capitol, and recognized on StudentAppChallenge.us. For more information on the competition or how to enter, contact Claire Bartlett at Claire.bartlett@mail.house.gov, or visit the Congressional app challenge section on Rep. Loudermilk’s website.
11.19.2015	Washington D.C. (November 19, 2015) | Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting in favor of H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015 (SAFE Act). This legislation would require comprehensive background checks for all Syrian and Iraqi refugees prior to entering the United States: “Regardless of how desperately the President wants to bury his head in the sand and ignore the fact that the United States is the primary target of radical Islamic terrorists, his primary responsibility is to protect the American people. If he won't take action to keep Americans safe, then we will! Today Congress took the first of many steps to halt the President's reckless plan to resettle Syrian refugees in the United States, by passing the SAFE Act, which I am co-sponsoring. This bill takes a major step in preventing terrorists from exploiting the President's majorly flawed resettlement program by posing as refugees to enter the United States. We must do our best to protect our families from being open targets of ISIS operatives, who have already stated they will hide 'as wolves among the sheep' to get into the U.S. While many Syrian refugees present no imminent harm to our nation, the President's program is not for temporary refuge; it is a permanent resettlement program, which allows permanent residency in the United States. American people are wary of the possible doorway this overly generous resettlement program will open up for violent radical Islamists to integrate into communities across our nation. This bill will put a pause on the program, and keep government agencies accountable to both the American people and Congress. We shouldn’t have to live in fear for our lives because of the Administration’s lack of leadership and governance. “At a time when terror is gripping the world, we should not give refugees a free ticket to cross our borders without an extremely thorough vetting process. Improperly vetted, Syrian and Iraqi refugees pose a real and dangerous threat to the United States. Without the ability to perform extensive background checks, especially in Syria and Iraq, it is downright reckless to allow a free flow of refugees to flood our shores. As a member of the House's special task force on foreign fighter travel, I will continue to aggressively pursue every possible measure to stop the president from putting Americans at risk, and to eliminate ISIS and other radical Islamist terrorist organizations." Background on H.R. 4038: H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015, passed the house by a vote of 289 to 137. This bill requires the Director of the FBI to verify background checks have been thoroughly administered for all Syrian and Iraqi refugees prior to admittance to the United States. Under this legislation, the FBI must also certify to the Department of Homeland Security and National Intelligence that foreign refugees do not pose a direct threat to national security.
11.16.2015	Washington D.C. (November 16, 2015) | Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today calling on the administration to suspend the relocation of Syrian and Iraqi refugees after the recent terror attacks in Paris: “I am very sympathetic towards the plight of all refugees seeking asylum from the violence in Syria and Iraq. The United States has a long history of providing support, relief and sanctuary to oppressed people around the world; however, our nation is in the crosshairs of one of the most violent and evil organizations in the history of mankind. The threats against our nation are real and serious, and we must make every effort to protect the people and interests of our nation. Therefore, I am calling on the administration to immediately cease plans to admit any refugees from the conflict zones associated with the expansion and occupation of ISIS or the civil war in Syria. My office is currently looking at what legislative means we can use to force the administration to stop these potentially disastrous plans. “Earlier this year, as a member of the Homeland Security Foreign Fighter Task Force, I visited France and several other countries in Europe, and met with both U.S. and foreign counterterrorism officials. Infiltrating refugees with terrorist operatives, as a method of positioning them in targeted nations, was a real concern. While our law enforcement and counterterrorism officials have done an exceptional job protecting Americans, ISIS is now operating at a new level. I do not believe we can afford to take resources off the front lines of countering terrorism to manage and monitor 10,000 refugees, with likely imbedded terrorists.”
11.13.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement tonight regarding the attacks in Paris: “The atrocious acts of terrorism carried out in Paris this evening are acts of pure evil perpetrated against innocent civilians – not a government or a military force. The timing and coordination of simultaneous attacks in various locations is evidence this was not random, but premeditated, coordinated mass murder. “As part of the Homeland Security Committee’s Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, I visited Paris in May, and the delegation met with French and American counterterrorism officials who were concerned about the growing number of foreign fighters traveling from France to Iraq and Syria. As a member of Congress, I strongly condemn these attacks and firmly stand by our French allies as they mourn their losses, recover from the devastation, and bring justice to those responsible for these atrocities. France is the longest continual ally of the United States, standing with us since our own war for Independence. Now, they need us to stand with them against a common enemy; extreme Islamic terrorism. Today, I ask that all the citizens of the 11th Congressional district join my family as we pray for the victims, their families and the people of France.” If anyone in the 11th Congressional District has friends or family working or traveling in France, and needs help contacting their loved ones, please call Rep. Loudermilk’s main District office at 770-429-1776 ext. 204 or email Crystal Gilbert at crystal.gilbert@mail.house.gov. Due to the magnitude of this emergency, the office will be available throughout the weekend to provide assistance.
11.05.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after co-sponsoring H. Res. 494, a resolution to initiate impeachment proceedings against John Koskinen, the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service. This resolution, sponsored by Rep. Jason Chaffetz, will enable Congress to assess whether IRS Commissioner Koskinen engaged in possible misconduct and violated the public trust, through failing to respond to lawfully issued Congressional subpoenas and targeting Americans based on their political affiliation: “Our founders gave us a nation where the rights of the people were paramount to the power of government. The right to freely speak out against the government, and equal protection under the law, were just two of the natural rights the government was founded to uphold and protect. However, the Internal Revenue Service has trampled these rights and abused the power of its office to harass and oppress citizens and organizations who exercised their right to speak out against bad government policies. Through Congressional investigations, we learned that the IRS engaged in unlawful targeting of conservative Americans. I am outraged by the illegal practices of the IRS, and those responsible must be held accountable. IRS Commissioner Koskinen ignored the law and the will of the American people, and I am actively working with Rep. Chaffetz to impeach him for his actions against the people of this nation.” The full text of H. Res 494 can be viewed HERE.
11.04.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will host a special pinning ceremony on Wednesday, November 11, 2015 at Glover Park in Marietta to honor the service of local veterans, and those who serve veterans, after the 11th annual Marietta Veterans Day Parade. The annual Marietta Veterans Day Parade begins at Roswell Street Baptist Church at 11 a.m. and proceeds to the Historic Marietta Square. Immediately following the parade ceremonies at 12:30 p.m., Rep. Loudermilk will join Marietta Mayor Steve Tumlin, and Marc Young, an Army veteran and the Deputy Chief of External Affairs at the Corporation for National & Community Service, to individually recognize local military veterans, and those who serve the veteran community, with a specially designed National Veteran Corps pin. The Veterans pins honor veterans who continue to serve in their communities after leaving the military. The AmeriCorps and Senior Corps’ pins honor volunteers who are dedicated to serving veterans and military families in need. Since 2009, AmeriCorps and Senior Corps’ members have served more than 780,000 veterans and military families across 2,700 communities nationwide. This year in Georgia, nearly 300 veterans and service members will serve communities across the state. On Veterans Day, it is anticipated that approximately 50 of these veterans will receive their service pins. This event marks the only pinning ceremony occurring in the State of Georgia. WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Marietta Mayor Steve Tumlin, and Mr. Marc Young WHAT: Veterans Day Pinning Ceremony WHEN: Wednesday, November 11, 2015 | 12:30 p.m. – 1:30 p.m. WHERE: Glover Park, Main Stage 50 North Park Square Marietta, GA 30060
10.30.2015	Washington D.C. (October 30, 2015) |The Office of Congressman Barry Loudermilk will hold a “Citizen Engagement Day” on Tuesday, November 3rd at the Adairsville City Hall from 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. This interactive event will focus on assisting citizens from throughout Georgia’s 11th District with federal issues or concerns. Constituent Service Representatives from Congressman Loudermilk’s office will be available to address questions and help citizens interface with federal agencies such as the VA, the IRS, and the Social Security Administration- among others. WHO: WHAT: WHEN: WHERE: Citizen Service Representatives from Rep. Loudermilk's Office Note: Rep. Loudermilk will not be in attendance. Citizen Engagement Day in Adairsville Tuesday, November 3, 2015 | 2:00 p.m. - 4:00p.m. Adairsville City Hall 116 Public Square Adairsville, GA 30103
10.29.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting to elect Rep. Paul Ryan as the next Speaker of the House: “This historic mid-term process of selecting a new Speaker has never been about a person, but revolutionizing the way Congress does business. The current leadership-centric, top down approach to governing is broken and prohibits members from truly representing their constituents. There is no better example of the failure of the current system than the two year budget deal which passed yesterday with a majority of Republicans rejecting it. The bill bypassed the entire legislative process and had no input from individual members of Congress or committee chairmen who have jurisdiction over these matters. “While there is no perfect candidate, Rep. Paul Ryan has openly committed to working with members to restore the rules, respect the legislative process, empower every member of Congress, and ensure the American people are represented. “Our nation’s Founders designed the House of Representatives to serve as the People’s House, not the speaker’s house. I believe that today gives us an historic opportunity to change the culture in Washington D.C., and shows that our government has responded to the millions of Americans who demanded change in the direction of their government. “I look forward to working with Speaker Ryan as we continue toward restoring an America for future generations that is free, safe, and full of opportunity.”
10.28.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting against H.R. 1314, a two-year budget deal that would raise the debt ceiling without significant spending reductions: "When President Obama assumed office in 2009, our national debt hovered around $10 trillion – much less than today’s $18 trillion debt. For a president who campaigned on change, he’s sure not leaving a lot of spare change for the American people. “We must pay off the debt we owe and find a way to stop the financial bleeding. Unfortunately, the bill that passed the House today is not the way to accomplish this goal. This bill would raise the debt ceiling until March of 2017, and give the Administration a blank check to continue its reckless spending, while failing to make corresponding spending cuts. “This secretive deal making is not in the best interest of American taxpayers. Federal spending must be put through the proper budget process, not pushed through the House by a select group of power brokers with no input from the majority of members. The American people deserve a transparent process with careful deliberation and judicious review of all budgetary line items, especially as it pertains to our national defense. Passing this budget without completing the National Defense Authorization Act is like writing a blank check to Obama to run the military with no direction from Congress. “In addition, this bill does not go far enough to enact enforceable spending reductions or provide real solutions to resolving our ongoing budget crisis. This legislation would defy previously established spending caps by $50 billion for FY16 and by $30 billion for FY17. The average American citizen is now responsible for more than $57,000 of our national debt, resulting from many years of deficit spending. Rather than continuing on the current path of out-of-control spending that will pass the burden on to future generations, we must adhere to current spending caps, prioritize our nation’s most critical programs, and cut wasteful spending.”
10.23.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting in favor of the “Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act," a budgetary measure that dismantles many of Obamacare’s costly provisions and diverts funds from Planned Parenthood to Community Health Centers nationwide: “Today, we took a huge step forward in dismantling the unaffordable, heavily regulated Obamacare law and defunding the atrocious acts of Planned Parenthood through reconciliation, a rarely used legislative tool that bypasses the Senate’s 60 vote filibuster rule. “Due to the restrictions of Senate reconciliation rules, this legislation does not ultimately repeal Obamacare, but it goes a long way toward gutting many of the law’s most damaging provisions such as the individual and employer mandates. Many of my colleagues and I recently submitted a substitute bill, aimed at fully repealing the healthcare law; but the Rules Committee determined the legislation doesn’t comply with Senate reconciliation guidelines. “We tried for a touchdown, but I am pleased that we were successful in moving the ball further down the field – a move that brings us closer to removing big government bureaucracy and restoring freedom for Americans to make their own healthcare decisions. “Government run healthcare was never part of the Founder’s vision for America, nor is it Constitutional. The administration of healthcare has always been a core responsibility of the states, guided by the free market. Our personal healthcare decisions should never be left in the hands of government bureaucrats, but to American businesses and families. It’s time to restore free market competition that drives down the cost of healthcare and removes the government’s heavy-handed intrusion into our lives.”
10.22.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after submitting a suggestion for a new Republican Conference Rule to Chairwoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Chairman Luke Messer: “One of the primary responsibilities of Congress is to create the budget and manage the appropriations for the federal government. This responsibility is also an authority given to Congress that is used to constrain the other branches of government. “However, over the past several years, Congress has abdicated that authority and, instead of completing the process of budgeting and appropriating, they have just opted to continue operating the government AS-IS through passing a series of Continuing Resolutions (CRs). “Every successful business and family in America has to effectively manage their resources and their budget; and Congress should do no less. The federal government gives April 15 as a deadline to pay our taxes and, if we don’t, there are serious consequences. But there are no consequences or deadlines on Congress to do its job in completing the appropriations process. “My proposed change to the rule states: ‘All appropriations bills must be passed by the last Friday before the August recess. If the Conference fails to complete this goal, the Speaker of the House is required to rescind August recess and hold Congress in session until all appropriations bills have been passed.’ “When I ran a business, we kept working on each job until it was completed. The American people expect Congress to stay at work until we complete the task we are primarily sent to do each year. This rule will ensure we put the future of the American people over our own interests."
10.21.2015	Washington D.C. (October 21, 2015) | The Office of Congressman Barry Loudermilk will hold a “Citizen Engagement Day” on Tuesday, October 27th at the Boots Ward Recreation Center from 9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. This interactive event will focus on assisting citizens from throughout Georgia’s 11th District with federal issues or concerns. Constituent Service Representatives from Congressman Loudermilk’s office will be available to address questions and help citizens interface with federal agencies such as the VA, the IRS, and the Social Security Administration - among others. WHO: Citizen Service Representatives from Rep. Loudermilk's Office WHAT: "Citizen Engagement Day" WHEN: Tuesday, October 27, 2015 | 9:30 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. WHERE: Boots Ward Recreation Center 4845 Dallas Highway Powder Springs, GA 30127
10.21.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting to approve H.R. 692, the Default Prevention Act of 2015: “Even though previous Congresses ran up our credit tab, we are still responsible for paying the bill. America must keep its promises and prevent the debt ceiling process from becoming a political football used to force members into blindly raising the debt ceiling year after year. This bill keeps these promises while working to preserve our nation’s long-term fiscal health, and it prevents our credit rating from plummeting if we don’t act on raising the nation’s credit limit. “If the U.S. Treasury goes into default on November 3 because we haven't lifted the debt ceiling, this legislation would ensure the payments for social security and interest on debt. It would also prevent the U.S. from borrowing more money to pay for Congressional salaries at a time when we’re working to get our fiscal house back in order.”
10.20.2015	Washington D.C. (October 20, 2015) | Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today in response to the recent surge of Palestinian-led terrorist attacks against Israeli civilians: “Terrorism in any form is a deplorable act, especially when the attacks are carried out against innocent citizens going about their peaceful lives in their own communities. The vicious terrorist attacks against Israeli citizens are reprehensible and should be condemned by the international community. “However, as the swell of violence against Israeli citizens has continued to escalate, Obama’s State Department recently suggested that Israel used 'excessive force' in defending its people against terrorism. Really? It is the role of government to protect its own citizens, and if the people of my hometown were threatened with these targeted acts of death and destruction, I would expect the government to take every action necessary to stop the violence and eliminate the perpetrators. I believe most Americans would agree, but when the victims live in Israel, sometimes we tend to use a different standard. Murder is evil, regardless if it takes place in a small town in America's heartland or on a playground in Israel. “Irresponsible comments, like the ones coming from our State Department, send the wrong message to our enemies – especially at a time when an ally in the tumultuous Middle East is merely protecting itself from those who seek its destruction. “I recently was in Israel and visited one of the peaceful communities in the area near Gaza, which is transformed into a combat zone when rockets are fired by Iranian-backed terrorists operating in Gaza. I have stood at a bomb shelter next to a playground where children are taught to run to, in order to avoid the deadly shrapnel of terrorists’ rockets. “I have also visited neighborhoods near Jerusalem, where walls are erected to protect Israeli citizens from snipers shooting from nearby Palestinian neighborhoods. I also traveled into Palestinian controlled towns within the West Bank and met with officials of the Palestinian Authority. The desire for a peaceful coexistence with Israel was the foremost topic of our discussion; however, with the recent acts of terrorism, it appears that Instead of working toward peace and lasting stability, the Palestinian Authority is inciting violence to inflame tensions between the Israeli and Palestinian people. “We cannot stand quietly by or cast blame on Israel for brutal acts of violence being carried out upon their citizens. The nation of Israel deserves the right to protect itself against violent acts of terror and insidious attacks that seek to undermine its statehood. As terror becomes an all-too-familiar reality for Israeli citizens, we must work together to protect the Israeli people and unequivocally defend their right to exist. “Our prayers are with the innocent Israeli families whose lives have been shattered through these cowardly acts of violence. Now, more than ever, we must stand in solidarity with them as they endure these attacks from neighboring nations, and insurgents who live within their own borders.”
10.20.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting to approve the DHS Headquarters Reform and Improvement Act of 2015 (H.R. 3572), legislation that streamlines the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Policy. Rep. Loudermilk’s amendment ensures that the Homeland Security Act, which governs DHS’s operations, provides clear and relevant Congressional direction: “Today, I was able to swing a sledgehammer at federal bureaucracy. My amendment, which recently passed out of the Homeland Security Committee, eliminates an entire office that is no longer in use at the Department of Homeland Security - the Counternarcotics Enforcement Office. This amendment chips away at wasteful, big government spending, restructures the department for greater efficiency, and places a renewed focus on securing our homeland. “The bill that passed the House tonight with my amendment, the “DHS Headquarters Reform and Improvement Act of 2015,” goes a long way toward reforming many of DHS’ major acquisition programs and shrinking ineffective management functions within the department. We can't afford to sit on the sidelines, watching bureaucracy grow like weeds while it overtakes our freedom and dries up hardworking taxpayer dollars.”
10.15.2015	The Office of Congressman Barry Loudermilk will hold a “Citizen Engagement Day” event on Tuesday, October 20th from 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. at the 11th Congressional District Galleria office and on Thursday, October 22nd from 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. at the Acworth City Hall. These interactive events will focus on assisting citizens from throughout Georgia’s 11th District with federal issues or concerns. Constituent Service Representatives from Congressman Loudermilk’s office will be available to address questions and help citizens interface with federal agencies such as the VA, the IRS, and the Social Security Administration - among others. WHO: Citizen Service Representatives from Rep. Loudermilk's (R-GA) Office WHAT: "Citizen Engagement Day" WHERE: The Office of Congressman Loudermilk - Galleria Office 600 Galleria Parkway, Suite 120 Atlanta, GA, 30339 WHEN: Tuesday, October 20, 2015 | 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. WHERE: The Acworth City Hall, Conference Rm. #1 4415 Senator Russell Avenue Acworth, GA 30101 WHEN: Thursday, October, 22, 2015 | 9:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m.
10.13.2015	Washington D.C. (October 13, 2015) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will host a town hall meeting at North Atlanta High School on Monday, November 9, 2015 from 6:00 – 7:15 p.m. During this interactive event, Rep. Loudermilk will provide a legislative update on federal policy issues and listen to constituent concerns. This event marks the first town hall meeting to be held in Fulton County for the 11th Congressional District. All attendees will be given the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session. WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) WHAT: Town Hall Meeting WHEN: Monday, November 9, 2015 | 6:00 - 7:15 p.m. WHERE: North Atlanta High School 4111 Northside Parkway Atlanta, GA 30327
09.30.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today regarding his decision to vote against the Continuing Resolution (CR) for FY2016, a short-term funding extension which runs through December 11, 2015: “With an $18 trillion dollar debt and regulations squeezing the life out of American businesses and families, we must stop governing from crisis to crisis. The Constitution gives Congress the authority and the responsibility to fund the government through an appropriations process; but that procedure has been abandoned, and now we just approve short-term funding extensions that do nothing to address our nation’s insurmountable debt. “Every time we pass a continuing resolution, we are giving the Obama Administration a blank check to continue with the same damaging policies. Since the CR does not specifically address all of the hard-earned tax dollars being spent on Planned Parenthood's atrocities, the EPA's crippling regulations, and a host of other ill advised rules being forced on Americans by this Administration, I simply cannot vote to extend funding to these out-of-control programs and agencies. “Moving ahead, I look forward to working with the new leadership team to get America’s economy on track, balance the budget, and bring order back to the appropriations process.”
09.29.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) participated in a press conference today to announce the final report and recommendations of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel. After months of extensive review, the report indicates that security measures must be tightened in order to stem the flow of foreign fighter travel and prevent individuals from joining jihadist groups overseas, especially in Syria and Iraq. “As a member of the Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, my colleagues and I have spent a considerable amount of time assessing the threat of foreign fighter travel and working with our international allies to stop the spread of terrorism," said Rep. Barry Loudermilk. "The final report released by the Task Force today reveals significant security gaps that could potentially threaten the safety and security of our homeland, putting Americans at risk. Terrorists are becoming much more sophisticated in carrying out acts of terror, and we must adapt quickly to ensure we are keeping up with the fast-evolving security threats facing our nation.” The Task Force, which was tasked with examining the severity of the foreign fighter threat and identifying potential security gaps, held dozens of official meetings, briefings, and site visits in the United States and abroad. The review was one of the most extensive public examinations of the U.S. government’s efforts to counter terrorist travel since the 9/11 Commission’s final report. Among the report’s 32 findings and accompanying recommendations, the Task Force has identified the following key areas for improvement: • To keep pace with evolving security threats, the U.S. must prioritize and overhaul its strategy for combating terrorist travel. • To stem the flow of terrorist travel, the U.S. must develop a strategic plan to stop Americans from going overseas to train in terrorist safe havens and prevent these individuals from becoming foreign fighters. • The expedient exchange of information is critical to catching foreign fighters, but information sharing between America our allies needs improvement. • Gaping security weaknesses overseas – especially in Europe – are putting the U.S. homeland at risk, and basic procedures such as counterterrorism checks can go a long way toward preventing terrorists from traveling and being radicalized overseas. • America must work with our allies to eliminate the problem at its source in Syria and Iraq, and develop a long-term strategy to prevent the emergence of additional terrorist sanctuaries. Based on the Task Force’s findings, over 25,000 people from over 100 countries have migrated to conflict zones in Syria and Iraq since 2011, including 4,500 westerners and more than 250 Americans who have attempted to join jihadist groups. While many of these foreign fighters do not return home to plot attacks, these individuals are taking an active role in recruiting an entire new generation of terrorists, while also working to radicalize westerners online to spread terrorism back home. “I commend Congressman Loudermilk for his work on this serious homeland security issue, a grave and growing threat from foreign fighters,” said Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX). “Sadly, global efforts have failed to stop the flow of these aspiring jihadists into Syria, and we have already seen ‘returnees’ from the conflict zone come home to America and Europe and plot acts of terror. Even more, those still on the battlefield are radicalizing their peers online and inciting them to launch homegrown attacks. In light of the task force’s findings, I urge American leaders to develop a strategy to combat terrorist and foreign fighter travel and eliminate the ISIS threat." The final report and recommendations can be viewed here.
09.29.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today on voting to approve H.R. 3495, the Women’s Public Health and Safety Act: “With the release of the horrific videos showing Planned Parenthood engaging in atrocious violations of basic human dignity, many states have already taken action to end taxpayer funding for abortion. However, these same states now face an uphill battle and stiff opposition from the Obama Administration and Planned Parenthood for taking a stand against actions that many taxpayers find deplorable. “Since Medicaid is a state-federal partnership, this legislation would ultimately place the power back into the hands of individual states to determine whether or not to fund abortions. States should not be forced to go against the conscience of millions of American citizens who believe these actions are a dark stain on our nation’s history, and fund a practice that wars against the very principles of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.”
09.28.2015	The Office of Congressman Barry Loudermilk will hold a “Citizen Engagement Day” on Thursday, October 8, 2015 from 10:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. at the Consolidated Club (Smyrna Room) at Dobbins Air Reserve Base. Citizens with access to Dobbins ARB, including active military/reservists, military retirees, contractors, and military dependents, will be able to meet directly with Constituent Services representatives from Rep. Loudermilk’s staff to discuss issues with federal agencies such as the U.S. Department of Defense, the Veterans Administration, Defense Finance and Accounting Services, the Social Security Administration, and the Internal Revenue Service– among others. Constituent Services representatives will answer any questions or concerns dealing with federal casework and serve as a liaison between citizens and the federal government. WHO: Citizen Service Reps. from Rep. Loudermilk's Office WHAT: "Citizen Engagement Day" at Dobbins ARB WHEN: Thursday, October 8, 2015 | 10:30 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. WHERE: Consolidated Club (Smyrna Room) at Dobbins ARB 1291 Cobb Parkway South Marietta, GA 30067
09.28.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will join fellow members of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel for a press conference on Tuesday, September 29 at 11:00 a.m. to announce the release of the Task Force’s final report. In addition to announcing the Task Force’s findings, Rep. Loudermilk will discuss coordination efforts to counter violent extremism on the state and local level. As part of the Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, members conducted dozens of official meetings, briefings, and site visits in the United States and abroad to assess the severity of the foreign fighter threat, and to identify potential security gaps. The review was one of the most extensive public examinations of the U.S. government’s efforts to counter terrorist travel since the 9/11 Commission’s final report. Members of the press who are interested in attending must be credentialed through the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214. WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Task Force Members WHAT: Press Conference WHEN: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 at 11:00 a.m. WHERE: House Recording Studios, Studio A U.S. Capitol, HVC-114
09.25.2015	Washington D.C. (September 25, 2015) | Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today concerning Speaker Boehner’s resignation from the 114th Congress: “Speaker Boehner announced today his intentions to resign at the end of October. As I stated throughout my campaign, we need strong conservative leadership – not just new leadership. Speaker Boehner is a good man, and I appreciate his many years of service and longtime commitment to our party and the Republican cause. His decision to step down was a classy move that took a lot of courage. “Now is the time to focus on electing a leader who can boldly articulate our principles, unite our party, and help make our nation a better place for our children and grandchildren. I look forward to working with my colleagues to build a new leadership team that brings renewed vision to America.”
09.18.2015	Rep. Loudermilk on Defunding Planned Parenthood: Children Are Not Commodities Washington D.C. (September 18, 2015) | Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today on the passage of H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015: “As Americans, we should be outraged by the atrocities taking place in our own nation, where innocent unborn babies are being harvested, marketed, and sold. Our children are not commodities to be bought and sold to the highest bidder, but humans who deserve to live. “Planned Parenthood performs roughly 300,000 abortions each year, which means that nearly 900 unborn children lose their lives each day. This is not the America our founders envisioned for this nation. America is a land of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness – not death, destruction, and complete disregard for human life. “With the release of the Center for Medical Progress’ videos exposing Planned Parenthood’s unethical and potentially unlawful activities, we can no longer bury our heads in the sand and somehow justify these atrocities in the name of science or business. Defunding Planned Parenthood is not a partisan issue; it’s about protecting the basic human rights of precious unborn children. “As a result of this life-saving legislation, Planned Parenthood clinics and their affiliates will be prohibited from receiving taxpayer funds for a one-year period, unless the organization agrees to stop performing abortions. This legislation is also critical to putting an end to the culture of death that has become so commonplace in Planned Parenthood clinics nationwide." Rep. Loudermilk Votes to Increase Protections for Babies Born-Alive During Abortions Washington D.C. (September 18, 2015) | Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting to approve H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act: “The harvesting and selling of baby parts is a story line so horrific and unbelievable that major Hollywood studios would likely discard the script as too offensive, yet these atrocious acts are happening everyday at Planned Parenthood clinics nationwide. Not only are these baby parts being harvested from aborted children, but according to the recently released undercover videos from the Center for Medical Progress, babies born-alive are being bought and sold for profit. These actions are atrocious and deserve to be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. “There comes a time when we can no longer turn away from truth, regardless of how offensive it may be. Children born alive during abortions deserve the highest quality of care and should not be left to die in abortion clinics or sold for profit. “In a compelling testimony before the House Judiciary Committee, abortion survivor Gianna Jessen shared her moving story about surviving a late-term abortion. As part of her remarks, Jessen said, ‘If abortion is about women’s rights, then where were mine?’ America, the choice is in our hands. Will we give the countless babies who are born alive during abortions a chance at life, or will we continue to silence those who cannot yet speak for themselves? Life and death hangs in the balance; and it is my hope that we will choose life.”
09.11.2015	Washington D.C. (September 11, 2015) | Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting to stop the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action between the P5+1 nations and Iran and supporting a resolution that would prevent the Administration from lifting sanctions on Iran: “Iran wants to destroy us; they want to see America fall, as they shatter the American dream and compromise the security of our closest ally, Israel. Every generation faces a critical moment of decision that has the ability to change our nation forever. By making a deal with the terrorist state of Iran, we are freely giving away the future security of our children and grandchildren. “As the Administration continues to sell this bad deal to the American people and to Congress, Iranian Ayatollah Khamenei recently went on record as saying, ‘After nuclear negotiations, the Zionist regime said that they will not be worried about Iran in the next 25 years. I am telling you, first, you will not be around in 25 years’ time, and God willing, there will be no Zionist regime in 25 years.’ With Iran continuing to make pronouncements of death to America and Israel, we cannot – under any circumstances – lift sanctions and allow $150 billion in assets to be infused into Iran’s economy. “After five years, the U.N. arms embargo on Iran will be lifted and, after eight years, its ballistic missile restrictions will dissipate, giving Iran the green light to advance its weaponry and conventional military forces. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action between the P5+1 nations and Iran is merely a Band-Aid on top of an open wound. Iran has always sought the destruction of the United States, and now is no different. “History will remember the decision we make today. Will we stand against a great evil that has threatened to annihilate us, or take a stand to stop Iran’s reign of terror? “As we mark the 14th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, where thousands of innocent Americans lost their lives, we must never forget or turn a deaf ear to the radical ideologies that are fueling violent terrorism around the globe. Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu, who deals with a constant barrage of violent attacks and rocket fire from Iranian-funded terrorist groups like Hamas, left us with these parting words on a recent trip to Israel; ‘When someone says they are going to destroy you, believe them.’ We must take Iran at their word and stop this Iran deal before it’s too late – the safety and security of our children and grandchildren depends on it.”
09.10.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after voting to approve H. Res. 411, a resolution that requires all documentation, including the text of any ‘side’ agreements between Iran and the International Atomic Energy Agency, to be immediately transmitted to Congress by the Obama Administration: “The Iran deal is one of the most significant decisions of our lifetime. With the safety and security of all Americans at stake, including those within the international community, a final decision on the Iran deal cannot be reached without first conducting a thorough investigation and review of all aspects of the agreement, including secret deals between Iran and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). “The ink wasn’t even dry on the initial nuclear deal agreed to by the P5+1 nations before the chief religious leader of Iran, Ayatollah Khamenei, held rallies calling for the complete destruction of Israel and the United States. What’s more, the State Department also recently acknowledged the deal would allow the Iranians to perform their own nuclear inspections. “To protect the safety and security of our nation and our greatest ally Israel, we cannot trust Iran to self-inspect their own nuclear sites without physical oversight from the international community. “H. Res 411 would stop the clock and require all ‘secret deals’ to be turned over by the Obama Administration prior to the start of a new 60-day Congressional review period. With the safety and security of all Americans at grave risk, Congress cannot afford to get this decision wrong. We must take every action to defeat this deal and prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons or expanding their military forces – our future depends on it.”
09.01.2015	The Office of Congressman Barry Loudermilk will kick-off a series of “Citizen Engagement Days” on Thursday, September 10, 2015 in Ball Ground and Waleska, Georgia. These interactive events will focus on assisting citizens with federal casework and connecting with individuals and families throughout Georgia’s 11th District. Constituent Service Representatives from Congressman Loudermilk’s office will be available to address questions and concerns and help citizens interface with federal agencies. All constituents are invited to attend. Additional dates and locations will be announced each month. WHO: Citizen Service Representatives from Rep. Loudermilk's Office WHAT: "Citizen Engagement Day" WHEN: Thursday, September 10, 2015 WHERE: Ball Ground City Hall | 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. 215 Valley Street Ball Ground, GA 30107 Waleska City Hall (Old Fire House) | 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. 8891 Fincher Road Waleska, GA 30183
08.26.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will hold an Open House and Ribbon Cutting for the 11th Congressional District’s new Galleria office on September 15, 2015 from 11:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. With the addition of the Galleria office, Rep. Loudermilk will have three District locations available to assist constituents, including offices in Woodstock and Cartersville. The event will begin promptly at 11:00 a.m. with an official Ribbon Cutting at noon. All constituents are invited to attend. WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) WHAT: Galleria Office Open House and Ribbon Cutting WHEN: Tuesday, September, 15, 2015 | 11:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Office of Congressman Loudermilk | Galleria Office 600 Galleria Parkway SE Suite 120 Atlanta, GA 30339
08.10.2015	As part of a Congressional delegation led by the American Israel Education Foundation (AIEF), Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will travel to Israel this month to gain a firsthand understanding of the U.S. – Israeli relationship. “As a member of the Committee on Homeland Security and long-time supporter of Israel, I believe it’s our duty to stand in solidarity with the world’s only Jewish state and ensure their protection against nations who seek their destruction,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Israel is our greatest ally in the Middle East, and I look forward to working with many of the region’s key leaders to make sure the safety of Israel and the United States is a top priority.” In addition to meeting with key leaders, Rep. Loudermilk will receive an in-depth briefing on critical security issues, including the recent agreement to lift sanctions on Iran’s nuclear program. The delegation will also explore opportunities to expand economic opportunities with the Israeli business community and learn about the tools Israel is using to combat terrorism. The American Israel Education Foundation (AIEF) hosts this annual educational tour of Israel for members of Congress to gain an in-depth view of issues facing Israel and the Middle East. Established in 1990, AIEF works to strengthen U.S. – Israeli relations and encourage participation in public affairs.
07.30.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has introduced legislation to add historically significant property to Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park. H.R. 3371, the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act of 2015, would expand the park’s boundaries to include the Wallis House and Harriston Hill, located near the intersection of Burnt Hickory Road and Ernest Barrett Parkway in Marietta, Georgia. With this legislation, the National Park Service would be authorized to acquire the property by donation. “Kennesaw Mountain is one of the wonderful historic attractions in our District, and the addition of the Wallis House and Harriston Hill will add even more valuable property to the park,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “I am grateful to Cobb County for its willingness to make this donation, and I look forward to locals and visitors being able to visit and learn about these key locations in Civil War history for years to come.” Built by Josiah Wallis in 1853 and occupied by his family until the Civil War, the Wallis House was used as a hospital by the Confederate Army. During the Atlanta Campaign, the Wallis House was used as the headquarters for Union General William T. Sherman during the Battle of Kolb’s Farm. The house was also used as the headquarters for Union General Oliver O. Howard during the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain – the last major battle leading to the fall of Atlanta. Adjacent to the Wallis House is the 5.5-acre Harriston Hill, which was used by General Howard as a signaling position and offered a sweeping view of the valley leading to the Confederate line atop Kennesaw Mountain. The bill, which is also being reintroduced by U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), passed the House of Representatives unanimously in 2010. This legislation is co-sponsored by Georgia Reps. Buddy Carter and Lynn Westmoreland. The full text of the bill can be found here.
07.29.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement today after voting for the VA Accountability Act (H.R. 1994), legislation that aims to curb wasteful government spending and allows the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to remove employees who are not providing U.S. veterans with the highest standard of care: “In just seven months of serving the veterans of the 11th District, my office has opened and assisted-in far too many cases for the men and women who signed up to put their lives on the line for us, but are now having to fight to receive the care they were promised. The continued gross mismanagement by the VA, and other government agencies, has revealed a systemic issue within the federal government as a whole – unrestrained, centralized power, with little to no accountability. “The VA Accountability Act is a positive step toward restoring public trust and ensuring our veterans are first in line to receive the quality health care they deserve. As a result of this legislation, the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs will now have the authority to dismiss ‘bad actors’ or those who aren’t performing in the best interests of our veterans. This will help rein-in employee misconduct, curb government waste, and enact stronger safeguards against agency-wide corruption. “Our veterans should not be bumped to the back of the line for services they were promised and most definitely earned. This legislation not only sends a strong message to the VA that corruption at the highest levels must end, but it allows whistleblowers to sound the alarm without fear of agency retaliation.”
07.28.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will host a Town Hall meeting at the Cherokee Conference Center on Wednesday, August 5, 2015 from 6:00 – 7:15 p.m. During the meeting, Rep. Loudermilk will provide a legislative update on federal policy issues and listen to constituent concerns. Attendees will be given the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session. WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) WHAT: Town Hall Meeting WHEN: Wednesday, August 5, 2015 from 6:00 – 7:15 p.m. WHERE: Cherokee Conference Center 1130 Bluffs Parkway Canton, GA 30114
07.28.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2015, legislation that would block the federal government from enacting costly regulatory burdens without the consent of Congress: “From Fortune 500 Companies to small mom-and-pop operations, many business owners throughout Georgia’s 11th District have made one thing clear; today’s regulatory environment makes owning a business costly and significantly hinders job growth. The amount of federal regulations being handed down to American businesses is astounding, leaving numerous companies to close their doors under the sheer weight of government’s heavy-handed regulations. “Today’s passage of the REINS Act begins to put the brakes on the federal government’s out-of-control regulatory power, which has driven businesses out of the marketplace and raised the cost of living for American families. This legislation seeks to restore much needed checks and balances to the regulatory process, by requiring Congress to approve proposed regulations that would cost more than $100 million per year. “It’s time to remove government-imposed barriers to success and allow the free market to prosper. Instead of burying American businesses and families under endless piles of paperwork, let’s leave them with the only paper that matters - extra dollars in their pocketbooks at the end of each month.”
07.24.2015	Washington D.C. (July 24, 2015) | As Chairman of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology’s Oversight Subcommittee, Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) recently toured the nuclear reactors under construction at Plant Vogtle, a nuclear power plant owned and operated by the Southern Company in Waynesboro, Georgia. During the visit, Rep. Loudermilk and other subcommittee members toured the construction site for nuclear reactor units 3 & 4, the nation’s first Generation III+ reactors to be licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). “It has been 30 years since a nuclear power plant has been built in the United States and to see this project in person was an opportunity to see history in the making,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “The level of innovation in construction, security and safety at this site was truly impressive. For our nation’s economy to thrive, it’s critical that we develop all forms of energy, including safe and reliable nuclear energy. Georgia is leading the way with innovative new energy technologies that will help keep America competitive.” Also accompanying Rep. Loudermilk on the tour was NRC Commissioner Kristine Svinicki, who provided regulatory and technical guidance. Additionally, the Congressional delegation toured the Savannah River National Laboratory, which maintains the nation’s only hardened nuclear chemical separations plant still in operation.
07.23.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after co-sponsoring H. Res. 367. This resolution expresses strong opposition to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action reached by the P5+1 nations (United States, China, Russia, United Kingdom, France, and Germany), regarding the Iran nuclear deal and urges the House of Representatives to disapprove of the agreement as soon as possible. “This Administration has continually weakened our military and, through this deal, is strengthening a self-proclaimed enemy of the United States. This deal is a recipe for disaster, and could result in war. Even within hours of reaching the agreement, Iranian officials once again openly called for the destruction of America and Israel. “Iran is a known terrorist state, and would likely use the $150 billion in sanctions relief and frozen assets to grow their global terrorist network. As one of the leading supporters of Hezbollah and Hamas, Iran has repeatedly shown that it cannot be trusted. “Iran has made it clear that it will continue to develop its nuclear arsenal and inter-continental ballistic missile program, which endangers our homeland and our allies in Europe and the Middle East. These weapons of mass destruction present a grave threat to the safety and security of America, and I plan on doing everything in my power to stop this disastrous agreement from moving forward.” The full text of H. Res. 367 can be viewed HERE.
07.22.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement today after co-sponsoring H.R. 3118, the CFPB Repeal Act. This legislation would eliminate the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau created under the Dodd-Frank Act. “The CFPB and Dodd-Frank are like a malware virus to our economy. They were installed under false pretenses, infiltrated unintended areas, and have slowed the entire system. Together, they are directly responsible for the gradual disappearance of America’s community banks and, with them; millions of jobs have gone away or have not been created at all. “Small businesses are the drivers of job creation in our country, and they rely heavily on a strong banking system to thrive and grow. Because of CFPB’s overbearing regulatory environment, businesses are being forced to spend excessive amounts of time complying with endless layers of paperwork. Additionally, many financial institutions have stopped providing basic financial services out of fear of CFPB retaliation. “Funded through the Federal Reserve System, the CFPB is not subject to Congressional oversight or accountability through the annual Congressional appropriations process. What’s more, Dodd-Frank gave the CFPB unilateral discretion to interpret federal consumer finance law, giving the CFPB the ability to avoid checks and balances established by the Constitution. To make matters worse, the Bureau spent more than $215 million in taxpayer money to renovate its headquarters, and the agency has also been linked to the collection of large amounts of personal data on hardworking American citizens. “It’s time to begin rolling-back the burdensome regulations found within Dodd-Frank and revive the spirit of innovation and vision responsible for so many great advancements throughout our history. A strong, free financial system is essential to once again unleashing American exceptionalism.” H.R. 3118, the CFPB Repeal Act, can be viewed here.
07.16.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on today’s attack that killed four U.S. Marines in Chattanooga, Tennessee: “I am deeply saddened and enraged by the attacks on our U.S. servicemen in Chattanooga. My family and I are praying for the families of these brave Marines who lost their lives serving our nation. Initial intelligence reports indicate that ISIS may have been involved in this attack, and the Administration must act swiftly and decisively to protect our citizens and enact justice against those involved in carrying out this cowardly act of evil. An attack on any American is an attack on all of us, and we must remain vigilant in our fight to end this violence."
07.15.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) released the following statement on his decision to vote against a short-term funding patch for the Federal Highway Trust Fund: “Georgia cannot properly address its transportation challenges in the unstable environment of short-term extensions. This temporary fix will be the 34th time Congress has failed to provide a serious solution to transportation funding. We must have a long-term funding bill with tangible reforms.”
07.14.2015	“Under no circumstances should the U.S. negotiate with terrorists who have repeatedly shown they cannot be trusted. It’s time to put the interests of the American people and our allies first and stop catering to rogue states that support terrorism and continually call for our destruction. If this deal is not 100 percent in the best interest of the U.S. and our allies, especially Israel, I will work to stop it.”
07.10.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on yesterday’s Science, Space, and Technology Committee hearing, which questioned the Environmental Protection Agency’s Administrator Gina McCarthy on the agency’s overreaching regulatory agenda: “Federal Bureaucracies under this administration have consistently ignored Congress, the law and the American people. Yesterday, as I questioned EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy about the Waters of the US Rule, Administrator McCarthy acknowledged that the EPA failed to perform a required Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) on the Waters of the US regulation. Furthermore, evidence I presented during the hearing revealed that the administration made a political decision not to conduct an RIA and keep the American people in the dark on the impacts of this damaging regulation. “As Chairman of the Oversight subcommittee, I have repeatedly requested documents from the EPA. In addition to routinely failing to meet the committee’s requests, the EPA recently sent nearly 2,000 pages of documents to the committee which contained nothing but unintelligible random characters. “The overreaching regulations proposed by the current administration are not only killing our economy and jobs, but are stripping away the individual rights of hardworking Americans. We cannot sit idly by while this runaway agency continues to regulate us out of existence. Through my work on this and other areas, I will continue to demand transparency and adherence to the law by these agencies.” Watch video of Rep. Loudermilk’s questions to Administrator McCarthy below.
07.08.2015	Recently, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) signed on as a co-sponsor of H.R. 2802, the First Amendment Defense Act. This legislation will protect the First Amendment rights of all Americans – especially individuals of faith. The First Amendment Defense Act would prohibit the federal government from intruding on the individuals' right of conscience and safeguard churches, businesses, and organizations from being denied tax-exemptions, contracts, licenses, and certifications for adhering to traditional marriage views. Under this Act, churches could not lose their tax-exempt status for refusing to conduct same-sex marriages. The First Amendment Defense Act is an anti-government-bullying bill that protects all Americans from the government punishing and prosecuting them for following their religious convictions. Whether you agree or disagree with same sex-marriage is not the issue. What is at stake is whether we remain a nation that protects an individuals' right of conscience, or force all people to conform to a common belief system, dictated by the hand of big government,” said Rep. Loudermilk. The full text of H.R. 2802, the First Amendment Defense Act, can be read HERE.
06.29.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision on Michigan v. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), a legal challenge to the EPA’s damaging 2011 regulations that have closed power plants and destroyed jobs. “For far too long, the Obama Administration has been using the EPA to bypass the Constitutional role of Congress as the sole lawmaker for the Federal Government. However, the Supreme Court today ruled against the EPA and their draconian regulations that are killing our economy. While the fight against big government bureaucrats is not over, this will slow down their progress of killing US jobs.” Michigan v. Environmental Protection Agency
06.26.2015	Washington D.C. (June 26, 2015) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s Obergefell v. Hodges ruling: “Twice this week the Supreme Court has ignored the foundational intentions of the Constitution. Marriage has always been recognized in this nation as a religious institution, which the founders recognized is outside the realm of the federal government. Therefore, any recognition or licensing of marriage by government was left within the power of the states. In this decision, the Supreme Court fully stepped upon the principle of Federalism and the rights and will of the states regarding social and religious issues. Once again the courts have overstepped their boundaries and have engaged in social engineering by violating the basic premise of separation of powers and the will of the people.”
06.25.2015	Rep. Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on today’s Supreme Court ruling in King v. Burwell and his plans to launch an investigation into the collection of personally identifiable information through healthcare.gov: “With the Supreme Court’s ruling to uphold Obamacare’s health care subsidies, it is now more important than ever to push for a full repeal of the law. In this disappointing 6-3 ruling, the Supreme Court reinforced the dangerous idea that government knows what’s best for American families and our personal health care decisions. “Many Americans are suffering, including those in my home state of Georgia, because of skyrocketing health care costs associated with Obamacare. When this bill of goods was sold to the American people, we were told, “If you like your health plan, you can keep it.” Under Obamacare, the average American family pays nearly double – even triple – for the same or less coverage. When people are struggling simply to make ends meet, sticking American families with an exorbitant price tag for health insurance is unconscionable. “Obamacare is a system of broken promises, and the only prescription is a full repeal. The latest broken promise surrounds new evidence that suggests the Administration may have misled Congress and the American people through storing personal identifiable data on healthcare.gov – the website where Americans sign up for Obamacare. The exposure of over 11 million people would not only undermine the trust of Americans who were assured their data was not stored on these systems, but it would put many families and children at great risk. “I intend to diligently pursue this matter and ensure the illegal collection of data by our government is stopped, and the previously collected data is permanently removed. Our citizens deserve better than this, and I am committed to ensuring that America is once again a nation that is free, safe and full of opportunity.” Rep. Loudermilk recently broke news of the alleged collection of personally identifiable data through healthcare.gov in a speech given on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday, June 24, 2015. It can be viewed HERE.
06.24.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), has issued this statement on the passage of H.R. 2042 – the Ratepayer Protection Act of 2015: “Last year, the EPA proposed a new set of regulations on existing power plants, which would dramatically affect our economy if implemented. The Obama Administration has been doing its best to convince the American people that these new standards would achieve great progress for our nation, calling the proposal the ‘Clean Power Plan.’ “What the Administration does not want us to know is that these standards would wreak havoc on our economy and inflict enormous costs on the American consumer. According to the National Economic Research Associates, these regulations would increase electricity prices in my home state of Georgia by 12 percent. “The average American household already spends about $15,000 a year to comply with federal regulations, and it has been radical proposals like these which have caused our economy to stagnate throughout this Administration. “The EPA promotes these regulations with the promise that they would cut 30 percent of carbon pollution by the year 2030. My state has already reduced its carbon emissions by 33 percent from 2005 to 2012. Why is the Administration pursuing these unrealistic regulations when Georgia and other states have already dramatically reduced their emissions levels? “H.R. 2042 will halt the rule’s compliance deadlines until litigation on the rule has been completed. This bill will also allow the governor of any state to opt out of the rule’s requirements, if their state’s electricity rates would increase significantly. This common-sense piece of legislation is essential to bringing U.S. environmental policy back into the real world and preserving our ability to compete in the global economy.” H.R. 2042 passed the House by a vote of 247 to 180. Rep. Loudermilk delivered a speech in support of H.R. 2042, which can be viewed HERE.
06.23.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), has issued the following statement on the passage of his first bill, H.R. 1633 – the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Paid Administrative Leave Accountability Act of 2015: “The Department of Homeland Security has roughly 240,000 employees who work around the clock to protect the lives and liberties of Americans, and I am grateful for their dedicated service. However, due to lack of proper management and accountability, there are numbers of DHS employees who are staying home drawing a paycheck, while being investigated for acts of misconduct. “The Government Accountability Office reported that from 2011 – 2013 the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) provided its employees with over 1.5 million days of paid administrative leave, equating to over $380 million in taxpayer dollars. “DHS must do a better job of tracking employees under investigation for misconduct and, in a timely manner, take appropriate action to hold them accountable. Employees who tarnish the Department's reputation do not deserve paid vacations at taxpayer expense. “Americans are tired of the government carelessly giving away their future through mismanagement and thoughtless spending habits. My bill, H.R. 1633, requires DHS to implement an agency-wide policy regarding individuals who are on paid administrative leave for more than 6 months, being investigated for misconduct. This common-sense policy will help prevent fraud, alleviate waste, and safeguard taxpayer dollars.” Watch Rep. Loudermilk debate H.R. 1633 HERE.
06.19.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), the Oversight Subcommittee Chairman of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, sent letters to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy questioning recent media reports that the federal government is secretly storing the personal information of Americans who have looked for insurance using the HealthCare.gov website. “It appears that the information is stored for all individuals who open an account on the website – regardless of whether they sign up for coverage,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Furthermore, according to the news report, ‘consumers have no way of knowing’ that their personal information is being permanently stored by the Administration. What is even more concerning is the type of information that is being kept secretly.” According to the Department of Health and Human Services, personally identifiable information is being collected or maintained by this system and includes the following: social security numbers, dates of birth, names, mailing addresses, phone numbers, financial accounts information, military status, employment status, passport numbers, and taxpayer IDs. The letters state that “The Administration has never appeared to be forthright about the use and storage of personal information on HealthCare.gov, and has yet to explain the reason for indefinitely storing user information, particularly when some of the users did not even enroll on the website.” The letters request all documents and communications related to the data storage facility. The full letter to Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services can be found HERE. The full letter to White House Office of Science and Technology Policy can be found HERE.
06.16.2015	Washington D.C. (June 16, 2015) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will host a town hall meeting at the Kennesaw City Hall on Monday, June 29, 2015 from 6:00 – 7:15 p.m. During the town hall meeting, Rep. Loudermilk will provide a legislative update on federal policy issues and listen to constituent concerns. WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) WHAT: Town Hall Meeting WHEN: Monday, June 29, 2015 from 6:00 p.m. – 7:15 p.m. WHERE: Kennesaw City Hall, Council Chambers (Terrace Entry) 2529 J.O. Stephenson Avenue Kennesaw, GA 30144
06.12.2015	Washington D.C. (June 12, 2015) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1314, Trade Promotion Authority (TPA): “After weeks of reading and independent research by myself and staff regarding TPA, I believe this bill is needed in order to give Congress the level of oversight essential to controlling a President who has demonstrated a complete lack of regard for the rule of law. “With the passage of TPA, Congress is taking the lead in setting our nation’s trade priorities and guaranteeing that Congress has a seat at the table in negotiating international trade agreements. Trade Promotion Authority puts greater transparency and accountability at the forefront. This bill empowers Congress to sit in on negotiations, conduct vigorous oversight, and hold the Administration accountable. Under this legislation, the President is required to make any and all deals accessible to the public for 60 days before Congress can consider the agreement. Furthermore, if the President does not follow the rules of TPA, either House of Congress can independently remove TPA, without consent of the other chamber. “While the Executive branch has always had the constitutional authority to negotiate trade deals, this President has shown a disregard for our constitutional checks and balances. TPA acts as a safeguard to guarantee the rule of law and restrains the President from entering into secretive trade deals. “Most importantly, TPA does not give the President additional power; rather, it acts as a rulebook on Executive Power, setting the trade negotiation objectives for the President. If the President fails to comply, Congress can hit the brakes, cancel the vote, and stop the agreement. “TPA is essential to ensuring America remains competitive among our international peers and holding the President accountable. Simply put, strengthening American trade is not only good for business, but for the American people.” #### For more information Trade Promotion Authority please visit the TPA info page on this website by clicking HERE Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) represents Georgia's 11th Congressional District, which includes all of Bartow and Cherokee counties and portions of Cobb and Fulton counties. Rep. Loudermilk serves as a member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and Science, Space and Technology. He may be reached at (202) 225-2931 or by email at barry.loudermilk@mail.house.gov.
06.02.2015	Washington D.C. (June 2, 2015) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today announced that 15 students from Georgia’s 11th Congressional District have received appointments to attend a U.S. military service academy. “The 2015 service academy appointees from the 11th Congressional District are among our state’s best and brightest students, and I am extremely proud of each and every student for their desire to serve their country and fellow Americans,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “These students have all shown a high-level of leadership and academic excellence, and will represent the State of Georgia and the 11th District well.” Each year, students from across the nation receive nominations from members of Congress to attend U.S. service academies. All appointees are awarded a full four-year scholarship, which includes tuition, housing, and books. The 2015 appointments from the 11th Congressional District are as follows: U.S. Air Force Academy • Nicholas A. Searcy, Woodstock, Etowah High School • Deon W. Dodd, Acworth, North Cobb High School • Robert G. Mallinak, Woodstock, Kolbe Academy • Harry G. McMahon III, Acworth, Marietta High School • Amber L. Litteral, Cartersville, Adairsville High School • Zachary D. Yoder, Woodstock, Woodstock High School U.S. Coast Guard Academy • Colton E. Atkinson, Marietta, Marietta High School • William C. Boardman, Woodstock, McCallie School U.S. Naval Academy • Katherine P. Gooding, Atlanta, Mt. Pisgah Christian School U.S. Military Academy • Kenneth C. Brinson Jr., Kennesaw, Marist School • Harrison M. Floam, Marietta, Mt. Paran Christian School • Matthew B. Hoey, Marietta, Marist School • Samuel N. Jones, Woodstock, Etowah High School • Sarah Schwarzman, Ball Ground, Creekview High School • Emily B. Sexauer, Cartersville, Adairsville High School Additional information about the military academy nomination process and how to apply is available online at Loudermilk.house.gov.
05.18.2015	As part of a Congressional delegation with the Committee on Homeland Security, Rep. Barry Loudermilk traveled to the Middle East and Europe to examine the evolving security threats to the U.S. homeland. Specifically, the delegation assessed U.S. government and foreign partner efforts to shut down the flow of foreign fighters, many of whom return to their home countries in the West armed with combat training, extremist connections, and the desire to launch terror attacks. During the 10-day trip, the delegation met with government leaders and counterterrorism officials in Israel, Iraq, Turkey, Germany, Belgium, and France. The delegation also analyzed European counterterrorism programs, best practices to counter violent extremism, and the US/Coalition strategy to counter ISIS in Iraq. “Visiting 8 countries in 10 days was exhausting, but the dialogue with heads of state, foreign ministers, and counterterrorism experts was critical in working with ally nations to stem the tide of foreign fighters returning to the U.S. While we are leading the world in tracking and stopping terrorists returning from the conflict zone, we must have greater information-sharing from our European and Middle Eastern allies. I believe this trip will go a long way in developing our internal policies, as well as assisting other nations, in stopping the flow of terrorists throughout Europe and the Middle East,” said Rep. Barry Loudermilk. Led by Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), the Congressional delegation included Chairman Pete Sessions (R-Texas), Rep. Vern Buchanan (R-Fla.), Rep. Bill Keating (D-Mass.), Rep. John Katko (R-N.Y.), Rep. William Hurd (R-Texas), Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-Ga.), and Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-N.Y.)
05.14.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1191, the Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015: “The Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, which received broad bipartisan support, creates a review process that will allow Congress to reject an unacceptable nuclear deal with Iran. “The Islamic Republic of Iran has repeatedly shown that it cannot be trusted. As recently as a few months ago, Iran’s supreme leader was on record shouting ‘death to America’ amid nuclear negotiations, and demanding a complete removal of economic sanctions. With Iran’s continued defiance and unwillingness to cooperate with the international community, it is reckless and irresponsible to allow Iran to continue with its uranium enrichment program. “Lifting sanctions on Iran presents a clear danger to international security, and places the safety of every American at risk. Now is the time to stand firmly with the international community to dismantle Iran’s nuclear weapons capabilities and prevent them from receiving billions of dollars to further enrich their nuclear program. “America’s future rests on the decisions we make today, and we can’t afford to negotiate with rogue governments that seek to destroy our people and the fundamental principles our nation was founded upon.”
05.13.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act of 2015: “Two years ago today, Americans were shocked to learn of the grave atrocities being carried out by Dr. Kermit Gosnell, an abortionist convicted of killing babies born during ‘so called’ abortions. While Dr. Gosnell’s case made national headlines, millions of unborn children, capable of feeling pain, are losing their lives each year. “While the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36) does not ultimately put an end to all abortion, it is a crucial step toward establishing legal protections for innocent, unborn children and saving lives. According to a report by CNS News, roughly 10,850 abortions occur on pain-capable babies each year. H.R. 36 will save these children. “As a culture, we should not stand idle or refuse to act when given the opportunity to save lives. I am saddened this bill does not ultimately save the lives of all unborn babies, but I’m encouraged that lives will be saved that otherwise would not have been.”
05.13.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 2048, the USA Freedom Act: “Today the House passed the USA Freedom Act, which reigns in the National Security Agency and puts a stop to bulk data collection on U.S. citizens. The USA Freedom Act provides actual reforms, real transparency, and tangible accountability over the actions of the intelligence community and how they conduct surveillance. It also tackles the activities of the secretive Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. “Today we face the largest convergence of terrorists and foreign fighters in modern history, who regularly threaten the safety and security of American citizens. It is imperative that we provide the men and women of our Military and our Homeland Security Department with tools necessary to defend American citizens, while simultaneously protecting our Fourth Amendment right to privacy. This bill accomplishes both. “We face a technologically savvy enemy, and we cannot be naïve about the threats they pose. Intelligence gathering is important for the security of our nation; but, as an elected representative sworn to uphold the Constitution, it is my duty to ensure those actions do not violate the rights of our citizens. “Furthermore, Constitutional experts like Senators Mike Lee and Ted Cruz co-sponsored this measure in the US. Senate, and I am pleased the House acted on this today.”
04.23.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1731, the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act: “Everywhere, every day, Americans are connected in some way to the Internet. While our growing dependency on connectivity has improved our quality of life, it has made us extremely vulnerable to those who seek to exploit this information and disrupt our critical services. In our ever-evolving technological society, new highly-sophisticated cyber threats are emerging every day. A coordinated cyber-attack can interrupt our national defense systems, bring down portions of the power grid, affect the quality of our water supply or a private company’s network within a matter of minutes, jeopardizing the private security information of individuals worldwide. “The National Cyber Security Protection Advancement Act, H.R. 1731, provides a framework that allows the private sector to work, voluntarily, with the Department of Homeland Security to share pertinent cyber security information. Due to the clandestine nature of cyber warfare, a network could be hit at any time; and this bill will allow for the private sector and government to cooperate to protect against information theft, disclosure, or militant attacks. “As a former IT professional with over 30 years’ experience in both the government and private sector, and as a Constitutional conservative, I appreciated the opportunity to work on this bill to make sure it provided protection of individual liberties and enhanced security for our critical information systems.”
04.16.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement today on the passage of H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015: “At every turn, the federal government finds creative ways to continue to fund their wasteful spending habits. After a lifetime of confiscating much of our hard earned living, the idea of letting the IRS get one last shot on our way out is offensive. While most people send flowers to a funeral, the IRS sends a tax bill. "Though Will Rogers stated, “the only difference between death and taxes is that death doesn’t get worse every time Congress meets,” Congress turned the tide today by allowing Americans to leave the fruits of a lifetime of labor to their children, instead of surrendering it to sustain an out of control government. “Heaven doesn't charge an entry fee and the government shouldn’t charge an exit fee.”
04.15.2015	On Tuesday, the Committee on Homeland Security unanimously passed bipartisan legislation to improve Cybersecurity by encouraging voluntary information-sharing about cyber threats between the private sector and government. To ensure a greater level of accountability, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) introduced an amendment to the bill, which passed by voice vote and will require all reports made by this act to sunset after seven years of enactment. “Cyber space is the new battleground for a multitude of adversaries. Foreign nations, international terrorist organizations and organized crime regularly target our citizens, businesses, and government,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Unlike traditional combat operations, cyber attackers don't require sophisticated weaponry to carry out their warfare. On the cyber battlefield, a single individual with a laptop computer can wreak havoc on businesses, the economy and our infrastructure. “Because of the ever changing environment of information technology, the tools, techniques and methodologies used to protect against cyber attacks will evolve within the next few years. To ensure that all reports given to Congress remain pertinent and relevant, my amendment sunsets all reporting requirements after seven years. This will not only force future Congresses to revise and perfect these reporting requirements, but it will save taxpayer dollars by automatically eliminating labor intensive reports that may no longer be relevant.” H.R. 1731, the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement (NCPA) Act of 2015, was introduced by Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. John Ratcliffe, R-Texas, chairman of the Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies Subcommittee. A bill summary is available HERE. A list of amendments and roll call votes is available HERE.
04.14.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) introduced H.R. 1764 today, the United States Chief Technology Officer Act. This legislation would improve transparency in the federal government by requiring the United States Chief Technology Officer (USCTO) to be one of the Senate-confirmed Associate Director positions already in place at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). This legislation will guarantee that the future USCTO is properly vetted through the Senate confirmation process and ensure proper Congressional oversight of the USCTO. “Since OSTP policy only permits Senate-confirmed staff to testify before Congress, the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee was faced with serious challenges in conducting a thorough, fact-finding investigation after the failed roll-out of HealthCare.gov,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “Since programs like Obamacare – and others like it – cost millions in hard earned taxpayer money, trust and accountability should always be a top priority across all areas of government. This legislation is crucial to ensuring that Americans are well informed on issues of national importance and would bring an added measure of transparency to federal technological practices.” Currently, there are no existing laws regarding the duties of the U.S. Chief Technology Officer. In 2013, it was reported that the USCTO was closely involved in the development, implementation, and subsequent repair of HealthCare.gov; however, due to current White House policy, the USCTO was not permitted to appear before Congress. If signed into law, the USCTO would be able to testify before Congress when the need arises. The chief responsibilities of the USCTO position would include promoting security and privacy protection policies for all Federal information technology systems. The USCTO would also be required to provide an annual report to Congress on the current state of information systems across all Federal Agencies. “This good government bill seeks to bring more accountability to the White House by requiring the U.S. Chief Technology Officer to be responsive to Congress. I congratulate Rep. Loudermilk for introducing this bill that will promote a more effective and efficient government. I appreciate his taking the initiative to make the federal government more accountable,” said House Science, Space, and Technology Chairman Lamar Smith. Original cosponsors of the bill include: Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Rep. Bill Johnson (R-Ohio), Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-Okla.), and Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-Va.). For additional information on the United States Chief Technology Officer Act, click here.
03.31.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) recognized Leah Ruff as the winner of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition at an awards ceremony held at the Cherokee Arts Center on Friday, March 27, 2015. Ms. Ruff attends Cherokee High School and won the Grand Prize Award for her oil painting entitled, “Chevy Man.” As the winner of the 2015 competition, Ms. Ruff will receive an art scholarship and two tickets to fly to Washington D.C. for the Congressional Art Competition ceremony on June 24, 2015. Ms. Ruff’s artwork will also be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. “The level of artistic talent represented within the 11th Congressional District is astounding, and I am extremely proud of all the students who entered the 2015 competition,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “As I walk through the halls of the Capitol, I am constantly amazed by the creative artwork on display from students across our country. While these pieces are all extraordinary, I believe every entry submitted from the 11th District is worthy of being displayed in the halls of the U.S. Capitol.” Finalists from the 11th Congressional District include: First Place Winner Student: Leah Ruff Art Piece Title: “Chevy Man” Medium: Oil on panel School: Cherokee High School Teacher: Ms. Chris Lambert Second Place Winner Student: Kathryn Kampovsky Artwork Title: “Sad Old Man” Medium: Graphite and pastel School: Creekview High School Teacher: Linda Nicholson Third Place Winner Student: Ashli Melder Artwork Title: “The Forest’s Goddess” Medium: Photograph School: Mt. Paran Christian School Teacher: Joe McSpadden Honorable Mention #1 Student: Emily Schuvart Artwork Title: “Painted Skin" Medium: Oil on Paper School: Etowah High School Teacher: Shannah Dean Honorable Mention #2 Student: Haley Tucker Artwork Title: “Colorado” Medium: Digital Print School: The Lovett School Teacher: Kary Walter For the 2015 Congressional Art Competition, 61 entries were submitted from 15 schools across Georgia’s 11th District. The artwork will be on display at the Cherokee Arts Center until Friday, April 3, 2015. The Cherokee Art Center's Executive Director, Mary Akers, was responsible for coordinating the student art exhibition and selecting this year's panel of judges. To view photos from this year's event, visit Rep. Loudermilk's Facebook page.
03.30.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) recently introduced his first piece of legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives – H.R. 1633, the DHS Paid Administrative Leave Accountability Act of 2015. This legislation would require improvements to the tracking and reporting of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employees who are under investigation and are placed on paid administrative leave. Currently, federal agencies have the authority to grant paid administrative leave – an excused absence without loss of pay or charge to individual – and can set policies governing its use. Oftentimes though, employees are put on paid administrative leave for indefinite periods of time, which has resulted in fraud and abuse within the system. "We must hold government agencies accountable and ensure the responsible use of taxpayer money,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “The Government Accountability Office reported in October 2014 that from fiscal years 2011 through 2013, DHS employees charged approximately 1.5 million paid administrative leave days, which amounts to over $380 million. Some of these DHS employees were on paid administrative leave for over two years while lingering investigations for their misconduct were underway. This abuse of taxpayer funds must stop, and this bill will help prevent DHS employees from taking money out of the pockets of hardworking taxpayers by establishing an accountability system and severely cutting down on waste, fraud, and abuse.” In an effort to improve accountability and safeguard taxpayer dollars, H.R. 1633 would direct the Chief Human Capital Officer (CHCO) of DHS to monitor the number of employees on paid administrative leave and require the CHCO to develop and implement a department-wide administrative leave policy. Under this legislation, the CHCO must report all employees under investigation for misconduct who claim administrative leave for more than six months, and submit a comprehensive report of all associated costs. “I applaud Rep. Loudermilk for his dedication to saving taxpayers’ dollars within his first 100 days in Congress by sponsoring H.R. 1633 – the DHS Paid Administrative Leave Accountability Act of 2015,” said Chairman McCaul. “This legislation will help curb waste, fraud, abuse and ensure DHS is efficiently and effectively meeting its critical national security missions.” For additional information on the DHS Paid Administrative Leave Accountability Act of 2015, click here.
03.25.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement today on the passage of the Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Resolution, “A Balanced Budget For A Stronger America.” “The FY2016 Budget resolution, which passed the House today, provides a strategic framework for balancing the federal budget in less than 10 years. This ambitious plan would reduce government spending by $5.5 trillion, call for a simpler, fairer tax code, repeal Obamacare, place entitlement programs on a sustainable path, prioritize defense spending, and help pay off our national debt. “Of the six budget proposals, the recommendations presented by Budget Chairman Tom Price and the Republican Study Committee were the only solutions that seek to reform Washington’s unrestrained culture of government spending. While both plans outlined a strong foundation for restoring fiscal responsibility in Washington, and I supported both, Chairman Price’s amended version of the budget was ultimately adopted. “This multi-pronged approach to budgeting will realign our national spending priorities and ensure the efficient use of taxpayers’ dollars. "As global tensions continue to escalate, balancing our budget is now a matter of national security. In order to provide for the common defense, we must make military funding a top priority and ensure our servicemen and women have the resources they need to defend our homeland. To counteract the negative effects of sequestration on our nation’s military, the FY2016 Budget calls for an additional $387 billion in Defense Department funding over a 10-year period. The plan also allocates roughly $613 billion in funding for the Department of Defense’s Overseas Contingency Operations fund – a program that is critical to ensuring our preparedness for wartime operations. “As a nation, we’ve reached an economic tipping point that can only be reversed through bold, deliberative action that addresses the federal government’s out-of-control spending and historic debt. While this $19 trillion dollar debt was not created overnight, we must work together to ensure future generations are not stuck with a hefty tax bill from a government that wants to spend now and pay later.”
03.24.2015	Washington D.C. (March 24, 2015) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will announce the winners of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition reception at the Cherokee Arts Center on Friday, March 27, 2015 from 6:00 – 7:00 p.m. The Congressional Art Competition recognizes the artistic talents of high school students throughout the 11th Congressional District. All artwork submitted for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition will be featured as part of a special exhibition at the Cherokee Arts Center from March 25 – April 3, 2015. In addition, the first place artwork from each congressional district will be displayed at the U.S. Capitol for an entire year WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) WHAT: 2015 Congressional Art Competition Reception WHEN: Friday, March 27, 2015 6:00 – 7:00 p.m. WHERE: The Cherokee Arts Center 94 North Street Canton, GA 30114
03.23.2015	Washington D.C. (March 23, 2015) | The Office of Congressman Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) will host a District Office Grand Opening and Ribbon Cutting on Thursday, April 2, 2015 from 1:00 – 3:30 p.m. in Woodstock, GA. The ribbon cutting will take place at 1:30 p.m. All constituents are invited to attend. WHO: Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) WHAT: District Office Grand Opening and Ribbon Cutting WHEN: Thursday, April 2, 2015 from 1:00 – 3:30 p.m. WHERE: District Office Headquarters 9898 Highway 92, Suite 100 Woodstock, GA 30188
03.18.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement today on the passage of H.R. 1030 – The Secret Science Reform Act of 2015. “Today’s passage of the Secret Science Reform Act of 2015, H.R. 1030, is critically important to ensuring the use of open, transparent science at the Environmental Protection Agency. While this bill will not ultimately stop regulatory abuse by this or any other administration, it will pull back the veil of secrecy and give the people some transparency. “We owe it to the American people to restore transparency in the EPA’s regulatory process and ensure the EPA uses the best available science.”
03.03.2015	Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) issued the following statement on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address before today’s joint session of Congress: “I firmly stand with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and our allies in opposing a nuclear-capable Iran. As tensions continue to escalate in the Middle East, now is not the time to lift sanctions on Iran’s nuclear weapons program. “In comparison to neighboring countries, Israel represents one of the smallest nations in the Middle East; but, despite its limited geography, Israel remains at the center of the world stage and faces a constant barrage of violence from surrounding Arab nations. These same nations that are relentless in their pursuit to wipe Israel from the face of the Earth are also the very ones seeking to expand their nuclear armament. “I strongly urge the U.S. State Department and the international community to carefully consider the potential repercussions of allowing hostile nations such as Iran to expand or grow their nuclear weapons programs. A nuclear-capable Iran presents a formidable challenge to Israel’s very existence, and we must stand firm to defend our greatest ally against those who would seek its destruction. “Additionally, Iran is a threat to the United States and our national interests, both overseas and at home. With a long history of directly supporting terrorism against the United States and its allies, a nuclear-armed Iran would significantly jeopardize the safety and security of all Americans.”
02.26.2015	Washington D.C. (February 26, 2015) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today issued the following statement on the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) decision to approve Net Neutrality: “Once again, DC bureaucrats are finding new ways to inflict damage on the economy. While Americans are trying to survive the onslaught of regulations from agencies like the EPA and policies like Obamacare, Democrats in Washington now want to add the internet to the growing list of things they feel need government supervision. In today’s over-regulated economy, the internet has thrived and shown us firsthand how liberating a free market could be. “Thousands of jobs and incredible leaps in progress have been made possible by the freedom the internet provides and we can’t let Net Neutrality slow us down. How many more big government policies must Americans weather before Washington wakes up to the damage they are doing? The government is supposed to protect our rights, not restrict them at every turn. “I believe FCC Commissioner Ajit Pai said it best, “Net Neutrality is a solution that won’t work, to a problem that doesn’t exist. Chairman Tom Wheeler’s plan to regulate Internet service providers as public utilities — establishing government standards for content, speed and price — will slow the speed and growth of American networks to that of European networks. “Even Democrat Senator Maria Cantwell agreed and said recently that Net Neutrality is “taking a step” toward European Internet regulation. I am strongly opposed to the FCC’s decision to approve Net Neutrality, and I plan to do everything in my power to stop these burdensome regulations from moving forward.”
02.25.2015	Washington D.C. (February 25, 2015) | In response to the threat from extremists fighting overseas and the danger they pose to the U.S. homeland, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today was appointed by the U.S. Homeland Security Committee to serve as part of a bipartisan “Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel.” “We are experiencing a historic convergence of foreign fighters joining the ranks of extreme Islamic terrorist organizations,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “From countries all around the world, including the United States, people are traveling to Syria and other nations to be trained and armed to carry out acts of terrorism. The United States remains one of the premier targets of these organizations, which places the safety and security of every American at risk. We must explore every avenue to stop these actors of evil before they are able to carry out their mission. This task force is critical to pull back the veil of political correctness and look at the real threat we face. I look forward to working with the other members of this bipartisan task force, law enforcement and other agencies to ensure we have the policies, tools and resources needed for our nation to remain free, safe and full of opportunity.” Comprised of five Republicans and three Democrats, the Task Force will assess the U.S. government’s efforts to obstruct terrorist travel and to keep violent extremists from entering the United States. The Task Force will meet with government agencies, top officials, outside experts, and others to generate policy solutions and develop legislative recommendations to mitigate the threat. Members of the Task Force include: Rep. John Katko, R-N.Y., Republican Lead; Rep. Loretta Sanchez, D – Calif., Democratic Lead; Rep. Will Hurd, R-Texas; Rep. Barry Loudermilk, R- Ga.; Rep. Martha McSally, R –Ariz.; Rep. Donald Payne, Jr., D –N.J.; Rep. John Ratcliffe, R- Texas; Rep. Filemon Vela, D-Texas.
02.24.2015	Washington D.C. (February 24, 2015) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on President Obama's Keystone XL pipeline veto: “With one stroke of his veto pen, President Obama has blocked the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline – a project that was expected to provide thousands of jobs for hardworking Americans. Inexplicably, he's using that very same pen to issue work permits for an additional five million illegal immigrants. "Congress has followed through on its promise to create a favorable environment for job creation. Why won’t the president live up to his own rhetoric and pass a bill that provides jobs for more Americans? “We can no longer afford to pass up on sound energy policies like the Keystone XL pipeline. As tensions continue to rise in the Middle East, we must do everything possible to reduce our reliance on foreign oil and secure American energy independence."
02.19.2015	Washington D.C. (February 19, 2015) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) today announced the kick-off of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition, a contest that recognizes the artistic talents of high school students in the 11th Congressional District and nationwide. “I may be biased, but I believe some of the most talented young artists live right here in the 11th Congressional District,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “The winners of this competition will not only have their artwork displayed at the U.S. Capitol, but will have the opportunity to share this exciting accomplishment with their friends and family for years to come.” Launched in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition recognizes the nation’s top visual artists from high schools across the nation. Sponsored by the Congressional Institute, this annual competition allows students to compete for the opportunity to publicly display their artwork at the U.S. Capitol. The competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 11th Congressional District. All of the artwork submitted for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition will be featured as part of a special exhibition at the Cherokee Arts Center from March 25 – April 3, 2015. A panel of local artists will serve as judges and determine the overall winners. The artwork must be delivered to Rep. Barry Loudermilk’s Woodstock Office between March 17 – 20, 2015. The final deadline to submit entries is 5:00 p.m. on March 20. The office is located at 9898 Hwy. 92, Woodstock, GA, 30188. For additional information on how to enter, please contact Rep. Loudermilk’s office at (770) 429 -1776. To view the official rules and regulations, visit the United States House of Representative’s Congressional Art Competition webpage.
02.03.2015	Washington D.C. (February 3, 2015) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has released the following statement today on the passage of H.R. 596 – a bill that would fully repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: “Georgia businesses and families deserve quality, patient-centered health care that does not break the bank. Under Obamacare, health insurance premiums have nearly doubled, leaving Georgians with less disposable income and limited ability to choose the insurance plan that best suits their needs. “Today’s vote signals a strong departure from business-as-usual and builds a solid foundation for restoring free-market solutions and lowering the cost of health care in America. “The people of this great nation entrusted us to take decisive action against the president’s failed policies, and I strongly urge my colleagues in the Senate to take swift action on repealing Obamacare once and for all.”
02.02.2015	Washington D.C. (February 2, 2015) | The Science, Space and Technology Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight, chaired by Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R –GA), will hold a hearing on Tuesday, February 3, 2015 at 10:00 a.m. to investigate the alleged misappropriation of taxpayer funds by the National Ecological Observatory Network Inc. (NEON) – an environmental non-profit funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF). “Taxpayer money should be spent responsibly, with efficient management and oversight,” said Rep. Barry Loudermilk. “If there are loopholes out there allowing unethical spending to occur, then we need to uncover this and make sure that it is no longer allowed to happen.” The Science, Space, and Technology Committee held its first hearing to investigate the matter in December 2014. The hearing discussed the findings of two financial audits of the NEON Project conducted by NSF’s Office of Inspector General (OIG) and the Defense Contract Audit Agency, which discovered that NEON spent taxpayer dollars on typically unallowable costs, including a Christmas party, professional lobbying, coffee services, liquor, and a trip to France. The Subcommittee on Oversight has general and special investigative authority on all matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Established in 1958, the Science, Space, and Technology Committee has jurisdiction over all non-defense federal scientific research and development. The Committee is responsible for overseeing programs at several federal agencies, including NASA, the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Science Foundation, and the Federal Highway Administration – among many others. “The Subcommittee on Oversight plays a critical role in holding federal agencies accountable, ensuring transparency and the efficient use of taxpayer dollars,” said Rep. Loudermilk. “With extensive experience having served as Chair of the Georgia State Senate Science and Technology Committee, Barry Loudermilk is an ideal candidate to chair the Science Committee’s Oversight Subcommittee,” said Science, Space and Technology Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas). “Strategic and well-managed investments in research and development will help shape our nation’s future. This Subcommittee will play an important role in ensuring our nations’ scientific enterprise is efficient, effective and accountable. We have important work ahead of us in the 114th Congress. The Science Committee will benefit from Rep. Loudermilk's leadership and expertise.” The Science, Space and Technology Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight will be webcast live at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, February 3, 2015 at http://science.house.gov/hearing/subcommittee-oversight-and-subcommittee-research-and-technology-joint-hearing-nsf-s#.
01.30.2015	Washington D.C. (January 30, 2015) | Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on the U.S. House of Representatives’ plan to consider a full repeal of Obamacare: “Obamacare is not the prescription for health care in America. At best, the not-so-Affordable Care Act has been a poison pill that Americans have had to swallow – all the way to the bank. “When this sweeping health care law was passed, President Obama promised the American people, “if you like your health insurance plan, you can keep it.” Similar to many of his other failed promises, Americans are now suffering the most. The average American now pays nearly double for the same or less coverage than they had before, and many can no longer use the plans they were promised to keep. “Government-run health care is not the magic elixir for our nation’s health care ills, and I intend to vote yes to a full repeal of Obamacare when it comes up for a House vote next week. “Republicans are working toward a truly affordable, market-based solution that puts Americans back in control of their health care needs – not the federal government.”
01.26.2015	U.S. Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) recently spent four days touring the Southwest border with fellow members of the House Homeland Security Committee. Led by Committee Chairman Michael McCaul, the delegation examined security along several major cities along the U.S. border, including San Diego, California, Tuscan and Sierra Vista, Arizona, and McAllen, Texas. share: f t Washington D.C. (January 26, 2015) | U.S. Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) recently spent four days touring the Southwest border with fellow members of the House Homeland Security Committee. Led by Committee Chairman Michael McCaul, the delegation examined security along several major cities along the U.S. border, including San Diego, California, Tuscan and Sierra Vista, Arizona, and McAllen, Texas. “My four day visit to the Southern border was an eye opening experience that further strengthened my belief that improving the physical security of our borders is paramount to stopping the flow of illegal immigration,” said Rep. Barry Loudermilk. “While border security should be the first and foremost priority of Congress, without major reforms of failed interior enforcement policies, we will never be able to completely curb the tide of illegal immigration.” During the tour, members of the congressional delegation met with border patrol agents, the U.S. Coast Guard, and members of the local community to assess the evolving security threats along the nation’s southwest border. Specifically, members were given both aerial and ground tours of border security infrastructure, including security checkpoints, maritime port security operations, tunnel detection technology, and the use of unmanned aerial systems. The delegation also explored opportunities to improve inter-governmental cooperation between the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense in securing the U.S. border. “Properly securing our borders from illegal immigration, drug and human trafficking, and potential terrorist activity is labor intensive and expensive, but it is a Constitutional role of our federal government,” said Rep. Barry Loudermilk. This week, the U.S. House of Representatives is expected to vote on H.R. 399 – The Secure Our Borders First Act of 2015. If passed into law, this legislation would require the Secretary of Homeland Security to maintain operational control of the border and ensure the enforcement of pre-existing immigration laws.
01.22.2015	U.S. Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) has issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 7 – the “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015.” “Today, I proudly supported the passage of H.R. 7 – the “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015.” This legislation would effectively undo one of the most controversial provisions of Obamacare, which provides coverage for elective abortions through cost-sharing subsidies and federal tax credits. “As one of the millions of Americans who oppose abortion outright, I certainly do not believe taxpayers should be forced to fund the taking of innocent lives.”
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Barry Loudermilk was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Barry Loudermilk was elected to serve as representative of Georgia’s 11th Congressional District. Representative Loudermilk was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
