03.12.2019	Washington, D.C. – The Office of Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) has begun accepting submissions for the 2019 Congressional Art Competition. Each spring, a nationwide art competition is sponsored by the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize and encourage artistic talent in each congressional district. All high school students (public, private, or homeschooled) in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District are eligible to participate. “The artistic ability of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District’s students is something to be amazed at. The Third District is home to a number of gifted young artists who deserve to have the opportunity to share their work with the rest of the country,” said Congressman Lucas. “It is my honor to once again be a host of the Congressional Art Competition. I look forward to recognizing the many artists of Western Oklahoma and ask that families and friends help spread the word.” Those that are interested in participating can find all the information related to the 2019 Congressional Art Competition at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition. Entrants must deliver their artwork to 10952 NW Expressway, Suite B, Yukon, OK 73099 by close of business on Friday, April 19, 2019. If you have any questions or need more information, please contact Allison Litterell at (405) 373-1958.
03.11.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold town hall meetings in Harmon County, Greer County, and Jackson County on Monday, March 18 and in Kiowa County and Washita County on Tuesday, March 19. Residents around this location are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and seeking input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, March 18, 2019 Harmon County Town Hall Meeting 10:00-11:00 a.m. Hollis Civic Center 208 W. Jones Street Hollis, OK 73550 Greer County Town Hall Meeting 1:00- 2:00 p.m. Greer County Chamber of Commerce 119 E. Jefferson Street Mangum, OK73554 Jackson County Town Hall Meeting 3:00-4:00 p.m. Museum of the Western Prairie 1100 Memorial Drive Altus, OK 73521 Tuesday, March 19, 2019 Kiowa County Town Hall Meeting 9:00-10:00 a.m. Stanley Building 300 S. Washington Street Hobart, OK 73651 Washita County Town Hall Meeting 11:00 a.m.- 12:00 p.m. Cordell Police Department Precinct Room 105 W. Main Street Cordell, OK 73632
02.26.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) released the following statement after voting to oppose the termination of President Donald Trump’s national emergency declaration: “The constitutional authority of providing appropriations to our nation’s vital programs and various agencies and departments is one of the most important roles Congress is granted. Since the first appropriations bill in 1789, Congress has executed its duties and provided funding for our nation’s national defense as well as our agricultural producers. Unfortunately, Congressional Democrats are refusing to address the national security and humanitarian crisis at the Southern border. Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have voted time and time again to secure our nation’s borders and improve security at our ports of entry. While I am cautious of the use of national emergencies which reprograms appropriated funds, I am committed to addressing the ongoing crisis at our Southern border. While the debate regarding our nation’s border security is ongoing, I am committed to working with my colleagues on building an immigration system that ends illegal immigration and protects our country.” On February 15, 2019, President Donald Trump signed a Presidential Proclamation on Declaring a National Emergency Concerning the Southern Border of the United States. President Donald Trump issued this declaration under the authority of the National Emergencies Act.
02.22.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) released the following statement praising the President’s signing of H.R. 439, the “National FFA Organization’s Federal Charter Amendments Act” into law: “The National FFA Organization has deep roots in Oklahoma and as an Oklahoma FFA alumnus, I was proud to support this piece of legislation. Further strengthening agricultural education, leadership development, and work-based learning for students, the National FFA Organization’s Federal Charter Amendments Act will better serve the nearly 670,000 young leaders who proudly call themselves members of the FFA. Oklahoma’s future is in good hands thanks to our state’s young leaders.” The National FFA Organization’s Federal Charter Amendments Act updates the federal charter of the FFA, which was granted to the National FFA Organization in 1950 while also allowing FFA to choose its own Board of Directors. The bill also provides the flexibility for National FFA to increase the number of national officers, providing the opportunity to increase membership as the organization continues to grow. President Donald J. Trump signed H.R. 439 into law on Thursday, February 21, 2019.
02.22.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank D. Lucas (OK-03) released the following statement announcing the recent hiring of Patrick Bond as his Communications Director: “I am pleased to announce Patrick Bond’s new role as Communications Director on my staff. I know his experience and expertise will serve Oklahoma well as we keep the folks at home informed of all that is happening both here and back in Washington, D.C.” Prior to joining Lucas’ staff, Patrick worked for Alabama Governors Robert Bentley and Kay Ivey, and most recently for Alabama’s most senior representative, Congressman Robert B. Aderholt. An Alabaster, Alabama native, Patrick is a graduate of The University of Alabama. Oklahomans who wish to stay connected to Congressman Frank Lucas’ work in Washington, D.C. and around the state should visit www.lucas.house.gov, follow him on social media @RepFrankLucas, or sign up for his e-newsletter.
12.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) applauds the passage of the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 2 – Agricultural Improvement Act in both the House and Senate. “I am pleased my colleagues in the House and Senate have acted to pass the 2018 Farm Bill,” said Congressman Lucas. “This legislation builds upon the successes of the 2014 Farm Bill by protecting the safety net for producers and ensuring our fellow citizens have access to affordable, high-quality food. Low commodity prices have created a challenging environment for our country’s farmers and ranchers, so the farm safety net is more important than ever in providing producers with much-needed economic certainty.” Click Here to view the Conference Report
12.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) mourns the loss of former President George H. W. Bush. Congressman Lucas released the following statement: “The first time I met George W. H. Bush he was Vice President of the United State and in the early stages of his successful run for President in 1988. I noted that day, that though he was a man of wealth from a very old stabilized east coast family, he wore a simple Timex watch and doodled patterns with a pencil on a piece of paper as he discussed every possible issue that could matter to a group of Oklahomans. I left that meeting impressed with him as a person and a knowledgeable leader.”
11.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) was named the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Congressman Lucas released the following statement: “I am grateful to the members of the Republican Steering Committee and our conference for entrusting me with the position of Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. As the Democrats retake control of the House, I look forward to leading my Republican colleagues in holding the new majority accountable and promoting a conservative agenda.” The Science, Space, and Technology Committee has jurisdiction over programs at NASA, the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Science Foundation, the Federal Aviation Administration, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology. The Committee oversees agency budgets of $42 billion, where the primary focus is on research and development. Rep. Lucas has been serving on the Science, Space, and Technology Committee since 1999 and Vice-Chair of the Committee since 2015.
11.19.2018	SURESNES, FRANCE – With the world reflecting on the centennial of the Armistice of World War I, U.S. Rep. Frank Lucas (OK-3) laid a wreath this past Saturday at Suresnes American Cemetery and Memorial just outside of Paris, France to honor a fallen Oklahoma native who lost his life in “The Great War.” Lucas laid the wreath at the gravesite of Private John A. Butler, who served in the 344th Field Artillery Regiment, 90th Division of the U.S. Army. A Veteran of World War I, he passed away on August 29, 1918. His division was one of the units that did not exist prior to US entry into WWI, and it was formed by creating a cadre of experienced officers and sergeants and filling the ranks with new conscripts. The division was organized in Sep 1917 in Oklahoma, and the first wave of new recruits came from Texas and Oklahoma. In addition to laying the wreath, Lucas also participated in a memorial ceremony at Suresnes Cemetery to honor other Americans who lost their lives in World War I. “Though a century has now passed since Private Butler and his comrades were laid in eternal rest just outside of Paris, I was proud to honor their bravery and memory today,” said Rep. Frank Lucas. “Like young American men and women, from every generation, they went off to fight for our freedom and never got to come home. We owe them everything.” Lucas was joined at the ceremony by other members of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Representatives were in Paris this past weekend participating in the Franklin Center’s and The Ripon Society’s 34th Annual Transatlantic Capital to Capital Exchange. Also participating in Saturday’s ceremony were former U.S. Reps. Dave Camp (MI-4) and Connie Morella (MD-8). Camp serves as the Chairman of the Franklin Center, and is the former Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Morella serves as the Chairwoman Emeritus of the Franklin Center, and is the former Ambassador to Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development from 2003-2007. She also served on the American Battle Monuments Commission, which was created by Congress in 1923 and is the guardian of America’s overseas commemorative memorials and cemeteries. Located just outside of Paris, Suresnes is one of those cemeteries. Over 1,500 American Service Members and volunteers who lost their lives in World War I are interred at the cemetery along with 24 unknown dead from World War II. Bronze tablets on the walls of the chapel record the names of 974 soldiers missing in action. Originally serving as a temporary cemetery for the American Hospital of Paris in 1917 toward the end of World War I, General Pershing selected it as the first site of nine permanent American Cemeteries. Saturday’s ceremony and wreath laying at Suresnes coincided with other events held in France and throughout Europe to mark the centennial of the end of World War I.
11.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) announced he will run for Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Congressman Lucas released the following statement: “I have recently begun informing my colleagues in the House GOP Conference that I intend to run to be the Ranking Republican at the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology in the 116th Congress. As the current Vice-Chairman of the Science Committee, I look forward to discussing my candidacy and vision for the committee with my colleagues. I will remain an active member of the House Financial Services and Agriculture committees in the next Congress and look forward to serving on those committees under the leadership of Chief Deputy Whip McHenry and Chairman Conaway. Mike is working diligently to get our farmers and ranchers a new Farm Bill before the end of the year, and Patrick will do an outstanding job as Ranking Republican at Financial Services.”
10.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold a town hall meeting in Cheyenne on October 23. Residents around this location are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and seeking input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, October 23, 2018 Cheyenne Town Meeting 9:30 – 10:30AM Washita Battlefield 18555 Highway 47A Cheyenne, OK 73628
10.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold a town hall meeting in Guymon on October 18. Residents around this location are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and seeking input on legislation currently before Congress. Thursday, October 18, 2018 Guymon Town Meeting 1:30 – 2:30PM Texas County Extension Office 301 North Main Street Guymon, OK 73942
10.01.2018	Today, the House passed H.R. 4753, the Federal Reserve Supervision Testimony Clarification Act, sponsored by Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03). This bill mandates that in the absence of a Vice Chair of Supervision at the Federal Reserve, someone from the Federal Reserve Board is designated to appear before Congress to testify on supervisory issues. “Dodd-Frank established the Vice Chair for Supervision position to oversee those efforts, but the first confirmed appointee to that position took office only last year, a full seven years since Dodd-Frank,” said Rep. Frank Lucas. “During that time, Congress received minimal testimony on regulatory issues from the Fed. Typically, other officials who don’t oversee regulatory efforts gave testimony in this regard. But the key point is Dodd-Frank requires only the Vice Chair for Supervision to give that testimony. While we are grateful that other Fed officials decided to speak to Congress on regulatory issues, they didn’t have to under the law.” Despite the simplicity, this bill is about the oversight authority of Congress. Congress gave the Federal Reserve much greater regulatory authority under Dodd-Frank, so it is vitally important that Congress hears from it on regulatory developments. Not only that, hearing from officials that are very knowledgeable on issues in their areas, particularly when these regulations have a large effect on capital and money markets, allows more transparency in government agencies.
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today voted to pass the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 6157, the second Fiscal Year 2019 minibus appropriations package. This legislation includes funding for the Departments of Defense, Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. Lucas released the following statement upon passage of the bill: “This is the first time in a decade that Congress has sent a spending bill for defense to the President’s desk on time. This is critical funding for defense and domestic issues, including rebuilding and restoring our armed services and supporting our men and women in uniform. Those serving in our military deserve the stability of a fully funded Department of Defense.” “The Third District of Oklahoma is home to two Air Forces bases, so prioritizing defense funding is imperative. This bill authorizes a 2.6 percent raise for our troops, which is the largest pay raise in nine years. Congress is ensuring the Department of Defense has the ability to modernize in order to keep our country safe.” “The bill also directs historic funding to fight and end the opioid epidemic. With Oklahoma being one of the leading states in opioid prescriptions, supporting programs to combat this crisis is common sense legislation.” ###
09.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3), Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Conservation and Forestry, delivered an opening statement as a conferee on the congressional conference committee for the 2018 Farm Bill. “The pundits in this town said there would never be another bad day in rural America, so you don’t need a farm bill. We created a safety net, knowing that there would be another bad day. Cash commodity prices are essentially half of what they were when we last met. That adds to the importance of passing another farm bill.” CLICK HERE to view the video
09.05.2018	Washington, DC. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) released the following statement upon the Senate Republican Conference approving Senator Inhofe’s election as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC): “With two of Oklahoma’s five military installations located in the Third District, I am pleased that the Senate has selected Sen. Jim Inhofe as Armed Services Committee Chairman,” said Congressman Lucas. “As a veteran and an experienced member of the committee, he has a long-standing commitment to American service members and their families. Inhofe’s selection will enhance our armed services’ ability to defend this great nation and bring Oklahoma’s perspective to the forefront of the committee.” ###
08.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold town hall meetings in Pawhuska, Ponca City, and Woodward on August 27th and 28th. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and seeking input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, August 27th, 2018 Pawhuska Town Meeting 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm Pawhuska Community Center 520 Lynn Avenue Pawhuska, OK 74056 Tuesday, August 28th, 2018 Ponca City Town Meeting 10:00 am - 11:00 am Standing Bear Museum 601 Standing Bear Parkway Ponca City, OK 74601 Woodward Town Meeting 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm Woodward Conference Center 3401 Centennial Lane, Room2 Woodward, OK 73801
08.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold town hall meetings in Altus and Guthrie on August 20th and 21st. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and seeking input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, August 20th, 2018 Altus Town Meeting 4:00 pm - 5:00 pm Western Oklahoma State College Pioneer Heritage Center 2801 North Main Street Altus, OK 73521 Tuesday, August 21st, 2018 Guthrie Town Meeting 2:30 pm – 3:30 pm Granny Had One Event Center 312 West Oklahoma Guthrie, OK 73044
08.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold 5 town hall meetings in Weatherford, El Reno, Stillwater, Sapulpa, and Chandler on August 14th and August 15th. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and seeking input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, August 14th, 2018 Weatherford Town Meeting 1:00 pm - 2:00 pm City Hall/Blair Hall 522 W. Rainey Weatherford, OK 73096 Canadian County Town Meeting 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm Redlands Community College Room RCC103 1300 S. Country Club Road El Reno, OK 73036 Wednesday, August 15th, 2018 Stillwater Town Meeting 10:00 am - 11:00 am Central Rural Electric Cooperative 3305 S. Boomer Road Stillwater, OK 74074 Sapulpa Town Meeting 1:00 pm - 2:00 pm Collins Ballroom 2nd Floor 317 E. Lee Sapulpa, OK 74066 Chandler Town Meeting 3:30 pm - 4:30 pm Route 66 Museum 401 E. 1st Chandler, OK 74834
08.03.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold town hall meetings in Kingfisher and Enid on August 10th. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and seeking input on legislation currently before Congress. Friday, August 10th, 2018 Kingfisher Town Meeting 10:00 am - 11:00 am Chisholm Trail Museum 605 Zellers Avenue Kingfisher, OK 73750 Enid Town Meeting 1:00 pm - 2:00 pm NOC - Gantz Student Center 2200-2498 E. Maine Avenue Enid, OK 73701
07.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3), Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Conservation and Forestry, was selected today to serve as a conferee on the congressional conference committee for the 2018 Farm Bill. The committee is tasked with reconciling the differences between the House and Senate versions of the Farm Bill. “I am grateful for the opportunity to once again serve on the Farm Bill conference committee,” said Congressman Lucas. “The 2018 Farm Bill builds upon the success of the 2014 Farm Bill, and I am excited to play a role in producing a bill that protects the farm safety net and ensures our fellow citizens have access to safe and affordable food and fiber. I am also focused on maintaining critical conservation programs that will help preserve our natural resources and promote thoughtful landowner stewardship. As the 2014 Farm Bill deadline approaches, we are taking an important step toward delivering a comprehensive final product to the president’s desk.”
07.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) released the following statement today after President Donald Trump visited with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the U.S.-Russia summit in Helsinki: “Maintaining an open dialogue with world leaders is central to the president’s job in protecting American interests. However, in this case, it is critical to not lose sight of Russia’s abysmal history of human rights abuse, military aggression, and violent intimidation of its ideological adversaries.” “Let’s be clear. Under former KGB agent Putin, Russian entities have meddled in western democracies in order to destabilize and manipulate political outcomes. In light of this, President Trump should be forthright and unwavering in denouncing Russia’s efforts to influence the American election process.”
06.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Frank Lucas (OK-03) and Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. Air Force and Boeing announced their respective agreement for the first KC-46 Tanker delivery in October 2018. Altus Air Force Base, in Lucas’ district, will be one of the first military installations to receive a delivery. “The announcement of the first KC-46 Tanker deliveries is great news for Altus Air Force Base and the surrounding community,” said Congressman Lucas. "I am proud of the hardworking men and women at this base whose efforts have made Altus the best option for the KC-46A Formal Training Unit, and it is always encouraging to see projects like this generate economic growth in Oklahoma’s Third District. For 75 years, Altus AFB has played a critical role in our country’s national defense, and today we are excited to see that mission expand even further.” “As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I am thrilled that the KC-46 Tanker delivery schedule has been announced,” said Congressman Cole. "The Air Force and other services will greatly benefit from this highly capable aircraft, which is a militarized version of the Boeing 767. The ability to conduct in-flight refueling, as well as provide a cargo deck with three times as much cargo and twice as many passengers as the existing KC-135, is a tremendous improvement for our warfighters.” In October, four KC-46 Tankers will be delivered to McConnell Air Force Base in Wichita, Kansas, and then four will be delivered to Altus Air Force Base in Altus, Oklahoma. In 2016, Tinker Air Force Base broke ground on its KC-46 Sustainment Campus which will be the location for repairs, maintenance and overhauls throughout the lifecycle of the tankers.
06.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (S. 2155), legislation to provide relief for small banks and credit unions across the country: “For several years, small financial institutions throughout Oklahoma have asked for regulatory relief from Dodd-Frank,” said Congressman Lucas. “Today, I’m proud to support legislation that will roll back some of those burdens that are driving up costs for consumers and limiting access to capital. Passage of this bill is a major victory and first step toward bringing financial markets back to full efficiency and capacity.” “While I am happy to deliver positive news to small banks, credit unions, and my constituents who rely upon on these institutions, I believe there is much more work to be done to unwind Dodd-Frank, expand capital investment, and restore economic opportunity in our country.” S. 2155 modifies provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and other laws governing regulation of the financial industry. The bill changes the regulatory framework for small financial institutions with assets under $10 billion (community banks) and for large banks with assets over $50 billion. The bill also makes changes to consumer mortgage and credit-reporting regulations and to the authorities of the agencies that regulate the financial industry.
04.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Lucas announced the winners of the Third District Congressional Art Competition: First Place & Facebook Fan Favorite: ‘Love for the Game’ Photography by Myrna Curry Mooreland, Okla. Second Place: Friends Stick Together Pastel drawing by Kade Hathaway Elk City, Okla. “I’m proud to announce that Myrna Curry of Mooreland, Okla. is the winner of this year’s art competition,” said Congressman Lucas. “Her inspired photography will serve as a remarkable reflection of our community as it is displayed in the U.S. Capitol over the next year for thousands of visitors to enjoy. Oklahoma’s Third District is home to several gifted young artists and I want to thank all of the students who participated in this year’s competition.” Kade Hathaway of Elk City won second place for his pastel drawing entitled, ‘Friends Stick Together’. His artwork will be displayed in Lucas’s District office in Yukon, Okla. Myrna’s first place piece was also chosen as the “fan favorite” by users on Congressman Lucas’s official Facebook page.
04.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today visited the White House to join a round table discussion with President Trump, governors from several agricultural states, and members of the U.S. House and Senate to discuss recent trade tariffs and challenges facing American agriculture. After the meeting, Lucas released the following statement: “I enjoyed the opportunity to sit down with President Trump to discuss the importance of the next Farm Bill, as well as the impact of trade tariffs here at home, especially throughout rural America,” said Congressman Lucas. “Farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, and energy producers rely on our foreign trade partners in order to sell their goods into the world market. I was impressed with the president’s sincerity to expand trade opportunities for American products, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and the Administration to promote fair trade deals that will strengthen our producers’ ability to compete globally.”
04.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3), Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Conservation and Forestry, released the following statement upon introduction of the Agricultural and Nutrition Act of 2018 (H.R. 2). “I am pleased to see the next Farm Bill introduced and filed today,” said Congressman Lucas. “A comprehensive Farm Bill is critical in supporting the efforts of our country’s hardworking farmers and ranchers to provide the most cost effective, plentiful, and safest food supply in the world. This legislation builds off the strengths of the 2014 Farm Bill and represents the best safety net for agricultural producers in challenging economic times.” “As Chairman of the Conservation and Forestry Subcommittee, I am also encouraged to see that Conservation Reserve Program acreage numbers have been increased by five million and voluntary conservation programs such as the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) will receive robust funding.” Markup of the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 will take place on Wednesday, April 18th.
02.01.2018	
01.29.2018	Rep. Frank Lucas (OK-3) emphasizes the impact the farm bill has on the lives of all Americans. From providing healthy nutrition for families to protecting the environment, the farm bill plays an active role in everyday lives.
12.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today voted to pass the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, legislation that amends the Internal Revenue Code to lower taxes rates and adjust various tax credits and deductions for businesses and individuals. The legislation will now be sent to President Trump for final approval. Upon passage of the bill, Congressman Lucas issued the following statement: “Today Congress has approved a sweeping reform to our nation’s tax code – something that has only happened twice since WWII. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will allow American families to keep more of their hard-earned dollars to put toward priorities such as saving for their children’s education, purchasing a new home, or investing for the future.” “By lowering rates and making it easier for companies to bring home foreign earnings, this bill will level the playing field for American workers and businesses who are competing with folks from around the world. The legislation will also encourage capital reinvestment and new job hiring across several industries. Energy firms drilling for oil in Western Oklahoma or an ag producer purchasing a better tractor to more efficiently raise wheat are just a couple examples of how reforming our nation’s tax code can generate renewed economic growth her at home.” “Overhauling our tax code to broaden out the base, simplify the rules, and lower rates is an enormous undertaking, and I am proud to join my colleagues today to deliver much-needed relief to American taxpayers.” Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Highlights · Lowers individual taxes and sets rates at 0%, 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37% · Roughly doubles standard deduction to $12,000 and $24,000 for individual and joint filers · Doubles the Child Tax Credit to $2,000 · Lowers corporate rate to 21% from 35% Preserves the mortgage interest deduction for current homeowners with existing mortgages and will be available up to $750,000 for new mortgages
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today voted to pass H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, legislation that amends the Internal Revenue Code to lower taxes rates and adjust various tax credits and deductions for businesses and individuals. Upon passage of the bill, Congressman Lucas issued the following statement: “Since World War II, the reform of our country’s tax code has only occurred twice – 1954 and 1986. Today, it is clear that we must take action to make American businesses and workers more competitive with the rest of the world, as well as to decrease the overwhelming tax burden on American families. This tax reform legislation doubles the standard deduction for individuals and joint filers to simplify filing and allow Americans to keep more of their hard-earned dollars. The bill also sets into motion the full repeal of the Estate Tax which will help protect family farms and other capital intensive businesses from onerous tax bills triggered by the death of a family member. “I am optimistic that simplifying the tax code, broadening the tax base, and cutting rates will energize business growth and job creation here at home. Commonsense tax reform is long overdue and I am proud to join my colleagues to pass this bold plan that will launch our country into a new chapter of prosperity.” H.R. 1 includes the following reforms to the tax code: · Decreases number of tax brackets from seven to four · Doubles the standard deduction to $12,000 for single filers and $24,000 for joint filers · Expands Child Tax Credit to $1,600 · Doubles Death Tax exemption and repeals it entirely after seven years · Small businesses will be taxed no higher than 25 percent · Extends cash accounting for businesses like family farm corporations · Allows full cost of new equipment to be written-off immediately According to the Tax Foundation, middle-income households in Oklahoma will see, on average, $2,241 more in after-tax income, and Oklahoma will add an estimated 11,138 new fulltime jobs as a result of the House-passed tax plan.
10.11.2017	Yukon, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold five town hall meetings next week in Woodward, Buffalo, Beaver, Guymon, and Boise City on Monday, October 16 and Tuesday, October 17. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and seeking input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, October 16, 2017 Woodward Town Hall Meeting 12:30 p.m. – 1:30 p.m. Woodward Conference Center, Meeting Room 2 3401 Centennial Lane Woodward, OK 73801 Buffalo Town Hall Meeting 2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. NW Electric Cooperative, Medallion Room 102 W. Turner Street Buffalo, OK 73834 Beaver Town Hall Meeting 4:30 p.m. – 5:30 p.m. First Security Bank, Cimarron Room 15 South Douglas Beaver, OK 73932 Tuesday, October 17, 2017 Guymon Town Hall Meeting 8:30 a.m. – 9:30 a.m. Panhandle Telephone Cooperative, Inc. (PTCI), Meeting Room 607 S. Main Guymon, OK 73942 Boise City Town Hall Meeting 10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Panhandle Telephone Cooperative, Inc. (PTCI), Meeting Room 115 West Main Street Boise City, OK 73933
10.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Lucas (R-OK) and Congressman Denny Heck (D-WA) joined US Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Senator Mazie Hirono (D-HI) to introduce the State Regulatory Representation Clarification Act (H.R.3915/ S.1910). The legislation clarifies the requirement for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Board of Directors to include at least one individual who has served as a state bank supervisor. “The folks in charge of overseeing our local credit markets and banks should be responsive to the specific needs and challenges of our local communities,” Representative Lucas said. “I’m proud to support this bill because it enhances state regulatory input by ensuring the FDIC Board reflects the perspective and experience of state bank supervisors.” “In my first four years on the Financial Services Committee, nobody taught me more about the work of the committee than our Director of Washington’s Department of Financial Institutions, Scott Jarvis,” Representative Heck said. “I am not the only one who has seen the value of people like Scott, which is why this requirement was first implemented 20 years ago, and I am proud to support this clarifying bill today.” “State bank supervisors understand local credit markets and comprehend the vital role banks play in individual communities,” Senator Hatch said. “With the recent growth in the number of state chartered banks, it is critical a state bank supervisor is on the FDIC Board to contribute their unique expertise and viewpoints. Our legislation gives state bank supervisors a seat at the table to ensure that the voices of local communities are heard.” “As the FDIC administers federal policies, it’s important to have voices at the table who understand local communities and the banks that serve them are very different than big banks on Wall Street,” Senator Hirono said. “State bank supervisors have this important perspective, and the bipartisan bill that Senator Hatch and I are introducing today will ensure that the FDIC board has this necessary perspective in place when making and implementing policies that impact community banks.” Statements of Support “State regulators charter and supervise 78 percent of all U.S. banks, and we bring a local perspective on how credit and banking services affect individual communities. In 1996, Congress recognized this unique perspective by mandating that the FDIC Board of Directors include such representation,” John Ryan, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Conference of State Bank Supervisors, said, “In recent years, this requirement has been improperly interpreted. The bipartisan, bicameral State Regulatory Representation Clarification Act, which we strongly support, reinforces Congress’ original intent: the FDIC Board must include a state bank regulator. Period.” Background The State Regulatory Representation Clarification Act would clarify the need for at least one member of the FDIC Board of Directors to have “served as a state bank supervisor.” While the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 required that the FDIC Board include at least one director with “state bank supervisory experience,” the definition remains excessively vague and broadly applied. This legislation would apply to future FDIC Directors and would not affect the terms of the current board.
08.21.2017	Yukon, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold five town hall meetings next week in Pawnee, Pawhuska, Ponca City, Medford, and Enid on Tuesday, August 29 and Wednesday, August 30. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and seeking input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, August 29, 2017 Pawnee County Town Hall Meeting 1:30PM – 2:30PM Pawnee City Hall 510 Illinois St. Pawnee, OK 74058 Osage County Town Hall Meeting 3:30PM – 4:30PM Pawhuska Community Center 520 Lynn Ave. Pawhuska, OK 74056 Wednesday, August 30, 2017 Kay County Town Hall Meeting 9:00AM – 10:00AM Standing Bear Museum 601 Standing Bear Pkwy. Ponca City, OK 74601 Grant County Town Hall Meeting 11:00AM – 12:00PM Medford City Hall 615 North Front St. Medford, OK 73759 Garfield County Town Hall Meeting 2:00PM – 3:00PM Gantz Student Center, GU 100 (North Side of the Ballroom) 100 South University Ave. Enid, OK 73701
08.15.2017	Yukon, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold three town hall meetings next week in Alva, Cherokee, and Fairview on Tuesday, August 22. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, August 22, 2017 Woods County Town Hall Meeting 10:00AM – 11:00AM NWOSU Student Center, Ranger Room 709 Oklahoma Ave., Alva, OK 73717 Alfalfa County Town Hall Meeting 1:00PM – 2:00PM Alfalfa County Farm Bureau 113 South Grand, Cherokee, OK 73728 Major County Town Hall Meeting 3:00PM – 4:00PM Fairview Community Center 206 E. Broadway, Fairview, Oklahoma 73737
07.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today participated in a House Agriculture Committee hearing to explore the state of infrastructure in rural America. Among the panel of witnesses was Oklahoma State University Dean of the Division of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, Dr. Thomas Coon. Lucas focused on the significance of our country’s investment in land grant institutions, and he noted that following the Morrill Act of 1862 and subsequent land grants these institutions provided the “opportunity for the first time in the history of the world, for anyone with enough effort, energy, and some smarts to be able to secure a college education.” Lucas asked Dr. Coon about how funding for land grant universities is utilized toward maintaining existing facilities and supporting the researchers and students at these institutions. Dr. Coon explained that good stewardship and diligence are critical to supporting the mission of these programs and attracting the highest quality faculty to promote innovation in agriculture.
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today voted to pass the FY 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), legislation which funds our nation’s military and sets our defense priorities for the year to come. Lucas released the following statement upon passage of the bill: “After the previous presidential administration left our military underfunded and stagnant, it is more important now than ever that we strengthen our investment in defense to support the men and women who protect our country and its interests. This year’s defense spending bill builds on President Trump’s commitment to rebuild our military by increasing troop pay by 2.4 percent and boosting the number of active duty personnel in the Army, Navy, and Air Force by over 18,000 troops. “In addition to increasing funding for our nation’s missile defense program, this bill also features a number of projects to support new technologies such as the KC-46A tanker. Altus Air Force Base will be tasked with training for these next generation aircraft, which are critical to extending the mobility and reach of our military across the globe. “The progress we have made to rebuild and modernize our country’s defense will help keep America safe and project a message of strength abroad.” H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, provides for $695.9 billion in defense funding.
07.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) joined two of his colleagues in sending a letter to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development requesting a one year delay for the implementation of electronic logging devices (ELDs) for livestock haulers. Lucas, along with Congressman Roger Marshall, M.D. (R-Kan.) and Congressman Jason Smith (R-Mo.), highlighted the unique nature of transporting livestock, writing, “in this industry, it is imperative the animals arrive to their destination as quickly as possible, with limited offloading.” “This mandate disproportionately impacts livestock haulers and could lead to fewer transportation options, steeper trucking costs, and stress or damage to cattle,” said Congressman Lucas. “In order to ensure ranchers can reliably and affordably access markets, we must provide flexibility to livestock haulers as we explore the implications of this rule and develop long-term solutions.” Excerpt from the letter: Livestock haulers across the country have the difficult task of ensuring motorist safety while also tending to the health and welfare of the animals transported. Unfortunately, the pending December 18, 2017 ELD enforcement date and existing hours of service rules do not adequately accommodate this subset of the industry. A one year delay would allow time for industry members and authorities concerns to be addressed, as well as receive sufficient training to ensure uniform compliance and enforcement. Full Letter Here (PDF)
07.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) recently visited with the winner of the Third District Congressional Art Competition. Wyatt Radford, a student at Alva High School, was named this year’s winner for his photograph entitled “Cold Morning, Hot Cup”. He traveled to Washington last week with his family to accept the award. “It was a pleasure to visit with Wyatt and his family to discuss his work and the inspiration for his contest submission,” said Congressman Lucas. “Each year, I’m impressed with the level of talent and creativity of students who participate in the Congressional Art Competition, and this year was no exception. Wyatt’s piece entitled ‘Cold Morning, Hot Cup’ is a tremendous reflection of our community and I’m proud to have his work represent Oklahoma’s Third District as it hangs in the U.S. Capitol for the next year. I look forward to seeing more of Wyatt’s photography and wish him the best of luck in his future endeavors.” Wyatt’s photography will be featured in the United States Capitol for the next year alongside winners from other congressional districts. Lucas with Third District Art Competition Winner, Wyatt Radford “Cold Morning, Hot Cup”[Full Size] For more information or to learn how to participate in next year’s Congressional Art Competition, please visit Congressman Lucas’s web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition.
06.27.2017	Washington – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) released the following statement on the Trump administration’s action to withdraw the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “I applaud the Trump administration for moving to repeal the Waters of the U.S. rule,” said Congressman Lucas. “This Obama-era regulation sought to expand federal control over landowners and has generated widespread uncertainty among ag producers and other businesses throughout rural America. I’m glad we now have an EPA that is focused on protecting our country’s natural resources through cooperation with state and local entities rather than coercion through the federal government.”
06.20.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) granted a 90-day extension of emergency grazing on CRP (Conservation Reserve Program) lands for areas of Oklahoma, Kansas, and Texas affected by recent wildfires. This comes in response to a letter sent by Congressmen Lucas, Marshall, and Thornberry to the USDA asking the agency to extend CRP acre eligibility for farmers and ranchers negatively impacted by the March wildfires. Letter from USDA to Congressman Lucas (PDF) “I’ve lived all my life in Northwest Oklahoma, but I have never seen anything of the magnitude of these fires,” Congressman Frank Lucas said. “USDA’s extension of emergency grazing on CRP acres will no doubt help ease the burden for farmers and ranchers in our part of the country by providing them with additional flexibility while forage is reestablished and fencing is rebuilt. I thank Secretary Perdue for working with us on this critical matter to help support producers impacted by these devastating wildfires.” "I want to thank Secretary Perdue and the USDA for responding to the needs of cattle producers across the wildfire-damaged area," Congressman Roger Marshall, M.D., said. "This extension should give grass additional time to recover and producers additional time to rebuild fences and other facilities destroyed by the fire. I appreciate the Secretary and USDA utilizing the flexibility they have to help restore these hard-working Kansans." “The decision by the USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue to extend emergency grazing on CRP lands will allow ranchers who were affected by the Panhandle wildfires much needed time to rebuild fencing, replant grass, and provide a safe home for their livestock," Congressman Mac Thornberry said. "I appreciate the Secretary listening to our concerns and providing agriculture producers in the Panhandle with more time to get back on their feet.” ### PRESS CONTACTS: Rep. Lucas – Andrew Witmer, andrew.witmer@mail.house.gov Rep. Marshall – Eric Pahls, eric.pahls@mail.house.gov Rep. Thornberry – Jordan Hunter, jordan.hunter@mail.house.gov
06.08.2017	Washington - Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) released the following statement today after voting for passage of the Financial CHOICE act, a bill to promote economic growth and stability by providing regulatory relief for smaller banks and credit unions while imposing stricter requirements and penalties on the largest financial institutions: “In the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, 401k’s tumbled, home foreclosures skyrocketed, and many employers were forced to cut back. Soon after, Democrats moved to vastly increase federal control over the financial industry. At over 2,300 pages, the Dodd-Frank Act represents one of the most widespread restructurings of our nation’s finance and banking sector in history, consolidating an incredible amount of power into the hands of unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats. “While the largest banks on the east and west coasts were equipped to handle the deluge of paperwork, a number of smaller, community banks simply couldn’t keep up, spending thousands of dollars to send staff to compliance classes just to follow the pages upon pages of new rules and regulations. “It’s no surprise that toward the very end of President Obama’s final year in office that our country remained in one of the weakest economy recoveries in American history. The Dodd-Frank Act tied the hands of banks, reducing the availability and increasing the cost of credit. Small businesses, entrepreneurs, and families looking to purchase a home or vehicle were left with fewer options. “This week, I’m proud to join my colleagues in taking action to begin unwinding Dodd-Frank’s rules and regulations that have held back economic growth for too long. The Financial CHOICE Act provides smaller banks with regulatory relief so that they can return to serving their communities. This legislation also promotes financial stability by ending bailouts for large financial institutions and introducing harsh penalties for fraudulent activity. “Passage of the Financial CHOICE Act marks a significant shift away from Obama-era, top-down overregulation and recognizes the importance of small businesses to the success of our economy. It’s time to restore economic opportunity and job creation on Main Street and restore accountability on Wall Street.” The Financial CHOICE Act proposes a series of financial services reforms including: Ending “too big to fail” bank bailouts by repealing aspects of Dodd-Frank Lifting regulatory burden off smaller financial institutions such as community banks Restructuring and increasing oversight of the CFPB (Consumer Financial Protection Bureau) by moving the agency to the Executive Branch and making it subject to Congressional oversight Implementing harsher penalties on Wall Street for corruption and fraud Repealing the Volcker Rule, which limits capital formation and hinders investment
05.30.2017	Yukon, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold two town hall meetings this week in Perry and Stillwater on Thursday, June 1. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Thursday, June 1st Noble County Town Hall Meeting 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Heritage Center 6th & Cedar Street Perry, Oklahoma 73077 Payne County Town Hall Meeting 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. Central Rural Electric Cooperative 3305 S. Boomer Stillwater, Oklahoma 74074
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, at a House Committee on Agriculture hearing, Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) asked U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Sonny Perdue about the possibility of the agency extending CRP (Conservation Reserve Program) acre eligibility for farmers and ranchers impacted by wildfires throughout Oklahoma, Texas, and Kansas in March. “I’ve lived all my life in Northwest Oklahoma, but I have never seen anything of the magnitude of these fires,” said Congressman Lucas. “The potential for the extension of USDA’s initial 90-day emergency authorization will have a tremendous impact on the farmers and ranchers in our region who are working to rebuild. I appreciate Secretary Perdue’s and the Trump administration’s responsiveness on this critical matter, as well as the secretary’s willingness to consider our request.” Last week, Lucas, along with Rep. Roger Marshall (R-Kan.) and Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Texas), sent a letter to Secretary Perdue requesting an extension beyond the current 90-day emergency grazing authorization. Excerpt from the letter: “On behalf of these producers, we request an extension of the emergency grazing authorization. It takes a significant amount of time to regrow the forage and rebuild the facilities that are needed to properly maintain, contain, and care for the surviving livestock. Farmers and ranchers will soon have to make other arrangements for their livestock to comply with the July 3rd removal deadline. We ask you to use your authority to avoid placing additional uncertainty on these farmers and ranchers by extending the original 90-day emergency grazing authorization. We look forward to working with you to continue to assist affected producers during this difficult rebuilding process.” Full Letter Here (PDF)
05.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) released the following statement upon news that the Trump administration reached a trade agreement with China. “I applaud the Trump administration for proactively securing a trade deal with China,” said Congressman Lucas. “This agreement immediately ends China’s 14 year ban on beef imports, a move that will drive demand for U.S. beef and strengthen cattle producers here at home. For states like Oklahoma, which produces more than it can consume in ag and energy products, it’s critically important we identify new opportunities to trade our products into the world market. A trade deal with China means improved access to an enormous foreign market, as well as the opportunity to reduce our country’s trade deficit. I look forward to working with the administration to support strong trade deals that will move our economy forward.”
05.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) released the following statement today after voting for passage of the American Health Care Act, a bill to set into motion the repeal of Obamacare and restore choice and affordability in our country’s health care market. “Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight,” said Congressman Lucas. “Several states, including Oklahoma, are down to only one insurance provider on their state exchange and health premiums continue to rise at a staggering rate.” “I support the American Health Care Act because it makes good on our promise to repeal Obamacare and restore our country’s health insurance market. Moving from Obamacare’s government-run bureaucracy to a patient-centered system means people will have the flexibility to choose the plan that meets their needs. And for the millions of Americans who were forced off their health plans through no fault of their own, this legislation paves the way for comprehensive and affordable health insurance options.” “Today’s vote is an important step toward getting rid of Obamacare’s mandates, excessive taxes, and regulatory hurdles so that Americans can begin to access quality health care at a reasonable price.”
04.12.2017	Yukon, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) will hold five town hall meetings next week in Elk City, Cordell, Weatherford, Watonga, and Kingfisher on Wednesday, April 19, and Thursday, April 20. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Wednesday, April 19 Beckham County Town Hall Meeting 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. City Hall 320 W. 3rd Street Elk City, OK 73644 Washita County Town Hall Meeting 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Cordell Police Department 105 W. Main Street Cordell, OK 73632 Custer County Town Hall Meeting 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Blair Hall in City Hall 522 W. Rainey Avenue Weatherford, OK 73096 Thursday, April 20 Blaine County Town Hall Meeting 2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. City Hall Grand Ballroom 117 N. Weigle Watonga, OK 73772 Kingfisher County Town Hall Meeting 4:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Chisholm Trail Museum 605 Zellers Avenue Kingfisher, OK 73750
04.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas will hold five town hall meetings next week in Harmon, Greer, Jackson, Kiowa, and Caddo counties on Wednesday, April 12, and Thursday, April 13. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his recent work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Wednesday, April 12 Harmon County Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Hollis Civic Center 208 W. Jones Street Hollis, OK 73550 Greer County Town Hall Meeting 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. Greer County Chamber of Commerce 119 E. Jefferson Street Mangum, OK 73554 Jackson County Town Hall Meeting 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. Altus Municipal Complex, City Council Chamber 509 S. Main Street Altus, OK 73521 Thursday, April 13 Kiowa County Town Hall Meeting 10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Stanley Building 300 S. Washington Street Hobart, OK 73651 Caddo County Town Hall Meeting 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. City Hall – Council Chamber 501 W. Virginia Anadarko, OK 73005
04.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) released the following statement today after the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced that President Trump has authorized emergency grazing on Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) lands in Oklahoma, Texas, and Kansas. “I’d like to thank President Trump and the USDA for taking decisive action to help ranchers impacted by the devastating wildfires,” said Congressman Lucas. “The president’s authorization provides ranchers with much needed flexibility to prevent further losses and speed up the recovery process. While no one can replace the cattle lost in this disaster, I appreciate the responsiveness of the federal government in working with state and local officials to minimize damages as much as possible.” Ranchers who need to graze on CRP lands previously enrolled in contracts with USDA should contact their local Farm Service Agency (FSA) office for more information.
04.04.2017	Washington D.C. – The U.S House of Representatives today unanimously approved the Senate amendment to H.R. 353, the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act, introduced by Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03), Vice Chairman of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee. This legislation directs the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to prioritize its research to improve weather data, modelling, computing, forecasting, and warnings. Vice Chairman Lucas: “When a major storm or tornado is quickly approaching your community, every additional minute of preparation time counts. This legislation strengthens our country’s commitment to severe weather forecasting and ensures NOAA has access to the best weather data. I am proud the bill also includes a dedicated Tornado Warning Improvement Program that will help develop detection and notification systems. “The Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act is a major step toward more accurate and timely weather predictions, and I am eager to see these life-saving policies signed into law soon.” Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas): “Today we took a major step to transform our nation’s weather forecasting. The Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act will enable new weather research, models, and technologies to better protect lives and property. With this bipartisan effort, we will improve forecasting by looking to the private sector for new technologies and weather solutions. This bill gives NOAA a clear vision and allows them the flexibility to buy new, affordable, and potentially better sources of data. With more and better options, we can finally make needed improvements to our weather forecasting capabilities. I look forward to the president signing this critical legislation so that we can make our weather industry great again.”
03.30.2017	Washington - The U.S House of Representatives today approved H.R. 1431, the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2017, introduced by Science, Space, and Technology Committee Vice Chair Frank Lucas (R-Okla.). The bill passed by a vote of 229-193. This legislation restores the independence of Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Science Advisory Board (SAB) and promotes fairness, transparency, and public participation to ensure unbiased scientific advice. Vice Chairman Lucas: “Sound science must be the cornerstone of sound policy. This principle holds true regardless of which party controls Congress or who sits in the Oval Office. One way we can promote smart policymaking is by ensuring the research that goes into our decisions is transparent and unbiased. I’m pleased the House took action today to improve the Science Advisory Board so that the most qualified and objective experts are free to undertake an honest review of regulatory science.” Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas): “This valuable bill opens the door to increased outside input, wider expert opinions, and more balanced recommendations in EPA’s SAB. Long-needed reforms to the SAB will increase public participation in EPA’s science review process and require the SAB to be more responsive to the public and to Congress. These changes will strengthen the public’s trust in the science that EPA uses to support its regulations. I appreciate Mr. Lucas’s leadership on this important legislation, and look forward to seeing this bill up for consideration in the Senate.”
03.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today joined colleagues from the House and Senate, as well as NASA astronauts, to witness President Trump sign the NASA Transition Authorization Act of 2017. The legislation secures funding for NASA and supports programs such as the James Webb Space Telescope, the International Space Station, and NASA’s Mars 2020 rover. “As Vice Chairman of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, I was proud to be a part of this historic bill signing today at the White House,” said Congressman Lucas. “This forward-looking legislation recognizes the importance of NASA’s mission and helps to ensure our country will continue to be the global leader in space exploration and research.”
03.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – The office of Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) will begin accepting submissions for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. All students attending high school (public, private, or homeschool) in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District are eligible to participate in the contest. “Oklahoma’s Third District is home to some truly gifted artists who deserve the opportunity to share their work with the rest of our country,” said Congressman Lucas. “I am excited to help make this possible by hosting the annual Congressional Art Competition. We have had some incredible work submitted in the past so I’m asking everyone to get the word out to any family or friends who are interested in participating!” The application, along with a list of guidelines and drop-off locations, can be found at: www.lucas.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition. Entrants must deliver their artwork to one of the designated drop-off locations by close of business on Friday, April 14, 2017. The winning piece will be displayed in the United States Capitol Building for one year where it will be seen by hundreds of thousands of Capitol visitors. Both the runner-up and “fan favorite” submissions will also recognized. The first place winner will receive two round-trip plane tickets to visit Washington, D.C. for an unveiling ceremony this summer. If you have any questions or need more information, please contact Allison Litterell at (405) 373-1958. Last year’s competition winner “Friendship Forged in Iron” by Reagan Stephens from Weatherford High School
03.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) yesterday discussed recent wildfires throughout Northwestern Oklahoma and parts of Texas and Kansas. In addition to praising the coordination of firefighters and local leaders, Lucas asked Oklahoma State Forester George Geissler about the logistics of the fire containment and prevention efforts. “I want to thank Mr. Geissler for taking the time to participate in our subcommittee hearing and shed light on the wildfire containment and prevention efforts,” said Congressman Lucas. “When you consider the magnitude of the fires, the coordination and skill of our firefighters and other folks in the field is simply amazing. These response efforts start with our local leaders who have done a tremendous job communicating and collaborating with state and federal entities to prevent further losses and help move us toward rebuilding our communities.” [Watch video of Lucas’s remarks here or on his Facebook page.] A comprehensive document outlining applicable federal assistance programs can be found online here (courtesy of USDA). Those interested in donating hay or trucking services should contact either the Harper County Extension Office at 580-735-2252 or Buffalo Feeders at 580-727-5530. The Oklahoma Cattlemen’s Association has established a relief fund to help those in Beaver, Ellis, Harper and Woodward counties. More information can be found at https://www.okcattlemen.org/.
03.09.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today released a list of resources for those affected by the recent wildfires throughout northwest Oklahoma. Individuals who have lost livestock or property are encouraged to safely assess their losses and get in touch with their local Farm Service Agency (FSA) office. “Our thoughts and prayers are with those impacted by these deadly and destructive wildfires throughout northwest Oklahoma and parts of Texas and Kansas,” said Congressman Lucas. “My team and I are continuing to monitor the situation on the ground and are working with officials at the federal and state level to determine which assistance programs are available to those in the affected areas. I encourage everyone to stay vigilant by tuning into weather reports and taking all proper precautions.” A comprehensive document outlining applicable federal assistance programs can be found online here (courtesy of USDA). Those interested in donating hay or trucking services should contact either the Harper County Extension Office at 580-735-2252 or Buffalo Feeders at 580-727-5530. The Oklahoma Cattlemen’s Association has established a relief fund to help those in Beaver, Ellis, Harper, and Woodward counties. More information can be found at https://www.okcattlemen.org/.
03.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) voted this week to pass three pieces of legislation aimed at enhancing the government’s ability to identify overly burdensome regulations and improving the way federal agencies communicate proposed rules with the public. The series of reform bills come after the House of Representatives has moved to repeal 13 Obama-era regulations since the beginning of this year. “The last eight years of the Obama administration have left our country with thousands upon thousands of pages of additional government rules and regulations,” said Congressman Lucas. “This red tape is a roadblock to renewed growth, siphoning billions of dollars from our economy and hindering new capital investments and job creation.” “That’s why it’s important for Congress to establish strict guidelines to identify and eliminate regulations that are either outdated or simply unnecessary. These three bills are critical steps toward restoring sanity in our country’s regulatory regime, and I am very encouraged by the progress we are making in Congress to build upon President Trump’s efforts to get our economy back on track.” The first of the three bills is the SCRUB (Searching for and Cutting Regulations that are Unnecessarily Burdensome) Act, which establishes a bipartisan Retrospective Regulatory Review Commission to identify older and costly rules that impede economic growth. The second bill, the OIRA Insight, Reform, and Accountability Act codifies the role of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) – an agency tasked with overseeing major proposed regulations – to ensure they can continue to hold back poorly vetted or rushed regulations that could have a significant impact on the economy. The final piece of legislation is the Regulatory Integrity Act, a bill that provides greater transparency into federal agency communication by prohibiting the agency from soliciting support or opposition for any proposal for regulatory action.
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s executive action directing regulators to review and begin unwinding the controversial Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. “The Waters of the U.S. rule has created widespread uncertainty for many of the folks in the agriculture, energy, and construction sectors across our country,” said Congressman Lucas. “This far-reaching and arbitrary regulation was less about protecting our country’s natural resources and more about expanding federal control over private landowners. I applaud the Trump administration for taking swift action on this issue. Getting rid of this red tape is a major win for rural America and allows property owners and businesses to refocus their attention on more important matters.”
02.17.2017	Yukon, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) released the following statement upon Senate confirmation of Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt to take on the role of Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): “I’m glad the Senate acted to confirm Scott Pruitt as administrator of the EPA today,” said Congressman Lucas. “His confirmation is a major step toward restoring common sense and rule of law at the agency. Scott has a strong understanding of the critical role states play in the regulatory process and the importance of sound science in policymaking. I look forward to working with him to protect our country’s precious natural resources while ensuring American families have access to affordable energy and good paying jobs.”
02.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas will hold town hall meetings in Creek, Lincoln, Logan and Canadian counties on Wednesday, February 22 through Friday, February 24. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Wednesday, February 22, 2017 Creek County Town Hall Meeting 1:30 – 2:30 p.m. Collins Building (2nd Floor Ballroom) 317 E Lee Sapulpa, OK 74066 Lincoln County Town Hall Meeting 3:30 – 4:30 p.m. Rt. 66 Interpretive Center 400 E Hwy 66 Chandler, OK 74834 Thursday, February 23, 2017 Logan County Town Hall Meeting 10:30 – 11:30 a.m. Oklahoma Territorial Museum 406 E Oklahoma Avenue Guthrie, OK 73044 Friday, February 24, 2017 Canadian County Town Hall Meeting 10:00 – 11:00 a.m. Events at 10 West Main 10 West Main Street Yukon, OK 73099
02.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) released the following statement after President Trump announced his nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court: “President Trump’s nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court will fill a nearly yearlong vacancy on the court and help move it towards a stricter interpretation of the Constitution,” said Congressman Lucas. “Judge Gorsuch has an impressive legal background and shares the late Justice Scalia’s belief in strictly adhering to the letter of the law. I am encouraged by the president’s nomination and hope the Senate will take action to ensure the Supreme Court can move forward in its work with a full bench.”
01.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) released the following statement in response to an executive order issued by the Trump administration to temporarily suspend the entry of refugees and issuance of visas for individuals from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen: “Our country has a strong record of providing asylum to those fleeing war or oppression. However, we must also acknowledge that the world is a dangerous place. Far too many innocent civilians have fallen victim to organized terror attacks at home in their own communities. “When the FBI Director indicates that there are vulnerabilities in our country’s ability to screen foreign entrants, the American people have a right to expect swift action by our government to remedy this issue. “Rather than asking in retrospect what we can do better in the aftermath of an attack, it’s the duty and responsibility of our government to take every realistic precaution to properly screen all individuals, especially those from countries that are havens or state-sponsors of terrorism. “While I support the goal of President Trump’s executive order to strengthen America’s national security, I believe the administration must further clarify their long term objectives and the manner in which they intend to implement these new travel restrictions.”
01.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) released the following statement after news of President Trump’s executive actions to strengthen American border security: “We will never have a successful immigration system in this country unless we take big steps to secure our southern border,” said Congressman Lucas. “I applaud President Trump’s swift action to strengthen our nation’s border security and I look forward to working with his administration to protect the safety of all Americans and to tackle the issue of illegal immigration.”
01.17.2017	By: Congressman Frank Lucas, Congressman Tom Cole, Congressman Jim Bridenstine, Congressman Markwayne Mullin, Congressman Steve Russell WASHINGTON— Obamacare has failed Americans all across the nation. But Oklahoma in particular is a case study for its failure and the negative impact on insured individuals. As a state that saw 2017 premiums increase an average of 76 percent and as one of only five states with just one insurer participating in the federal exchange, you could argue that Oklahoma has been hit the hardest by Obama’s failed health care policy. All five of our congressional districts have constituents who are adversely impacted by Obamacare. A small business owner in Oklahoma City believes that Obamacare is negatively impacting his business. Graciously, he has always paid for half of his employee’s health insurance premiums. In three years under Obamacare, this employer’s out of pocket expenses have more than doubled. Obamacare has given him two choices: drop the health insurance benefit and potentially lose quality employees, or go out of business. A mother of three was an accountant before quitting to raise her family and help her husband start his small business, so when Obamacare came along, she knew how to analyze their options. She made the rational decision to pay the fines, save the value of premiums and high deductibles, and effectively self-insure. Under Obamacare, she became uninsured, and she will be thousands of dollars ahead – as long as she avoids catastrophic illness. After celebrating a successful harvest, a cotton farming family in southwest Oklahoma was shocked when they learned their health insurance premiums would nearly double under Obamacare. All of their concerns about issues like EPA’s Waters of the U.S. rule or the continuation of certain Farm Bill provisions suddenly paled in comparison to Obamacare. They’re now worried that the sudden spike in expenses for their family, not to mention a $6,000 deductible, threatens the future of their farming operation. One couple in rural Oklahoma was forced to sell their small business a few years ago due to the husband’s sharp decline in health. When they signed up for Obamacare, the most affordable option was a $6,000 deductible and a $1,200 copay. Even worse, the prescriptions they need to fill are “Tier 4,” the section that has the highest copay. All doctors and hospitals under their plan are far from their home and it is almost impossible to schedule a timely appointment with a doctor when they find themselves ill. A Southern Baptist pastor in eastern Oklahoma is well taken care of by his church, except they do not provide health insurance. His family’s previous health care plan was cancelled in December, so he used Healthcare.gov, which failed to function properly, and was left with a plan that more than tripled their premium. A steadfast believer, the pastor is left with only the belief that God will provide for his pregnant wife, two year old son, and the baby on the way. Sadly, these stories represent only a sliver of the number of Oklahomans feeling the ill effects of Obamacare. More and more Oklahomans are grappling with the crippling consequences of a failed health care law that is anything but affordable. It doesn’t take long to find a neighbor, a friend, or a community member who is suffering the ill effects of Obamacare. More than 4.7 million Americans were kicked off their health care plan after being promised that they could keep it. Sixty percent of Americans have seen an increase in their deductibles in addition to the average 22 percent increase in their 2017 premiums. The burden Obamacare placed on families, employers, and individuals never seems to end. Thankfully, House Republicans want to make sure the Obamacare buck stops here. Our goal is to bring the American people more choices and lower costs, without mandating your plan or your coverage. By opening a free market to encourage competing plans and options, Americans can return once again to a health care market that provides access to affordable and reliable health insurance for Americans everywhere, particularly in our home state of Oklahoma.
01.09.2017	Today the U.S. House unanimously approved H.R. 353, the Lucas-Bridenstine Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act. This legislation prioritizes protecting lives and property. “Every minute counts in the lead up before a major storm or tornado,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “This legislation helps to give those in harm’s way additional disaster preparation time which could ultimately be the difference between life and death or thousands of dollars in property damage. I am encouraged that the House has taken action on this critical matter and hope to see these life-saving policies enacted soon.” “Our aim is to have zero deaths from tornadoes and other extreme weather events,” said Congressman Jim Bridenstine. “This bill gets us closer to that day. I thank my House colleagues for their support, and anticipate swift Senate passage and that the President will sign it into law.” This legislation is the product of a bipartisan effort. It directs the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to focus resources and effort to: · Rebalance NOAA funding to place a higher priority on weather-related research and activities; · Emphasize developing accurate forecasts and timely warnings of high impact weather events; · Create programs to extend warning lead times and improve forecasts for tornadoes and hurricanes; · Develop a plan to utilize advanced technology to regain U.S. superiority in weather modeling and forecasts; · Increase focus and continue development of seasonal forecasts and how to maximize information from these forecasts; and · Enhance coordination among various federal government weather stakeholders. The legislation also authorizes and extends a NOAA pilot program already under way thanks to a partnership between the House Science Space and Technology and the House Appropriations Committee. Under this pilot program, NOAA has already issued two contracts to procure commercial satellite weather data. This pilot program could bring about a paradigm shift in how NOAA makes decisions about future procurement of critical weather data. House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith added, "Americans from coast to coast will now be better prepared for severe weather with the passage of the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act. This bill has been four years in the making and is long overdue. It will transform our nation’s weather gathering efforts and help save lives and property. This legislation strengthens the underlying atmospheric science while simultaneously advancing innovative technology and reforming operations to provide better weather data, models, and forecasts. America can thank Reps. Lucas and Bridenstine for leading this innovation initiative. We look forward to the Senate approving this bill soon." The Washington Post called this “the first major piece of weather legislation adopted since the early 1990s.” The legislation, originally introduced in the House in 2013, passed the House in 2015, and last December the Senate approved an amended version. Provisions in the bill approved today are nearly identical to the Senate version, so we can anticipate swift passage again in the Senate and presentation to the President for signing into law. Links to videos of remarks on the House floor: Congressman Lucas- https://youtu.be/FmXeb1z7RTw Congressman Bridenstine- https://youtu.be/tvR19_RzbDw Chairman Smith- https://youtu.be/bWvm6IeBZns
01.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today voted to pass the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, legislation to increase the role of Congress in the oversight and review of executive agency rulemaking. The bill requires congressional approval for any major executive action that impacts the U.S. economy by an amount greater than $100 million or would drastically increase prices on consumer goods for Americans. “The Obama administration’s regulatory regime of the past eight years has cost the U.S. economy billions of dollars,” said Congressman Lucas. “A big part of getting our economy back on track and Americans back to work is to remove the regulatory burdens that are restraining growth and opportunity.” “As one of the first bills of the 115th Congress, the REINS Act is a serious step toward curbing overregulation and returning to common sense in the way we govern.”
09.29.2016	
08.17.2016	Yukon, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas will hold town hall meetings in Beaver, Guymon, and Boise City on Monday, August 22nd and Tuesday, August 23rd. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, August 22, 2016 Beaver Town Hall Meeting 3:00 – 4:00 p.m. Beaver County Farm Bureau 812 S. Douglas Beaver, OK 73932 Tuesday, August 23, 2016 Guymon Town Hall Meeting 8:00 – 9:00 a.m. PTCI Meeting Room 607 S. Main Guymon, OK 73942 Boise City Town Hall Meeting 10:30 – 11:30 a.m. PTCI Room 115 West Main Street Boise City, OK 73933
08.17.2016	Yukon, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce an upcoming town hall meeting in Yukon on Thursday, August 18th. Lucas will be discussing his work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District and asking for input on legislation that’s currently before Congress. All residents are invited to attend and share their views on current events in Washington. Thursday, August 18, 2016 Yukon Town Hall Meeting 5:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. Events at 10 West Main 10 West Main Street Yukon, OK 73099
08.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Pawnee, Pawhuska, Bristow and Chandler on Tuesday, August 9th and Wednesday, August 10th. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, August 9, 2016 Pawnee Town Hall Meeting Pawnee City Hall 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. 510 Illinois Street Pawnee, OK 74058 Pawhuska Town Hall Meeting Pawhuska Community Center 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. 520 Lynn Avenue Pawhuska, OK 74056 Wednesday, August 10, 2016 Bristow Town Hall Meeting Bristow Public Library (Large Conference Room) 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. 111 West 7th Street Bristow, OK 74010 Chandler Town Hall Meeting Route 66 Interpretive Center 1:15 p.m. – 2:15 p.m. 400 E 1st Street Chandler, OK 74834
07.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) released the following statement on the shooting death of multiple law enforcement officers last night in Dallas, Texas: “Our thoughts and prayers are with Dallas today,” said Congressman Lucas. “As we mourn this senseless tragedy, I stand with our law enforcement officers and their families. The men and women who protect and serve our communities put their own wellbeing on the line everyday so that we can enjoy safe and productive lives. This is a time for us to come together because misplaced hate and violence will only divide our country further.”
07.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) released the following statement after FBI Director James Comey announced that the agency will not recommend criminal charges for Secretary Hillary Clinton’s improper handling of classified information on a private email server: “Based on the FBI’s findings, I am very disappointed Director Comey did not recommend that the Justice Department hold Secretary Clinton accountable for her actions,” said Congressman Lucas. “It is hard to imagine that Secretary Clinton’s use of an unsecured, private email server was anything but a conscious effort to skirt public reporting requirements. Contrary to her public statements, the FBI found several instances of classified state secrets sent to and from her email. “Secretary Clinton is a lawyer whose experience on these matters goes all the way back to working on the Watergate Committee and she has been involved at various levels of the federal government since her husband’s election back in 1992. To suggest any ignorance or misunderstanding of the law on her part is a disservice to the American people. I look forward to hearing more from the FBI Director in the days and weeks to come. The results of the FBI’s investigation are quite clear and I believe that this is not a closed matter.”
06.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) recently visited with the winner of the Third District Congressional Art Competition. Reagan Stephens, a student at Weatherford High School, was named this year’s winner for her piece entitled, “Friendship Forged in Iron”. She traveled to Washington with her parents, Brian and Michelle of Weatherford, Okla. For the next year, Reagan’s oil painting will be featured in the United States Capitol alongside the winners from other congressional districts across the country. “It was a pleasure to visit with Reagan to discuss the background of her incredible piece,” said Congressman Lucas. “I’m proud to have her artwork serve as a representation for the Third District. I wish Reagan the best of luck and hope she will continue to pursue her artistic talents.” Lucas meets with Reagan in his Washington D.C. office [Full Size] “Friendship Forged in Iron”[Full Size] View the rest of this year’s art competition entries on Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/2016-art-competition-entires. For more information, or to learn how to participate in next year’s Congressional Art Competition, please visit: https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition.
05.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Ponca City, Perry, Stillwater and Guthrie on Tuesday, May 31st and Wednesday, June 1st. Residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, May 31, 2016 Ponca City Town Hall Meeting Standing Bear Museum 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. 601 Standing Bear Parkway Ponca City, OK 74601 Perry Town Hall Meeting Perry Municipal Building 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. 729 Cedar Street Perry, OK 73077 Wednesday, June 1, 2016 Stillwater Town Hall Meeting Stillwater Public Library (Room 309) 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. 1107 South Duck Street Stillwater, OK 74074 Guthrie Town Hall Meeting Oklahoma Territorial Museum 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. 406 E Oklahoma Avenue Guthrie, OK 73044
05.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today voted to pass the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), legislation which funds our nation’s military and sets our defense priorities for the year to come. Lucas released the following statement upon passage of the bill: “Despite veto threats from President Obama, I believe the House-passed NDAA puts forward the best vision for the future of our military and national security,” said Congressman Lucas. “Whether it’s increasing troop pay or streamlining the acquisition system, this legislation boosts military readiness and ensures our servicemen and women have the tools they need to carry out the mission we ask of them.” “Like the past five NDAA bills signed into law by President Obama, today’s legislation also contains language prohibiting the closure of Guantanamo Bay and prevents any effort to transfer terrorist combatants to American soil. “From an Oklahoma perspective, this year’s NDAA is particularly important because it maintains support for the delivery of new KC-46A tankers – the next generation of armored aircraft used to perform aerial refueling procedures. Altus Air Force Base will oversee training on this modern aircraft and Tinker Air Force Base will provide logistics and support.” H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act, is the 55th consecutive annual defense policy bill passed by Congress. The legislation increases troop pay by 2.1 percent and reverses the president’s drawdown on military troops by adding 3,000 Marines and 4,000 Airmen to our armed forces. It also builds upon recent military sexual assault reforms by making it easier for victims to report cases and implementing stricter sentences for offenders.
05.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) recently named Conner Carroll as staff assistant in his Washington office. Carroll, a native of Perkins, Oklahoma, graduated from Oklahoma State University in May with a degree in Agribusiness. He will assist constituents who call into Lucas’ office, in addition to organizing tours, managing the internship program and handling Capitol flag requests. “We are excited to bring Conner onto our team here in Washington,” said Congressman Lucas. “He has demonstrated a strong understanding of the district and I am confident he will be a tremendous asset to my staff and our constituents.” “As a lifelong resident of Perkins, Oklahoma, and a recent graduate of Oklahoma State University, I couldn’t be more excited to serve the constituents of the Third District here in Washington, D.C.” said Carroll. “I am thankful and excited for the opportunity to join Congressman Lucas’ staff.” Last summer, Carroll served as an intern for Congressman Lucas in Washington. Prior to that, he participated in a legislative internship with Oklahoma State University’s College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources. Carroll is the son of Jimmy and Becky Carroll of Perkins, Oklahoma. Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes Carroll to his DC office.(Click photo for HD version)
04.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today voted to pass H.R. 699, the Email Privacy Act, legislation to modernize and establish clear protections to the privacy rights of American’s email and electronic files. According to the three-decade-old law that currently covers electronic communications, the government and law enforcement are allowed to access emails in most inboxes that are more than six month old without needing to obtain a warrant. Lucas, a cosponsor of today’s privacy legislation, released the following statement upon its overwhelmingly bipartisan passage in the House of Representatives by a vote of 419-0. “Your private emails should be just that: private,” said Congressman Lucas. “I’m encouraged to see a vast majority of my colleagues in the House unite behind this comprehensive bill to modernize our laws on email and data privacy. Our Constitutional rights should never be left to fester under aging laws when we have the ability to fix them. I hope the Senate and President Obama will recognize the urgent need to take action on this critical issue.” H.R. 699 overhauls the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 to ensure our nation’s laws are keeping pace with the growth of technology. The Email Privacy Act closes a decades-old loophole that enables government and law enforcement to access emails and other data more than six months old that are hosted on third party servers such as Gmail, Yahoo and most internet service providers. The legislation creates a new warrant requirement for law enforcement seeking to access email or text messages; continues to hold remote computing service providers subject to warrants; and maintains Congress’s subpoena power to conduct investigations.
04.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today voted to pass two pieces of legislation aimed at bringing greater accountability to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and its employees. From 2004 to 2013, the IRS’s inspector general found that almost 1,600 IRS employees were willfully tax noncompliant. The No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act, which passed today by a vote of 254 – 170, seeks to remedy this issue by prohibiting the IRS from hiring any new employees until the Treasury Secretary verifies that no current IRS employees have significant delinquent tax debt. The IRS Oversight While Eliminating Spending Act, which today by a vote of 245 – 179, grants Congress greater control over how the IRS spends fees imposed on taxpayers. These fees amount to roughly $350 million per year, with a portion going towards the implementation of Obamacare, according to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen. “Frustration with the IRS is an issue that resonates with Americans of all political philosophies. Unfortunately, President Obama has repeatedly blocked any effort to fix our country’s staggeringly complex tax code or even reform the IRS – an agency with an astounding record of dishonesty and incompetence under this Administration,” said Congressman Lucas. “Any government agency, especially one with so much power over our nation’s workers and businesses, must be held to the highest degree of accountability. With these two bills today, the House continues its fight to protect taxpayers by drawing greater scrutiny toward IRS spending and ensuring the agency’s employees are worthy of the confidence and trust of the American people.”
04.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) today released the following statement regarding Tax Day and reforming our nation’s tax code: “The president’s annual budget has repeatedly shown that he and his party have no interest in fixing our nation’s tax code or even reforming the IRS – an agency that goes above and beyond its mission when it comes to targeting Americans for their religious beliefs but loses billions of dollars every year in fraudulent refunds and cybertheft,” said Congressman Lucas. “These failures are symptomatic of an agency that has become too large and too bureaucratic to carry out its original mission. Taxpayers are shelling out billions of dollars and countless hours to simply comply with our nation’s tax code. “For families, this is money that could go towards paying the bills and time that could be better spent with their children. For small businesses, these expenses could be the difference between hiring more employees or investing in new capital. “Tax Day reminds us that there is a real need for tax reform in this country and for years I have advocated for a simpler and fairer tax system, one that encourages economic growth and does not require the help of expensive professionals to decipher. I look forward to continuing this debate and pushing for commonsense reforms to help Oklahomans keep more of their hard earned dollars.”
04.04.2016	Oklahoma City, Okla. – Today Congressman Frank Lucas announced two town hall meetings to be held next week in Fairview and Cherokee on Tuesday, April 5th. Residents are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, April 5, 2016 Fairview Town Hall Meeting 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. Fairview Community Center 123 South 6th Ave, Fairview, OK Cherokee Town Hall Meeting 3:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Alfalfa County Farm Bureau 113 South Grand, Cherokee, OK
03.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Shattuck, Buffalo, Woodward and Taloga on Wednesday, March 30th. All residents of these locations are invited and encouraged to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his work in Congress, taking questions on policy issues and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Wednesday, March 30, 2016 Shattuck Town Hall Meeting 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Shattuck Chamber of Commerce Building 115 South Main Street, Shattuck, OK Buffalo Town Hall Meeting 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Medallion Room, NW Electric Cooperative 102 W. Turner St., Buffalo, OK Woodward Town Hall Meeting 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Woodward Conference Center, Meeting Room 2 3401 Centennial Lane, Woodward, OK Taloga Town Hall Meeting 4:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Great Plains National Bank, Community Room 100 S. Broadway, Taloga, OK
03.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today released the following statement after President Obama announced his nomination of federal appeals court judge Merrick Garland to serve on the Supreme Court of the United States: “With the passing of Justice Antonin Scalia, the Supreme Court lost a great defender of liberty and the Constitution. President Obama’s nomination today to fill Scalia’s vacancy comes at the tail end of his presidency and during a contentious election year. The nomination and confirmation of our next Supreme Court justice will dramatically impact the composition of our nation’s highest court and, in turn, the direction of our country. “This is not about who the president nominated today; it is about the principle of giving the American people a voice in this process by voting in the next general election. The significance of this decision cannot be understated and I hope the Senate will exercise its constitutional authority to ensure the will of the people is upheld.”
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meeting to be held in Alva on Thursday, March 24th. All residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events in Washington. Lucas will be discussing his work in Congress, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Thursday, March 24, 2016 Alva Town Hall Meeting 3:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. NWOSU Student Center, Ranger Room 709 Oklahoma Ave., Alva OK
02.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Mangum, Hollis, Altus, Hobart and Anadarko on March 7th and 8th. All residents of these locations are invited to attend and share their thoughts on current events. Lucas will be discussing his work in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, March 7, 2016 Mangum Town Hall Meeting 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Mangum Senior Citizens’ Center 213 N. Oklahoma Ave., Mangum, OK Hollis Town Hall Meeting 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Hollis Civic Center 208 W. Jones Street, Hollis, OK Altus Town Hall Meeting 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. Museum of the Western Prairie 1100 Memorial Drive, Altus, OK Tuesday, March 8, 2016 Hobart Town Hall Meeting 9:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. Stanley Building 300 S. Washington Street, Hobart, OK Anadarko Town Hall Meeting 12:30 p.m. – 1:30 p.m. City Hall - Council Chamber 501 W. Virginia, Anadarko, OK
02.18.2016	Cheyenne, Okla. – Today Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) announced his office will begin accepting submissions for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Students attending a high school (public, private or homeschool) in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District are eligible to participate in the contest. “Every year I enjoy seeing all of the wonderful entries that reflect our unique culture in the Third District,” said Congressman Lucas. “We are home to several incredibly talented young artists who deserve the opportunity to share their creativity with the rest of the country. As your representative, I am excited to help make this possible by hosting the annual Congressional Art Competition.” The application, along with a list of guidelines and drop-off locations, can be found at: www.lucas.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition. Entrants must deliver their artwork to one of the designated drop-off locations by close of business on Friday, April 15, 2016. The winning piece will be displayed in the United States Capitol Building for one year where it will be seen by hundreds of thousands of Capitol visitors. Both the runner-up and “fan favorite” submissions will also recognized. The first place winner will receive two round-trip plane tickets to visit Washington, D.C. for an unveiling ceremony this summer. If you have any questions or need more information, please contact Allison Litterell at (405) 373-1958. Lucas presents last year’s competition winner Hadley Smith with a certificate commemorating her piece, “Working Cowgirl”.
02.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Medford, Enid, Kingfisher and Watonga on February 17th and 18th. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District and asking for input on legislation currently before Congress. Wednesday, February 17, 2016 Medford Town Hall Meeting 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.Medford City Hall615 North Front, Medford, OK 73759 Enid Town Hall Meeting 4:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m.Gantz Student Center, GU 100 (north side of the Ballroom)100 South University Avenue, Enid, OK 73701 Thursday, February 18, 2016 Kingfisher Town Hall Meeting10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.Chisholm Trail Museum605 Zellers Avenue, Kingfisher, OK 73750 Watonga Town Hall Meeting 11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. City Hall Grand Ballroom 117 N. Weigle, Watonga, OK 73772
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today voted to pass the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act. This legislation, led by fellow Oklahoma Congressman Steve Russell (OK-5), helps to block President Obama’s controversial easing of long-held sanctions against Iranian sponsors of terror and human rights abuse. The bill, which passed by a vote of 246 –181, comes after December reports of Iran conducting missile tests less than 1,500 yards away from American naval vessels, as well as news last month that Iran captured and briefly detained ten U.S. Navy sailors. “President Obama’s decision to strike a deal with Iran is dumbfounding. The nuclear deal lacks 24/7, on-demand inspections; it lacks any sort of reliable verification; and it forces America and our allies to trust a regime with a decades long record of funding and supporting terrorism. This deal can only be characterized as a last-ditch effort to bolster his presidential legacy,” said Congressman Lucas. “While the president went entirely around Congress to ratify this agreement, I believe it’s our responsibility to ensure our sanctions against Iran are not entirely dissolved. To this end, I applaud Congressman Russell for spearheading this effort to hold the Obama Administration accountable and shine light on an international agreement many Americans were opposed to from the start.” The Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act would prohibit the president from removing foreign banks from the Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) until the White House can verify these institutions have not provided services to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corp or any foreign terror organization. Iran also remains on the State Department’s list of state sponsors of terrorism. The bill stresses that Iran’s proxies – Hezbollah, Hamas and the Palestine Islamic Jihad – are classified as terrorist organizations under financial sanctions.
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – In a House Science Committee hearing this morning, Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) raised questions about the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) involvement in President Obama’s unilateral climate change agreement made last December at the Paris United Nations Climate Change Conference. Last month, Lucas joined Congressman Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.) and several other colleagues in sending a letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy to request additional information about the agency’s plans to send U.S. federal employees to other countries to monitor the progress of the non-binding Paris Protocol climate agreement. Referencing the January letter at today’s hearing, Lucas raised concerns to the witness panel that the “EPA is going beyond their legal authority by sending employees overseas.” Lucas added, “It will be fascinating to see how the EPA responds to this concept of sending U.S. employees out to enforce agreements that the Senate has not yet approved.” The president’s Paris climate promise ignores scientific data – and lack thereof – while also raising energy prices here at home. Neither the House nor the Senate has voted on passage or ratification of this agreement. In his opening statement today, House Science Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) said, “Congress has repeatedly rejected the president’s extreme climate agenda. Now the administration attempts to create the laws on its own and has packaged all these regulations and promised their implementation to the U.N.”
01.27.2016	Cheyenne, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Cheyenne, Elk City, Weatherford and Cordell on January 29th. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. [Friday, January 29th, 2016] Cheyenne Town Hall Meeting 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Washita Battlefield National Historic Site 18555 Highway 47A, Ste. A Cheyenne, OK 73628 Elk City Town Hall Meeting 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. City Hall (Commissioners Chambers) 320 W. 3rd Street Elk City, OK 73644 Weatherford Town Hall Meeting 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. City Hall (Council Chamber/Blair Hall) 522 W. Rainey Avenue Weatherford, OK 73096 Cordell Town Hall Meeting 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. Police Department, Precinct Room, 105 W. Main Street Cordell, OK 73632
01.13.2016	Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) released the following video leading up to President Obama's final State of the Union Address.
12.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) today voted to pass the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act. The legislation, which passed by a bipartisan vote of 318-109, provides both permanent and multi-year extensions for several tax credits that millions of Americans rely upon. “As the end of the year approaches, families and businesses are thinking about filing their tax returns for 2015. In order to adequately prepare, taxpayers must have a stable and predictable tax code that remains consistent from year to year. This tax extender package provides greater long term certainty to promote a stronger economy and help ensure Americans can keep more of their hard-earned dollars,” said Congressman Lucas. “The permanent extension of Section 179, which deals with expensing certain equipment, helps several agriculture and construction businesses throughout rural Oklahoma to plan for the future. Enabling these businesses to make smarter decisions energizes our economy and spurs job creation and investment here at home.” The PATH Act implements a number of oversight measures to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that the House has previously passed. These reforms include the immediate termination of any IRS employee who takes politically motivated action against a taxpayer and strictly prohibits IRS employees from using personal e-mail accounts to conduct their official business. The PATH Act also contains temporary relief from some of the taxes associated with Obamacare. There is a two year delay (2018 and 2019) to the Obamacare excise tax on higher cost health care plans, also known as the Cadillac Tax. Additionally, the bill provides a one year delay to the Health Insurance Tax (HIT), which has been attributed to rising health insurance premiums for small businesses.
11.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) released the following statement today upon news of President Obama’s decision to block construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline: “Today President Obama chose to promote the interests of environmental groups over those of Oklahomans and the rest of our country. The Keystone pipeline would create thousands of jobs by embracing America’s energy innovation and would help reduce our dependence on oil from foreign countries. The president’s latest move continues his trend of blocking pro-growth economic policies and drags our country backwards when we ought to strongly lead the way in energy production,” said Lucas. A 2014 report from the State Department found that the pipeline would result in significant economic growth, including 42,100 jobs and contribute $3.4 billion to the U.S. GDP. The report also found that the pipeline would have a much smaller impact on the climate compared to other methods of transportation like rail or tanker. Oklahoma’s portion of the Keystone XL pipeline has already been completed.
10.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) today met with a group of Oklahoma veterans traveling to Washington as part of the Oklahoma Honor Flights Program. The organization works with volunteers to help ensure World War II veterans can visit the memorials dedicated to their service. “I am truly grateful for this unique opportunity to welcome our veterans on their trip to our nation’s capital,” said Congressman Lucas. “These monuments are a symbol of the sacrifice and service of these individuals. It was an incredible moment to share with them.” The Oklahoma Honor Flights program has helped transport veterans to Washington since 2009. All travel costs are covered through private donations. Oklahoma Honor Flights has taken roughly 2,000 veterans on 21 flights since the program’s inception. ** Click here for a link to the entire photo album **
10.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) today voted to pass H.R. 702, a bill which would lift the 40 year old ban on exporting crude oil from our country. This legislation comes at a time when oil production in the United States has reached historical highs. Lucas, a cosponsor of the legislation, released the following statement upon the bill’s passage: “America is currently one of the top global energy producers in the world, and it’s time for us to recognize that. We should be looking for ways to take advantage of our domestic energy production, rather than stifling it through misguided government intervention. Lifting this outdated ban benefits several facets of our economy, from drivers paying less at the pump to the revitalization of rural communities who play a major role in American energy production,” said Lucas. “It’s disturbing that while the president is content with allowing Iran to enter the global energy market, the United States still faces a domestic ban on the export of oil produced in our own country. In fact, many of our allies would likely prefer to import oil from us rather than more volatile nations. This legislation today simply helps recognize that Russia, Venezuela and the Middle East aren’t the only relevant oil producing nations in the world, and that our country – driven by hardworking and dedicated individuals – ought to be leading the way in energy.” The crude oil export ban was enacted in 1975 as a response to the Arab oil embargo. H.R. 702, which passed by a vote of 261- 159, effectively ends this ban. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the legislation would generate $1.4 billion in profits to the federal government over the next 10 years through oil and gas leases. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) also anticipates the legislation would help lower gas prices by 1.5 to 13 cents per gallon. Oklahoma is one of the primary states driving our country’s energy boom. The American Petroleum Institute (API) found that over 2,500 businesses throughout Oklahoma play a role in the oil and gas industry, which supports roughly 364,300 jobs state-wide.
09.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) today voted to pass H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act, which would divert federal funding from Planned Parenthood, the nation’s largest abortion provider, to community health centers across the country for a period of one year. Recent video evidence outlined the removal and sale of tissue from aborted fetuses at Planned Parenthood clinics. These graphic images and testimony have led to public outrage and prompted congressional investigation and action on this issue. Congressman Lucas released the following statement upon passage of the legislation: “The practices depicted in recent undercover videos from Planned Parenthood clinics are reprehensible and should have no place in our society today. I support all efforts to further investigate what occurred behind closed doors at these clinics and in the meantime they should not receive a dime of taxpayer money. “This is not what our country stands for. I have always considered myself pro-life, but I hope that more Americans will come to understand the harsh reality of abortion amidst this controversy.” Lucas also supported passage of H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protections Act, which requires health care practitioners present when a child is born alive following an attempted abortion to exercise the same degree of care as any other child born alive. Both H.R. 3134 and H.R. 3504 passed the House today.
08.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Major, Grant, Alfalfa, Woods, Beaver, Texas, Cimarron, Noble, Kay and Osage counties on August 18th through August 28th. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, August 18 Fairview Town Hall Meeting3:00 – 4:00 p.m.Fairview Community Center123 South 6th AvenueFairview, OK 73737 Wednesday, August 19 Medford Town Hall Meeting11:00 – 12:00 p.m.Medford City Hall615 North FrontMedford, OK 73759 Cherokee Town Hall Meeting2:00 – 3:00 p.m.Alfalfa County Farm Bureau113 South GrandCherokee, OK 73728 Alva Town Hall Meeting4:00 – 5:00 p.m.NWOSU Student Center, Ranger Room709 Oklahoma AvenueAlva, OK 73717 Thursday, August 20 Beaver Town Hall Meeting2:00 – 3:00 p.m. Beaver County Farm Bureau812 S. DouglasBeaver, OK 73932 Friday, August 21 Guymon Town Hall Meeting8:00 – 9:00 a.m.PTCI Meeting Room607 S. MainGuymon, OK 73942 Boise City Town Hall Meeting10:30 – 11:30 a.m. PTCI Room115 West Main StreetBoise City, OK 73933 Thursday, August 27 Perry Town Hall Meeting4:00 – 5:00 p.m.Perry Municipal Building 729 Cedar StreetPerry, OK 73077 Friday, August 28 Blackwell Town Hall Meeting 9:30 – 10:30 a.m. Kay Electric (Kay Room)300 West Doolin AvenueBlackwell, OK 74631 Skiatook Town Hall Meeting3:00 – 4:00 p.m.First Baptist Church of Skiatook825 W Rogers Blvd.Skiatook, OK 74073
07.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), Vice Chairman of the House Science Committee, congratulated NASA on the recent success of its New Horizons space probe. Launched in 2006, the probe was designed to collect data on Pluto and its moons. “Who said there are not new things to see in the world?” said Congressman Lucas. “The spectacular images of Pluto from NASA’s New Horizons space probe are simply inspiring. The program’s success reflects years of hard work by the men and women behind this project, and I join the rest of the country in congratulating the entire team behind the mission. From where I’m sitting, it looks like a planet to me.”
07.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), Vice Chairman of the House Science Committee, today questioned Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy about the science used to justify the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) final rule. WOTUS seeks to expand the EPA’s regulatory control over waterways in our country by expanding the definition of “navigable water” under the Clean Water Act to include potentially any flowing or standing water on public or private land. “Coming from a rural area, I’m a little sensitive about the Waters of the United States rule,” Lucas said. He stressed to McCarthy that the scientific data used to justify these burdensome regulations should be made available to the public for review. Lucas also pointed out to McCarthy that comments from the Chairman of the EPA’s own Science Advisory Board and the President’s science advisor have reflected that the data used to justify regulations should be made publically available. Lucas concluded his remarks saying, “there’s a fine line between doing things for people and doing things to people… there’s a perception across the country – whether it’s in ag or construction –you’re not doing things for people. You’re inevitably doing things to people.” Earlier this year, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015. The bill prevents the EPA from implementing the WOTUS rule. It requires the agency to reconsider the thousands of public comments from concerned Americans and rewrite the rule to reflect the public’s perspective. In February, Lucas introduced the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2015, legislation to ensure the science guiding EPA’s regulatory policy is objective and available for public review. The bipartisan bill passed the House of Representatives in March.
06.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) visited with the winner of the Third District Congressional Art Competition. Hadley Smith, a student at Cheyenne High School, was named this year’s winner for her piece entitled, “Working Cowgirl”. She traveled to Washington this week with her parents, Tracy and Loren of Cheyenne, Okla. Hadley’s artwork, which made use of vivid colors in acrylic paint, will be featured in the United States Capitol for the next year alongside winners from other congressional districts. “It was a pleasure to visit with Hadley to discuss her inspiration for the piece,” said Congressman Lucas. “Her artwork is a terrific reflection of Oklahoma’s Third District and will be enjoyed by thousands of Capitol visitors from across the country. I wish Hadley the best of luck and hope to see more of her unique and talented work in the future.”
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) today released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s King v. Burwell ruling to uphold Obamacare’s federal subsidies for state-run health exchanges. “Today’s Supreme Court ruling doesn’t change the reality that Obamacare has failed to live up to most of its promises – premiums have risen and care choices are even more limited,” said Congressman Lucas. “The president may be content with Obamacare narrowly surviving legitimate legal questions and the public’s concerns. However, I continue to believe it’s time to repeal this mess and replace it with a patient-centered system that doesn’t assume one size fits all when it comes to you and your family’s health care decisions.”
06.23.2015	Watch on Youtube Every few years a farm bill must be passed to ensure the stability of American agriculture. Farmers like Danny Davis of Oklahoma rely on the provisions granted in the legislation to maintain their farms, and Americans rely on farmers like Davis for everyday needs like food and clothing. However, with Congress more divided than ever, this task is threatened. Congressman Frank Lucas, then-Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, put his all into creating a bipartisan solution to pass the Agricultural Act of 2014.
06.11.2015	Yukon, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) recently welcomed Jill Shero to serve as field representative for the northeast portion of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District, which covers 8 counties. Shero is an eastern Oklahoman native and Oklahoma State University graduate with a degree in international business. “We are pleased to have Jill on our casework and fieldwork team,” said Lucas. “Her extensive internship experience at the US Department of Treasury in D.C. and familiarity with Oklahoma make her a valuable part of our team.” “Eastern Oklahoma is the place I grew up and call home. I’m grateful for the opportunity to be part of Congressman Lucas’ staff and look forward to serving the people of Oklahoma’s third district,” said Shero. In addition to Shero’s previous involvement with international nonprofit organizations, she brings grounded experience and knowledge of Oklahoma’s energy and agricultural industries. Shero is the daughter of Earl and Cindy Shero of Wilburton, Okla. and the granddaughter of Stanley and Ella Davis of Grove, Okla. Her brother-in-law and sister, Jordan and Jessica Cash, live in Miami, Okla. Shero will provide grassroots communication and casework assistance for Congressman Lucas’ district office located in Canadian county. She can be reached at (405) 373-1958.
06.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) recently named Alison Slagell as staff assistant in his Washington office. Slagell, a native of Hydro, Oklahoma, graduated from Oklahoma State University in May with a degree in Agricultural Communications. She will assist constituents who call into Lucas’ office, in addition to organizing tours, managing the internship program and handling flag requests. “I am pleased to have Alison join our team,” said Lucas. “With her knowledge of the district and experience serving as an intern in my office, she will be a tremendous asset to my staff and the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District.” “As a native of the third district, I consider it a great honor to serve my fellow constituents. I am excited to join Congressman Lucas’ staff and extremely thankful for this wonderful opportunity,” said Slagell. Last summer, Slagell interned with the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives. Prior to that she served as an intern for Congressman Lucas during the summer of 2013. She is the daughter of Dennis and Candace Slagell and granddaughter of Ida Slagell and the late Walter Slagell. ###
05.27.2015	Pawnee, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) today released the following statement on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Waters of the United States final rule: “Today the EPA stands by its decision to expand federal control over our nation’s waterways. This means anything from the largest lakes and rivers to the smallest drainage ditches commonly found on farms and ranches are subject to government scrutiny and penalties. The public has spoken loud and clear on this issue, yet the Obama administration has shut out rural America from its decision-making process. “Oklahoma’s ag producers share the same conservation goals as the rest of our country; subjecting them to arbitrary fines and even more regulation will not make America’s water any cleaner. I continue to stand with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in strong opposition to this brazen government overreach.” EPA’s Waters of the U.S. rule seeks to define the rivers, streams, and other bodies of water that fall under the agency’s jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. The final rule redefines “navigable waterway” – which has traditionally guided federal policy – to potentially any flowing or standing water on public or private land. Earlier this month the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015. This legislation prevents the administration from implementing the Waters of the U.S. Rule. It also requires the EPA to rewrite the rule and consider public input from the thousands of Americans who submitted comments on this matter.
05.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Lincoln, Creek, Logan, Payne and Pawnee counties on May 26th and May 27th. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, May 26 Stroud Town Hall Meeting 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Stroud Route 66 Coliseum (Hospitality Room) 1086 E 7th Street Stroud, OK 74079 Bristow Town Hall Meeting 3:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Bristow Public Library (Large Conference Room) 111 West 7th Street Bristow, OK 74010 Wednesday, May 27 Guthrie Town Hall Meeting 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Guthrie Public Library 201 N Division Street Guthrie, OK 73044 Stillwater Town Hall Meeting 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Stillwater Public Library (Room 309) 1107 South Duck Street Stillwater, OK 74074 Pawnee Town Hall Meeting 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Pawnee City Hall 510 Illinois Street Pawnee, OK 74058
05.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday evening, the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 1561, the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act, legislation introduced by Congressmen Frank Lucas (OK-03) and Jim Bridenstine (OK-01) to increase lead times in the detection of severe weather, such as tornadoes or hurricanes. The bill works to ensure funding at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is prioritized toward the best computer modeling, data and operation forecasts. Improved forecasting means more time to prepare and move to shelter for those in regions prone to inclement weather. Congressman Lucas: “As Oklahomans, we’re no strangers to the pressing need for forecasting improvement. The devastating tornadoes throughout our state’s history serve as a stark reminder that we can do better to provide longer lead times to folks in harm’s way. I’m glad the house acted to pass this bipartisan initiative that will help save lives and reduce property damage. Every minute counts in disaster preparation.” Congressman Bridenstine: “Weather forecasting is not a partisan issue. I am grateful to my House colleagues for recognizing the importance of improving our understanding of weather in order to better safeguard our constituents. I look forward to working with our Senate counterparts and encourage them to take up H.R. 1561 so that we can send legislation to the President’s desk, setting in motion improvements needed to better predict weather and save lives and property.” The Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act creates a joint technology transfer fund to incorporate new forecasting and models developed through NOAA’s Weather Research Program into our operational forecasts. In its assessment of the bill, the Congressional Budget Office reported that “public entities, such as weather agencies and public universities, would benefit from cooperative agreements… authorized in this bill for research and weather-related activities.” The bill establishes a pilot program to demonstrate the value of acquiring data from commercial technologies available today. It prompts NOAA to actively consider new commercial data and private sector solutions to further enhance our country’s weather forecasting capabilities. Lastly, the bill creates a dedicated tornado warning improvement extension program. The program is tasked with reducing the loss of life and destruction of property by actively working to extend tornado warning lead times.
05.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed an amendment introduced by Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) to effectively remove the Lesser Prairie Chicken (LPC) from the Endangered Species List (ESL) for a period of five years. The proposal, which passed by a vote of 229-190, amends the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to address concerns that the LPC’s “threatened” listing by U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service could needlessly impact American defense readiness by hindering development of new facilities and training exercises. The recent listing has also generated concern among agriculture and energy producers in the five state region of the LPC. “Despite strong conservation efforts in Oklahoma and other range states, the Lesser Prairie Chicken remains on the Endangered Species List. Its listing has not only created yet another layer of costs and bureaucracy for farmers and ranchers, but it could also force American military bases to tip toe around a set of dubious regulations. “This amendment ensures our military may continue to operate on its own schedule, rather than waiting on approval from an agency bureaucrat,” said Congressman Lucas. In addition to de-listing the Lesser Prairie Chicken – whose populations actually increased in 2014 – Lucas’ amendment also de-lists the American Burying Beetle which has been on the ESL since the early 1980’s despite the fact that its observed populations today are well above goals set by the Fish and Wildlife Services in 1991. There are numerous military bases in the Lesser Prairie Chicken’s range and dozens more in the very large estimated range of the American Burying Beetle. The amendment is supported by the National Rural Electric Co-operatives Association (NRECA), Farm Bureau, the National Association of Homebuilders, and the Chamber of Commerce.
04.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Canadian, Caddo, Kiowa, Jackson, Greer, and Harmon counties on May 6th and May 7th. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Wednesday, May 6: El Reno Town Hall Meeting9:00 – 10:00 a.m.Hook N Slice Grill801 Babcock Drive, El Reno, OK Hinton Town Hall Meeting10:30 – 11:30 a.m.Fire Station Community Room115 S. Broadway Street, Hinton, OK Hobart Town Hall Meeting2:00 – 3:00 p.m.Stanley Building300 S. Washington Street, Hobart, OK Altus Town Hall Meeting4:00 – 5:00 p.m.Days Inn2804 N. Main Street, Altus, OK Thursday, May 7: Mangum Town Hall Meeting1:00 – 2:00 p.m.Mangum Senior Citizens’ Center213 N. Oklahoma Ave., Mangum, OK Hollis Town Hall Meeting3:00 – 4:00 p.m.Hollis Civic Center208 W. Jones Street, Hollis, OK
04.17.2015	Watch Video Here WASHINGTON – Members of the Oklahoma congressional delegation joined in remembrance of the tragic bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building on April 19, 1995. The act of domestic terrorism that took place 20 years ago claimed 168 innocent lives in Oklahoma City and left families, loved ones and communities forever changed. “I will never forget the hallowed expressions of the men and women who had worked themselves to exhaustion helping their fellow citizens in the explosion’s aftermath. And I will never forget the outpour of support from across the country. Everywhere we turned, a hand was reaching out to pull us back to our feet,” said Rep. Frank Lucas. “Before that fateful day, many folks may have overlooked Oklahoma. If you didn’t go down I-35 or down old Route 66, you might have missed us. But on that day, 20 years ago, we were thrust onto the world stage and demonstrated that in the worst of circumstances we could reemerge stronger and more united than ever. Oklahoma and the rest of our nation changed on that day. However, in the wake of tragedy, our resolve and sense of community has only grown. Today we honor the memories of the 168 souls who were taken from us and those whose lives were changed forever.” “Even though time has passed, the nightmare that took place 20 years ago vividly remains for many and our sorrow still lingers for those lost in Oklahoma City on April 19, 1995,” said Rep. Tom Cole. “When I think back on that fateful day, I remember the heartbreak, pain and shock felt by all—but most especially by the families, friends and loved ones of those whose lives were prematurely and unfairly taken. In the midst of a terrible tragedy, I remember the bravery and strength displayed by first responders. I will also never forget the outpouring of love and support within our own communities and from countless others across the nation and around the world. And I shall always be grateful for the splendid leadership by Governor Frank Keating, First Lady Cathy Keating, Oklahoma City Mayor Ron Norick and Rep. Frank Lucas in that time of tragedy and triumph for the state of Oklahoma. ” “With the anniversary of this terrible tragedy, we will grieve the loss of many innocent adults and children, stand with the survivors and also give thanks for the first responders and the volunteers from Oklahoma and across the country that helped in the aftermath,” said Rep. Markwayne Mullin. “It is because of the strength of our communities and the help from Americans across this great nation that our state rebounded stronger than before. And our country came to know the Oklahoma Standard—the way in which Oklahomans come together in times of tragedy and hardship. So from the ashes of this evil act, our state built a message of hope and love. It is through these principles that we can overcome any challenge.” "Twenty years ago the Oklahoma City bombing seared the concept of terrorism on American soil into our national consciousness and proved that we are all vulnerable, even in the heartland,” said Rep. Jim Bridenstine. “I was in college at Rice University in 1995. All of us remember exactly where we were that day, and we will never forget the 168 people who were killed. Terrorism is evil, yet the incredible response to tragedies like we experienced in Oklahoma 20 years ago serve to highlight the strength, resolve, and resiliency of the American people to the world." “April 19th, 1995 will forever be one of those days that Oklahomans live with every day of their life,” said Rep. Steve Russell. “Not only did it affect our citizens, it also opened our nation’s eyes to the frightening thought of domestic terrorism. It is because of events like these that we must never let our guard down and must remain vigilant in protecting our entire homeland. As we reflect on the 20th anniversary, let us pray for the families that lost loved ones, and for the many survivors, that they may be granted a special comfort and peace.” “Today we remember the 168 Oklahomans, including young children, who were killed in an evil act of domestic terrorism in Oklahoma City,” said Sen. Jim Inhofe. “We remember the rescue workers, the firefighters and everyone who rushed to the scene to provide aid and extend comfort. What arose from the rubble that day was the Oklahoma Standard – strangers helping strangers, giving sacrificially for the betterment of our great state. Since then, the rest of the nation has seen this rich characteristic on display time and again as Oklahomans pull up their boots in trying times and walk forward with hope that comes from banding together. May we stand in solidarity today to remember the victims, to give thanks to first responders, and to continue to pray for Oklahoma and the families and friends who lost loved ones on April 19, 1995.” “On this solemn anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing, my family and staff remember the lives that were lost 20 years ago,” said Sen. James Lankford. “We remember the first responders who acted selflessly in a time of need. We remember the families who lost loved ones, and we remember the survivors who continue to re-count and re-live that fateful day. We lift up the families impacted by this tragic event and all Oklahomans who did not let fear overcome their love for our fellow man. When faced with anguish, Oklahomans thrived. We did not allow our hope to fade. Our state experienced firsthand Psalm 34:18 which says, ‘the Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit’. This year we are all finding practical ways to serve each other, even those we disagree with, so we never again allow anger to blind our eyes to one another. May God bless our state, and may we never lose our resilient Oklahoma spirit.”
03.24.2015	Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce five upcoming town hall meetings in Dewey, Woodward, Washita, Ellis and Harper counties on March 30th through April 1st. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, March 30: Taloga Town Hall Meeting10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m.Great Plains National Bank, Community Room100 S. Broadway, Taloga, OK Woodward Town Hall Meeting1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m.Woodward Conference Center, Meeting Room 23401 Centennial Lane, Woodward, OK Tuesday, March 31: Cordell Town Hall Meeting1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Cordell Police Department, Precinct Room105 W. Main St., Cordell, OK Wednesday, April 1: Shattuck Town Hall Meeting10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.Shattuck Chamber of Commerce Building115 South Main Street, Shattuck, OK Laverne Town Hall Meeting1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.Laverne Community Center201 South Broadway, Laverne, OK
03.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives today passed the bipartisan EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act (H.R. 1029), introduced by Science, Space, and Technology Committee Vice-Chairman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) and Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.). The bill brings fairness, transparency, and independence to the EPA’s expert panel. “The EPA’s Science Advisory Board was intended to provide a meaningful, balanced, and independent assessment of the science that informs federal regulatory decisions,” said Congressman Lucas. “However, the EPA systematically silences voices of dissent on the Science Advisory Board, ignores calls for independence and balanced participation, and prevents the Board from responding to Congressional requests. This is a good-government bill; it reflects the values we should uphold regardless of which side of the political aisle we are on. The bill recognizes the important role science should play in our policy debates and provides safeguards to give the public confidence in science. It restores the independent Science Advisory Board as a defender of scientific integrity.” The SAB was created in 1978 to provide independent expert advice to the EPA and Congress on scientific and technical information that may be used to justify federal regulations. Over the past decades, shortcomings with the current process have arisen, including limited public participation, EPA interference with expert advice, and potential conflicts of interest. The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act: · Strengthens public participation and opportunities for the public to comment · Reinforces peer review requirements and reduces conflicts of interest · Provides opportunities for dissenting panelists to make their views known · Requires communication of uncertainties in scientific findings and conclusions
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Beckham, Custer, Kingfisher, Blaine and Garfield counties on March 9th through 11th. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, March 9: Sayre Town Hall Meeting 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Western Technology Center 2002 NE Highway 66, Sayre, OK 73662 Clinton Town Hall Meeting 11:00 – 12:00 p.m. Frisco Center 101 South 4th Street, Clinton, OK Tuesday, March 10: Kingfisher Town Hall Meeting 2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. Chisholm Trail Museum 605 Zellers Ave., Kingfisher OK Watonga Town Hall Meeting 4:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. City Hall Grand Ballroom 117 N. Weigle, Watonga, OK Wednesday, March 11: Enid Town Hall Meeting 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Gantz Student Center, GU 100 (north side of the Ballroom) 100 South University Avenue, Enid, OK
02.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, today questioned Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen about the impact of the central bank’s quantitative easing policy on older Americans and those saving for retirement. The Federal Reserve’s policies have artificially restrained interest rates, threatening the value of traditionally safer assets such as bonds or bank deposits. At a House Financial Services hearing Lucas noted, “Over the course of the last six years, policy decisions have been made… dramatically causing interest rates to be less than they would have normally been, and at the same time, having an aggressive buying program on certain assets that would in effect hold up their value above and beyond what they would normally be worth that there is a cost there.” Lucas expressed concern about the consequences of these policies on older Oklahomans and those approaching retirement. “Someone is paying for the economic methadone we’ve been existing on for six years,” Lucas said. In response, Yellen acknowledged that “it’s been a tough period for savers…retirees especially”. Addressing concerns from older constituents, Lucas requested numbers from the Federal Reserve reflecting the transfer of value between one asset class to another as a result of quantitative easing.
02.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) and Congressman Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) today introduced H.R. 1029, the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2015, legislation to ensure the science guiding EPA’s regulatory policy is objective, independent and available for public review. The bipartisan bill establishes guidelines for membership to the Science Advisory Board, which advises the EPA’s regulatory decisions. Companion legislation was also introduced today in the Senate by Sens. John Boozman (R-Ark.) and Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.). “I appreciate Congressman Peterson joining me in this bipartisan effort to ensure the best experts are free to undertake a balanced and open review of regulatory science. The Science Advisory Board (SAB) informs the EPA on regulations that impact the lives of millions of Americans,” said Congressman Lucas. “The heavy costs of these regulations warrant some degree of public oversight to ensure SAB’s findings are free from bias or conflicts of interest and not simply provided by a set of handpicked advisors. The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act addresses these issues by ensuring the science guiding EPA’s regulatory policy is open to review by the public and requiring members who serve on this board to disclose their professional backgrounds.” “The Science Advisory Board’s work is important to making sure the EPA considers all scientific information when writing regulations that will impact American farmers, families and small businesses. This legislation builds on the work done in the 2014 Farm Bill and is necessary to ensure the EPA takes into account the best information possible, with input from the public and independent stakeholders. A balanced and independent Science Advisory Board will help alleviate some of the unintended consequences surrounding EPA regulations,” said Congressman Peterson. Background: The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2015 amends the Environmental Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1978 to: Protect the independence of the Advisor Board Provide clear membership requirements of the Advisor Board Make the Board’s advice and comments, including dissenting views, publically available Strengthen and encourage public participation Protect the integrity of scientific advice and process
02.19.2015	Yukon, Okla. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) recently welcomed Kirby Smith to serve as field representative for the southwest portion of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District, which covers 11 counties. Smith, a native of Elk City, previously served as the Public Information Manager for the Oklahoma Department of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. “I am glad to have Kirby join our team,” said Lucas. “With her knowledge of the district and previous work experience, she will be a tremendous asset to my staff and the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District.” “Western Oklahoma is my home, and I’m grateful for the opportunity to be a part of Congressman Lucas’ staff. I look forward to serving the people of Oklahoma’s third district,” said Smith. Smith is a graduate of Oklahoma State University, earning both a Bachelor’s and Master’s degree in Agricultural Communications. She is the daughter of Ralph and Tammy Smith of Elk City. Congressman Lucas’ district office provides several services to constituents, including assistance with federal casework and information regarding federal grants. Smith will work out of Lucas’ Canadian County office. She can be reached at (405) 373-1958.
01.30.2015	El Reno, OK – Today, Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) joined U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, in El Reno to discuss the 2014 Farm Bill and its impact on the state of Oklahoma. The legislation has strengthened several agricultural programs, such as crop insurance, while increasing accountability by repealing direct payments and tightening eligibility requirements. Today’s event at Redlands Community College marks the one-year anniversary of the enactment of the 2014 Farm Bill. “I am glad to be in Oklahoma today to celebrate the one-year anniversary of the Farm Bill,” said Secretary Vilsack. “The Farm Bill has already created jobs, helped farmers reach new markets at home and abroad and boosted the country's economy. This bill has provided much needed disaster relief and reformed programs to better help farmers manage risk. It has also helped families secure home loans, extended credit to small businesses, and invested in innovative research and conservation partnerships in every state. I want to thank Chairman Lucas once again for his hard work in getting this bipartisan bill through Congress and to the President's desk.” “I appreciate Secretary Vilsack joining me in this forum to discuss the Farm Bill and address the legislation’s implementation with constituents,” said Congressman Lucas. “In addition to saving taxpayers $23 billion, this Farm Bill provides a true safety-net to producers in Oklahoma and the rest of the country. As I stressed during the creation process, the Farm Bill is not written for the good times but for when times aren’t so good. I am proud of the work we did and look forward to working with the Secretary in continuing to effectively implement the important reforms included in this Farm Bill.”
01.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) issued the following statement after President Obama delivered his State of the Union Address this evening: “Tonight the president laid out his vision for the remaining two years of his presidency. Americans are eager to see the president work with – not around – Congress, and the new Republican majority in both the House and the Senate is prepared to find areas where we can come together with the president. “We are only two weeks into the 114th Congress and so far we have worked aggressively to introduce commonsense, conservative legislation to get our country back on track. Many of these measures are aimed at making it easier for small businesses to hire new employees by rolling back inefficient regulations that hurt economic growth. “For instance, the House voted to fix a provision within Obamacare that defines full time employment as 30 hours per week, rather than the traditional 40 hours. This provision is just one of many in the president’s vastly complex and unworkable health care law that has discouraged a large number of businesses from hiring more employees. “The House has also passed legislation to approve construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, a project the president’s own State Department predicts will support roughly 42,000 jobs and generate over $2 billion in earnings for American workers. More importantly, the pipeline will establish a pathway toward American energy security by helping to shield our country from the constant global volatility of oil supply and prices. “The Keystone XL pipeline is just one of many energy projects awaiting federal approval. Shale energy production, for example, has the potential to support millions of American jobs while offering a safe and reliable supply of energy. President Obama has the opportunity to make significant progress in this area. Instead, he has focused his efforts on targeting small businesses and ag producers through the Environmental Protection Agency, under arbitrary environmental rulemaking. “Congress has shown that we are willing to get to work. Unfortunately, the president has chosen to further entrench himself in the same political rhetoric we have heard before. This month alone, he has issued six veto threats. And tonight he proposed yet another tax increase, which has essentially no chance of becoming law. “Americans already pay enough in taxes. If anything, we should be working to create a simpler and fairer tax code. Oklahomans know that we cannot tax our way to prosperity, and a larger government will only get in the way of a growing private sector. The president’s plan is flawed because a healthy economy does not originate from Washington. “I strongly believe that jobs and prosperity come from our community – from the small businesses, manufacturers, farmers and ranchers. It’s our innovation and hard work that will keep our country strong for years to come. “If the last six years are any indication of the next two, the president’s promises will prove to be more empty rhetoric. Congress stands ready to work with the president on a number of issues, but every time President Obama chooses to act unilaterally or go around Congress, it contributes to his growing trust deficit with Congress. “Our constituents elected us to represent their interests and values in Washington. Oftentimes, the legislation President Obama is blocking is the same legislation the American people sent us here to pass. The president has an opportunity to set aside his all-or-nothing approach that has driven a sharp ideological wedge in our country. I am willing and ready to work with my colleagues in Congress and the president on the solutions we need to get our country back on track and back to work. I look forward to being a part of a productive 114th Congress.” ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) today voted in favor of H.R. 240, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act. This appropriations bill funds the Department of Homeland Security through FY 2015 and includes several measures aimed at strengthening border security, supporting our country’s current immigration laws and reversing President Obama’s executive order to grant amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants. Lucas released the following statement upon passage of the bill. “Last year, we witnessed record numbers of illegal immigrants – many of them teenagers and children – cross into our country and overwhelm state and local resources. Instead of swiftly and decisively acting to stem this tide of illegal immigration, President Obama’s words and actions sent a mixed message to many in other countries that it is all right to enter the United States illegally. “There is a reasonable expectation and responsibility for the federal government to secure our nation’s borders, yet the president seems more interested in granting amnesty to the millions of undocumented immigrants who have already entered our country. “The president’s unilateral power grab on immigration back in November was unprecedented, undemocratic and circumvents the principles of our Constitution. Today’s legislation serves as a reminder that apart from signing or vetoing legislation, the White House cannot write or change laws on its own. President Obama can no longer rely on the Senate to obstruct legislation for political reasons, and I look forward to working towards more common sense solutions, whether it’s on immigration, national security or cutting red tape,” said Congressman Lucas. H.R. 240 provides $39.7 billion in funding for the Department of Homeland Security. The bill increases funding for CBP (Customs and Border Protection) to support the largest operational force of nearly 50,000 Border Patrol agents and CBP officers. It also increases funding for ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) by $689.4 million and fully funds the E-Verify program to discourage businesses from hiring illegal immigrants. ###
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) voted today in support of H.R. 3, legislation to approve construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline. The bill passed the House by a vote of 266 to 153. Lucas released the following statement upon the bill’s passage. “It’s time for President Obama to make a decision on the Keystone XL Pipeline. While I believe this project is a no-brainer in terms of promoting American energy security and spurring job growth in our country, the president continues to walk a fine political line with members of his own party. “After over half a decade of deliberation and increasing support from the public, it’s time to move forward and build the pipeline. “I am disappointed that President Obama has already threatened to veto this commonsense project, and I look forward to hearing his explanation to the American people as to why he is blocking legislation that will boost our economy and create jobs.” The State Department has predicted construction of the pipeline will support roughly 42,000 jobs and generate $2.05 billion in earnings for American workers.
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) voted today to support passage of H.R. 30, the Save American Workers Act, legislation that changes Obamacare’s definition of a full time employee from 30 hours per week to 40 hours per week. “By defining full time employment as 30 hours per week, rather than the traditional 40 hours, Obamacare has had a devastating impact on many small businesses and hourly workers in our country. The Save American Workers Act allows these businesses to hire more employees and helps ensure part-time workers the increased financial security of a steady paycheck and consistent hours. “This legislation represents the priorities of the new Republican majority in Congress by suggesting a commonsense fix to the president’s vastly complex, unworkable and expensive health care law.” said Congressman Lucas.
12.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, voted today to support passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (TRIA), legislation that helps establish insurance coverage for acts of terrorism. This bill strengthens economic growth and security in our country by providing certainty over the next six years to American enterprises. “The long-term extension of the Terrorism Risk Insurance program means greater stability for our nation’s job creators. We cannot allow grave threats from the Islamic State and other terrorist organizations to stifle our country’s growing economy. Rebuilding is a critical element in standing up to terrorism, and I believe this wartime measure provides an extremely important piece of mind for consumers and industries in the United States,” said Congressman Lucas. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act originally established the Federal Terrorism Insurance Program in 2002 to oversee a public-private system of compensation for insured losses due to acts of terrorism after many businesses were unable to purchase insurance protection following the attacks of September 11. Since its inception, the program has incurred a net cost of zero dollars to the United States Treasury.
12.01.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s recent announcement that he will issue an executive order to prevent the deportation of millions of immigrants who entered the United States illegally. “Rather than working with Congress on the issue of immigration, President Obama has declared amnesty for millions of illegal immigrants. The president’s brazen use of executive action to bypass our nation’s immigration laws threatens the sanctity of our border, does nothing to stem the growing tide of illegal immigration and delays the prospect of fixing our legal immigration system. “The president’s single-minded approach on immigration will not work, and he must remember that it is his constitutional duty to implement, not write, the law. If he is serious about immigration reform, President Obama must first work with Congress to secure the border and enforce, rather than ignore, our nation’s laws,” said Congressman Lucas.
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas issued the following statement today upon passage of H.R. 5078, the Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act. This legislation prohibits the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers from finalizing, implementing, and enforcing a proposed rule that would redefine “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act. It is the authority of Congress, not the administration, to change the scope of the Clean Water Act. “I’m pleased the House approved this commonsense legislation to block the EPA from expanding its control of our nation’s land and water resources. This bipartisan bill will preserve states’ rights and it ensures the Obama administration consult state and local officials on any future proposal to regulate our nation’s waters under the Clean Water Act. “The EPA is once again seeking to overstep its authority and we are here to remind them of the balance of powers. The agency’s proposed rule to redefine waters of the United States would trigger an onslaught of additional red tape for farmers and ranchers in Oklahoma and across the nation. Protecting our natural resources is a noble cause and one that the agriculture community stands solidly behind. However, the EPA’s proposed rule is an underhanded way to harm American agriculture and threaten our country’s food security,” said Congressman Lucas. ###
07.29.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 4315, the 21st Century Endangered Species Transparency Act. Lucas was a cosponsor of the legislation, which passed the House 233-190. “Farmers and ranchers in Oklahoma have gone to great lengths to comply with arbitrary listings of threatened species on their land. These listings often carry increased regulatory burdens that damage our local economies. “I am pleased the House passed this commonsense legislation to promote openness in the listing process and provide land owners with a greater degree of certainty.” This legislation would require the Secretary of Interior to publicly disclose the best scientific and commercial data available that are the basis for regulation under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). Earlier this month, Congressman Lucas joined several House colleagues in sending a letter to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack requesting an analysis of cost and effectiveness of USDA conservation programs on the Lesser Prairie Chicken (LPC), found in parts of Oklahoma. Despite its recent population increase of more than 20 percent, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service lists the LPC as threatened under the ESA; an action seemingly at odds with the best available data. ###
05.27.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Alfalfa, Beaver, Cimarron, Texas and Woods counties June 2&3. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, June 2: Boise City Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. PTCI Room 115 West Main Street Guymon Town Hall Meeting 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. PTCI Meeting Room 607 South Main Beaver Town Hall Meeting 4:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Beaver County Farm Bureau 812 South Douglas Tuesday, June 3: Cherokee Town Hall Meeting 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. Alfalfa County Farm Bureau 113 South Grand Alva Town Hall Meeting 3:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. NWOSU Student Center, Ranger Room 709 Oklahoma Avenue --30--
05.22.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 4435, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2015. This is the fifty-third consecutive NDAA, and it is the key mechanism to provide funding for our nation’s military. “I am very pleased the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act today to provide for the common defense of the United States,” said Lucas. “I commend Chairman McKeon and members of the House Armed Services Committee for their hard work and diligence in preparing the NDAA to meet the constitutional obligation of protecting our great country. “H.R. 4435 equips our Department of Defense (DoD) with the resources needed to protect American citizens in a constantly changing security environment. It provides our men and women in uniform the tools they need to protect our national security interests domestic and abroad. The NDAA also reaffirms the nuclear deterrence of Iran as a vital national security interest, as well as continues to build upon our longstanding alliance with Israel by investing in their missile defense programs. Further, it prevents the President from using funds to transfer Guantanamo detainees to American soil. “It is crucial that we always provide adequate resources for our nation’s military, and I am pleased H.R. 4435 accomplishes this important goal. It is my hope this NDAA will be passed in the Senate and signed into law by President Obama.” --30--
05.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Danny Nguyen, Yukon, Okla. native, to his district office on Monday to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. “It is with great pleasure to congratulate Danny on his acceptance to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point,” said Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his dedication to serve our country, but it also demonstrates what bright and capable students we have in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. I am very proud of Danny, and I wish him only the best this fall and continued success in his future endeavors.” Nguyen is currently a student at Mustang High School in Mustang, Okla. He is a member of the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps and plans to study engineering and military history. Additionally, he started his high school triathlon team. He is the son of Minh and Ha Nguyen, of Yukon, Okla. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014-2015 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. Photo Attached: Pictured (LEFT to RIGHT): Ha Nguyen, Yukon, OK; Danny Nguyen, Yukon, OK: Congressman Frank Lucas. --30--
05.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Carter Loosen, Kingfisher, Okla. native, to his district office Monday to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. “It is with great pleasure to congratulate Carter on his acceptance to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado,” said Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his dedication to serve our country, but it also demonstrates what bright and capable students we have in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. I am very proud of Carter, and I wish him only the best this fall and continued success in his future endeavors.” Loosen is currently a student at Kingfisher High School in Kingfisher, Okla. He plays the tenor sax, bass guitar, piano and sings. Additionally, he is a black belt in karate and has two grandfathers who have served in the military. Loosen was also accepted to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point; however, he chose the Air Force Academy. He is the son of Clay Loosen of Watonga, Okla., and Jeff and Marette Foreman of Kingfisher, Okla. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 - 2015 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. Photo Attached: Pictured (LEFT to RIGHT): Jeff Foreman, Kingfisher, OK; Marette Foreman, Kingfisher, OK; Carter Loosen, Kingfisher, OK; Congressman Frank Lucas. --30--
05.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Brendon Arnold, Enid, Okla. native, to his district office Monday to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. “It is with great pleasure to congratulate Brendon on his acceptance to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado,” said Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his dedication to serve our country, but it also demonstrates what bright and capable students we have in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. I am very proud of Brendon, and I wish him only the best this fall and continued success in his future endeavors.” Arnold is currently a student at the Oklahoma Bible Academy in Enid, Okla. He has been on mission trips in Guatemala and Poland, sings in the choir, and runs track and cross country. Additionally, his grandfather James Turley served in the Air Force for 22 years. Arnold is the son of Christopher and Angela Arnold, of Enid, Okla. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 - 2015 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. PHOTO ATTACHED: Pictured: Brendon Arnold --30--
05.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed John Choi, Enid, Okla. native, to his district office on Monday to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. “It is with great pleasure to congratulate John on his acceptance to the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis,” said Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his dedication to serve our country, but it also demonstrates what bright and capable students we have in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. I am very proud of John, and I wish him only the best this fall and continued success in his future endeavors.” Choi is currently a student at Enid High School in Enid, Okla. He is a member of the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps and plans to study aeronautical, astronautical and mechanical engineering. He is the son of Abraham and Sun Kim Choi, of Enid, Okla. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 - 2015 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. Photo Attached: Pictured: John Choi (LEFT), Congressman Frank Lucas (RIGHT) --30--
05.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Jacob Darnell, Edmond, Okla. native, to his district office Monday to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. “It is with great pleasure to congratulate Jacob on his acceptance to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado,” said Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his dedication to serve our country, but it also demonstrates what bright and capable students we have in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. I am very proud of Jacob, and I wish him only the best this fall and continued success in his future endeavors.” Darnell is currently a student at Edmond North High School in Edmond, Okla. He is the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps drill team commander and is on the varsity cross country team. Additionally, his father and grandfather both served in the armed forces. He is the son of Charles and Pamela Darnell, of Edmond, Okla. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014-2015 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. Photo Attached: Pictured: Jacob Darnell --30--
05.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Jacob Klamm, Enid, Okla. native, to his district office on Monday to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. “It is with great pleasure to congratulate Jacob on his acceptance to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point,” said Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his dedication to serve our country, but it also demonstrates what bright and capable students we have in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. I am very proud of Jacob, and I wish him only the best this fall and continued success in his future endeavors.” Klamm is currently a student at Enid High School in Enid, Okla. He is an Eagle Scout and a member of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. Additionally, he plays soccer and is a member of the band. He is the son of Kevin and Leslie Klamm, of Enid, Okla. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014-2015 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. Photo Attached: Pictured: Jacob Klamm --30--
05.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas hosted two service academy receptions on Monday, in his Yukon, Okla. district office, for Oklahoma Third Congressional District students who applied to serve in the United States Service Academies. “It was a pleasure visiting with these bright young men and women in my district office,” said Lucas. “I am very proud to have students in my district who are motivated and willing to serve our great country through the service academies. I am also very pleased the military academies provide a top-notch education for those who are accepted. I am grateful for the students who attended the reception and wish them only the best in their future endeavors.” At Monday’s reception, Lucas visited with the applicants about the academies and discussed the importance and dedication of serving in the armed forces. This year, 19 Third District students applied to our nation’s Academies, and six of them were accepted to serve. The students accepted will begin classes in the fall and are committing to at least four years at the Academy and five years with the service. Four of our five Service Academies require a Congressional nomination, including the U.S. Military Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Naval Academy. The fifth, the Coast Guard Academy, doesn’t require a Congressional nomination. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014-2015 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. Photo Caption for PHOTO 1 (ATTACHED): Congressman Lucas hosts a Service Academy reception for Third District students who applied to serve in the United States Service Academies. (Pictured: Left to Right – John Choi, Enid, OK; Carter Loosen, Kingfisher, OK; Congressman Frank Lucas; Danny Nguyen, Yukon, OK) Photo Caption for PHOTO 2 (ATTACHED): Congressman Lucas hosts a Service Academy reception for Third District students who applied to serve in the United States Service Academies. (Pictured: Left to Right – Sean Islas, Enid, OK; Coleton Winters, Woodward, OK; Congressman Frank Lucas; Robert Davidson, Altus, OK; Michael Cord, Yukon, OK) --30--
05.07.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today voted in favor of a resolution to hold former Internal Revenue Service (IRS) official, Lois Lerner in Contempt of Congress. Lucas made the following statement after the resolution passed the House with a 231 to 187 vote. “The U.S. House Committees on Ways and Means and Oversight and Government Reform have worked tirelessly to uncover startling facts revealing the IRS unfairly targeted conservatives who were seeking tax exempt status,” said Lucas. “These committees have given Lois Lerner multiple opportunities to comply with Congressional inquiries and come forward with relevant information in the IRS scandal; however she has failed to cooperate. Due to Lerner’s actions, I believe it was necessary for the House to pass this resolution to hold her in contempt of Congress. It is my hope that she will now cooperate with Congressional authorities and come forward with pertinent information regarding this scandal. It is critical that all the facts are revealed and the trust of the American people is restored.” --30--
05.06.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today announced Ashley Ghazal of Skiatook, Okla., as the Third District 2014 Congressional Art Competition grand prize winner. Her artwork is titled, “Her Eyes,” and it was drawn with charcoal and chalk. “It is an honor to announce Ashley as this year’s winner of the Congressional Art Competition,” said Lucas. “Her artwork is very impressive and demonstrates what an exceptional talent she possesses. I am proud her drawing will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol corridor for thousands of visitors who will visit this year. I know this is only one of the many future works of art Ashley will produce, and I urge her to continue pursuing her interests. I wish her only the best in the future.” Ghazal’s artwork will be displayed in the corridor tunnel leading to the U.S. Capitol for one year, along with the winning entries from other Congressional districts. Additionally, Ghazal will receive free airfare for two to participate in the Congressional Art Competition’s ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. this summer. Ghazal is a senior at Skiatook High School, and she is the daughter of Mazin and Jacqueline Ghazal of Skiatook, Okla. In addition to Ghazal’s winning entry, Hadley Smith, of Cheyenne, Okla., won second place with her pencil drawing, titled, “Bucky.” Her artwork will be displayed in Lucas’ District office in Yukon, Oklahoma. Lucas also held a Facebook competition to choose a “Fan Favorite,” and Hannah Shivers, of Yukon, Okla., won this contest with her acrylic painting, titled “Home.” Shivers will receive a U.S. flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in her honor. To view the winning artwork and the other entries, please visit https://lucas.house.gov/2014-art-competition-entries. --30--
04.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 4486, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2015. The bill provides a total of $165 billion in Fiscal Year 2015 to fund military construction projects and programs of the Veterans Affairs (VA) Department. It passed the House today with a 416 to 1 vote. “One of the federal government’s top priorities should always be to protect the men and women in uniform who have fought and continue to fight to preserve our freedom in the United States today,” said Lucas. “H.R. 4486 helps achieve this by providing a total of $165 billion so we can continue investing in the physical infrastructure of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). This funding fulfills our obligation to our nation’s military personnel by ensuring they can continue operating in a functional and productive environment. “In addition, H.R. 4486 guarantees the Department of Veterans Affairs is provided with the resources needed to fulfill our moral duty of taking care of our nation’s veterans. This legislation increases discretionary funding for veterans programs by $1.5 billion above last year’s spending levels, while in-turn increasing efficiency and minimizing barriers our veterans face in receiving their benefits. “We must always keep true to the promises we made to our nation’s service-members and veterans when they decided to courageously serve our country. I am pleased the House passed H.R. 4486 to fulfill this important goal. It is my hope this legislation will be passed in the Senate and signed into law by President Obama.” --30--
04.16.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Woodward and Dewey counties April 24. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Thursday, April 24, 2014: Woodward Town Hall Meeting 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. Woodward Conference Center, Meeting Room 2 3401 Centennial Lane Taloga Town Hall Meeting 3:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Great Plains National Bank, Community Room 100 South Broadway --30--
04.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 2575, the Save American Workers Act with a 248 to 179 vote. “Lately, President Obama has been touting what he defines as success with Obamacare. In reality the flawed health care law isn’t working. As I continue listening to my constituents in Oklahoma’s Third District, it is obvious they are still struggling with the Affordable Care Act. Many keep worrying about skyrocketing premiums, canceled plans, losing their doctors and complying with onerous mandates. “One mandate that has added an extra layer of burden on hard-working Americans is Obamacare’s employer mandate, which requires employers with 50 or more full-time employees to provide health insurance to their entire workforce. Currently, Obamacare classifies any employee who works more than 30 hours a week to be full-time. Thus, many small businesses that fall within these criteria are suddenly facing a dramatic and unanticipated shift in their cost structure. Additionally, hourly workers are seeing their wages cut due to the 30-hour rule. This mandate, unfortunately, is among the most cumbersome regulations found in the so-called “Affordable Care Act”. “To help ease the burden of Obamacare’s employer mandate, the House passed the Save American Workers Act. This bill modifies the definition of full-time employees as those who work 40 hours or more in a given week, and eliminates the incentive for businesses to cut employees hours. I am pleased this legislation helps ease the burden of Obamacare’s employer mandate and gives Americans the certainty they deserve in the workplace.” --30--
03.27.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the United States Fish and Wildlife Service announced the Lesser Prairie Chicken (LPC) as threatened under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). “I was disappointed the Fish and Wildlife Service announced the listing of the Lesser Prairie Chicken as threatened under the Endangered Species Act,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “I believe the conservation efforts seen in the five-range states were more than sufficient to warrant a non-listing of the LPC. While I understand the importance of conserving the species, this means Oklahoma farmers, ranchers and energy producers will have to abide to an additional layer of burdensome regulations. “Looking forward, it is my hope the Obama Administration will realize saddling Americans with additional regulatory burdens through arbitrary means is harmful to the economy. The efforts by Oklahomans to conserve the species were and continue to be unprecedented. As the Congressman representing the Third District, I will continue working with stakeholders to preserve the future of the industries important to Oklahoma and the rest of the country.” --30--
03.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 4015, the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2014 with a 237 to 182 vote. “In 1988, the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) was established to address concerns regarding Medicare’s payments for physician services,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “Since then, Congress has enacted temporary solutions to the flawed physician reimbursement system, and the physician community has been faced with the recurring prospects of detrimental cuts to their Medicare reimbursements. The cumulative uncertainty of these temporary fixes over the past several decades has made it difficult for physicians to run a sustainable business. ”I am pleased the House passed the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act today to create a permanent solution that provides the physician community the stability, predictability and fairness they deserve. It is my hope that this legislation will be passed in the Senate and sent to the president’s desk for his signature.” --30--
03.12.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Greer, Harmon, Jackson, Kiowa and Washita counties March 19 & 20. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Wednesday, March 19: Mangum Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Mangum Welcome Center 119 East Jefferson Hollis Town Hall Meeting 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. Hollis Civic Center 208 West Jones Altus Town Hall Meeting 3:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Altus Municipal Complex, City Council Chamber 509 South Main Street Thursday, March 20: Snyder Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Snyder Public School, John D. McKee Auditorium 515 9th Street Hobart Town Hall Meeting 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Stanley Building 300 South Washington Cordell Town Hall Meeting 4:30 p.m. – 5:30 p.m. Police Department, Precinct Room 105 West Main Street --30--
03.05.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4118, the SIMPLE Fairness Act. This legislation passed the House today with a 250 to 160 vote. “As Americans continue to struggle with President Obama’s Affordable Care Act, it is important that we continue to work in Congress to provide relief from the flawed law,” said Lucas. “The Administration has already admitted the law is unworkable and delayed the employer mandate for a year. Now, it is time to provide the same relief for American families and individuals, and I am pleased the House passed the SIMPLE Fairness Act to help accomplish this goal. “H.R. 4118 provides relief for Americans facing issues with Obamacare by eliminating the individual mandate penalty for the remainder of the year. This legislation creates fairness for all Americans and provides a step forward in dismantling the catastrophic health care law. “I have voted numerous times to repeal or defund portions of the law, and as the Congressman Representing Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District, I will continue to support measures that postpone onerous provisions and dismantle Obamacare. Hardworking Americans deserve quality health care that isn’t rationed by the federal government.” --30--
02.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed multiple pieces of legislation this week to help “Stop Government Abuse” and restore certainty for Americans. “This week, we worked in the House to pass another series of bills to address government abuse and rein in the Obama Administration’s executive overreach. As Americans worry about the sluggish economy and lack of jobs, it is important that we work in Congress to help reduce burdens on families across the country. I am very pleased the legislation we passed this week helps accomplish this goal. “For instance, I voted in favor of H.R. 1423, the Taxpayers Right-to-Know Act, sponsored by my colleague from Oklahoma, Congressman James Lankford. This legislation restores accountability and protects American taxpayers by requiring every federal agency to provide an annual report of programs, costs and expenditures. Taxpayers fund these agencies, and they have the right to know how their money is being spent. I am glad this legislation will help reduce wasteful spending and create government transparency. “I was also proud to support H.R. 2531, the Protecting Taxpayers from Intrusive IRS Requests Act. This legislation protects taxpayer’s first amendment rights by preventing the IRS from asking any taxpayer questions regarding political, religious or social beliefs. In addition, we passed H.R. 3865, the Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act, which prevents proposed IRS regulations on 501(c)(4) organizations from taking effect. Unfortunately, the IRS has unfairly targeted conservative individuals and groups in the past – therefore, this legislation is necessary to help protect citizen’s constitutionally enshrined rights. “Additionally, I was pleased to support a number of other bills this week that work toward the same goals of cutting waste, empowering American taxpayers, and restoring accountability in Washington. It is my hope that this comprehensive package of bills will be passed in the Senate and signed into law by President Obama. It is crucial that we restore the American people’s trust in our government and give them the certainty they deserve.” Below you can find the full list of ‘stop government abuse’ bills passed in the House this week: H.R. 899 - Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act of 2013H.R. 3865 - Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act of 2014H.R. 2122 - Regulatory Accountability Act of 2013H.R. 1493 - Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act of 2013H.R. 2542 - Regulatory Flexibility Improvements ActH.R. 2804 - ALERT ActH.R. 1211 - FOIA ActH.R. 1232 - Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform ActH.R. 1423 - Taxpayers Right-To-Know ActH.R. 3308 - Taxpayer Transparency Act of 2013H.R. 1944 - Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2013H.R. 1123 - Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act --30--
01.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s sixth State of the Union address. “Once again, President Obama focused his State of the Union address on the nation’s sluggish economy and unemployment problems,” said Lucas. “He made these same issues the focal point in previous speeches; however Americans have yet to see him produce a plan that puts the jobless back to work and boosts the economy. This time, I hope the president will actually fulfill the promises he made to the American people in his speech tonight. “In order for the president to move forward and create economic certainty, he must make reducing government spending his top priority. Our national debt stands at an outstanding $17.3 trillion and is increasing at an average of $2.5 billion per day. Since the president took office in 2009, the debt has increased by more than $6 trillion, and Americans have continuously expressed their concerns with the country’s out of control spending. The president must realize the federal government has a spending problem, and he must work with Congress to make significant cuts to help address the U.S. debt crises. “In addition, the president must quit ignoring the many opportunities we have to create jobs in America. For instance, he has failed to approve of the northern leg of the Keystone XL Pipeline, which has the potential to produce tens of thousands of jobs in our country. In the House, we have voted seven separate times to move forward with construction; however, the president and Senate have refused to act on this shovel-ready project. We have also passed dozens of other jobs bills in the House that the Senate has failed to consider. We remain ready to work with the president and Senate colleagues to find middle ground and pass legislation that will kick-start jobs in the U.S. “The president has stated that he wants to make this a ‘year of action,’ however, he must realize using executive action and bypassing Congress is not the way to make this a reality. It is crucial that he works with us to find ways to create certainty for Americans and get our economy back on the right path. As the Congressman representing Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District, I look forward to working with the president and leaders of Congress to help accomplish these important goals.” --30--
01.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after Senator Tom Coburn announced he will resign his seat at the end of the 113th legislative session. “Dr. Coburn has proven to be a dedicated servant to the people of the great state of Oklahoma,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “Throughout his tenure, he has worked tirelessly to provide ways to cut government waste, eliminate fraud and abuse of taxpayer’s dollars, and create economic certainty for all Americans. His commitment to solving our country’s fiscal crises serves as a true testament to his hard-working spirit. He has been an influential leader during his time in office, and I know he will accomplish more as he finishes out the 113th session. I respect his decision to retire from the Senate, and I wish him and his family only the best in their future.” --30--
11.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed three separate pieces of legislation that promotes domestic energy production, creates jobs and cuts government red-tape. All three of the bills: H.R. 1965, the Federal Lands Jobs and Energy Security Act; H.R. 2728, the Protecting States’ Rights to Promote American Energy Security Act; and H.R. 1900, the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act, passed the House this week. “I am pleased this legislation passed the House this week,” said Lucas. “These bills provide a tremendous opportunity to not only increase domestic energy production, but to also protect and create jobs. Additionally, this legislation cuts government red-tape to give the energy sector the resources needed to thrive. “H.R. 1965, the Federal Lands Jobs and Energy Security Act would establish an efficient process to responsibly produce both renewable and conventional energy in the United States. For years, the Administration has delayed the process for approving permits to drill on federal land, while in-turn hindering domestic energy production. I am glad this legislation addresses this issue by ensuring the Interior Secretary sets a firm timeline to act on permits to drill. “H.R. 1900, the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act would direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to approve or deny natural gas pipeline permit applications within one year. This is another instance of the House taking action to speed-up Administration decisions that are currently inhibiting business and energy production. “H.R. 2728, the Protecting States’ Rights to Promote American Energy Security Act helps reduce bureaucratic red-tape by limiting the Administration’s ability to impose duplicative and burdensome federal regulations on hydraulic fracturing. I am pleased H.R. 2728 accomplishes this goal by prohibiting the Interior Department from enforcing federal regulations in states that already have their own regulations established. “It is my hope that these bills will be sent to the U.S. Senate for passage and to the president’s desk for his signature. The State of Oklahoma has always been a leader in domestic energy production, and as the Representative of the Third Congressional District, I will continue to support legislation to help promote American energy production, eliminate government roadblocks, and foster a healthier economy.” --30--
11.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act. The legislation passed the House today with a 261 to 157 vote. “I am pleased H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act, passed the House today,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “President Obama promised Americans multiple times that they could keep their health care plan if they liked it. However; he failed to fulfill that promise. I have heard from many constituents in the Third District who have lost their plans because they didn’t meet the requirements under Obamacare, and millions more across the country are facing the same issues. “While the president offered a proposal attempting to fix the problems his health care law created, actual legislation is needed before real solutions can be implemented. That is why I am glad the House passed the Keep Your Health Plan Act today. This legislation would give Americans relief from the president’s flawed health care law by allowing health insurers to continue offering their old plans. H.R. 3350 would therefore ensure that Americans who are able to keep their health plan would not face onerous penalties under Obamacare’s individual mandate. “Americans deserve a break from Obamacare, and I am pleased this legislation will help accomplish this goal. Too many people are facing hardships with the law, and that is why I will continue to work in the House to pass legislation that will help ease the unnecessary burdens that the president’s disastrous health care law has placed on the American people.” --30--
10.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Blaine, Caddo, Custer and Kingfisher counties November 5 and 7. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, November 5: Clinton Town Hall Meeting 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Frisco Center 101 South 4th Weatherford Town Hall Meeting 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. SWOSU Conference Center 1121 North 7th Street Thursday, November 7: Anadarko Town Hall Meeting 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. City Hall, Council Chamber 501 West Virginia Watonga Town Hall Meeting 2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. City Hall, Grand Ballroom 117 North Weigle Kingfisher Town Hall Meeting 4:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Chisholm Trail Museum 605 Zellers Avenue --30--
09.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after voting in favor of H.J. Res. 59, the Continuing Appropriations Resolution for FY 2014. The Continuing Resolution (CR) passed the House today with a 230 to 189 vote. “I am pleased we passed this Continuing Resolution to meet our obligation of funding the federal government for the rest of this year,” said Lucas. “It is important that we avoid a government shutdown and help create economic certainty in our country. Now looking forward, the federal government needs to find common sense ways to cut spending and live within our means, just like American families do every day. “Additionally, I am pleased the CR creates a full and permanent delay of Obamacare. My constituents in the Third District and many others across the country have spoken loud and clear in opposition of this flawed law. This vote reassures Americans that the House remains committed to providing quality health care reform that is not rationed by the federal government. “It is my hope that H.J. Res. 59 will be passed in the Senate and sent to the president’s desk for his signature. The American people are depending on it.” --30--
09.11.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement on the 12th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks. “It is hard to believe that it has been 12 years since the 9/11 terrorist attacks devastated the United States, took the lives of many, and forever altered the lives of loved ones who were left behind,” said Lucas. “We will never forget the many emotions that flooded us when the attacks occurred that day. “While there was an overwhelming amount of tragedy, suffering and hardship, we also saw our nation unify and work together to make the best out of a tragic situation. On 9/11 there were many first responders, firefighters, policemen, public officials, organizations and volunteers who were proactive and quick to respond to the attacks. “The way citizens responded to the attacks that day is a true testament of what our great country stands for. Today, it is important that we all take a moment to remember those who lost their lives on this day 12 years ago, and express gratitude to those who provided assistance. “Additionally, I am extremely grateful to the men and women who work to protect Americans everywhere. It is important that we continue investing in our nation’s defense and equip our men and women in uniform with the resources they need to ensure an attack like 9/11 never happens again.” --30--
09.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – United States Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement to express his opposition to U.S. military intervention in Syria. “After listening to my constituents at town hall meetings and hearing from them through many phone calls and emails,” said Lucas, “it is obvious they are overwhelmingly opposed to U.S. military intervention in Syria, and I completely agree with them. “Upon returning to Washington, D.C. and participating in a classified briefing conducted by the Administration, State Department, Office of the Director of Intelligence, House Intelligence Committee and the Department of Defense, I can assure the people of the Third District that I will not support any of the military options currently proposed and being debated in the U.S. House of Representatives. Military involvement in Syria is not in America’s best interest and President Obama has yet to put forth a plan that convinces me that we should get involved.” --30--
08.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas recently welcomed Yukon, Okla. native, Jeremy Bennett to his district office. Bennett was hired by Lucas to serve as a field representative covering Canadian, Kingfisher, Garfield, Grant, Alfalfa, Major, and Payne Counties. “I am very pleased to welcome Jeremy to my district office,” said Lucas. “He has always lived in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District, and he is in touch with the issues constituents are most concerned about. I know with his educational background and knowledge, he will be a wonderful asset to my office and my constituents. I am glad to have him join our team.” As a field representative, Bennett will act as a grassroots representative for Lucas, keeping the Congressman informed on developments in the area and attending events on Lucas’ behalf when he is in Washington. Prior to accepting his new position in Lucas’ office, Bennett was the Graduate Teaching Assistant for the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources at Oklahoma State University. He graduated from OSU with a bachelor’s in Environmental Science in the spring of 2011. Bennett also received his master’s in Agricultural Economics in the spring of 2013. “As a constituent of the Third District, I am thrilled to work for Congressman Lucas,” said Bennett. “I am excited to represent and serve the citizens in the district in my new role as a field representative.” Bennett is the son of Bill and Tracy Bennett of Yukon and Sandii Bennett of Oklahoma City. He is the grandson of Linda and Jim Jones of Oklahoma City and Gene and Betty Bennett of Shawnee. Lucas’ Oklahoma office provides a myriad of services to constituents, including assisting in dealings with federal agencies and providing information and assistance with obtaining federal grants. When he is not working in his field area, Bennett will work in Lucas’ Canadian County office. He can be reached at (405) 373-1958. --30--
08.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Alfalfa, Garfield, Grant, Kay and Noble counties Sept. 4 and 5. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Wednesday, September 4, 2013: Enid Town Hall Meeting 11:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Northern Oklahoma College (Briggs Auditorium) 100 South University Avenue Cherokee Town Hall Meeting 2:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Alfalfa County Farm Bureau 113 South Grand Medford Town Hall Meeting 4:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Medford City Hall 615 North Front Thursday, September 5, 2013:Ponca City Town Hall Meeting 9:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m. Pioneer Technology Center (Seminar Center) 2101 North Ash Street Blackwell Town Hall Meeting 10:30 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. Kay Electric (Kay Room) 300 West Doolin Perry Town Hall Meeting 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Perry Municipal Building 729 Cedar Street --30--
08.02.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed, H.R. 2009, Keep the IRS Off Your Health Care Act of 2013. This legislation passed the House today with a 232 to 185 vote. “I am pleased H.R. 2009 passed the House today to prevent the IRS from implementing any portion of Obamacare,” said Lucas. “American families are concerned about the negative effects they have already experienced from this flawed law, and the full impact has yet to be seen. Recent IRS scandals have proved the agency is incapable of fulfilling their basic duties, so I find it hard to believe they would ever be capable of implementing any type of health care. “I remain committed to repealing Obamacare in its entirety, and I have co-sponsored bills in the past three Congressional sessions to help accomplish this goal. Additionally, I will work to make certain the IRS maintains their proper role as a federal agency. It is my hope that H.R. 2009 will be passed in the Senate and signed into law by the president.” --30--
08.02.2013	Washington D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today hailed passage of H.R. 367, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2013. This legislation passed the House today with a 232 to 183 vote. “The American private sector continues to struggle due to unnecessary regulatory initiatives put in place by federal agencies,” said Lucas. “I am pleased this legislation prevents agencies from implementing major regulations without congressional approval. We must always make certain we are giving businesses the opportunities they need to thrive and be successful. This legislation helps accomplish this by creating oversight and transparency so we can help keep unnecessary regulations from being implemented. This in-turn will protect U.S. jobs and boost our economy.” --30--
08.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today praised passage of H.R. 2879, the Stop Government Abuse Act. The United States House of Representatives passed the legislation today with a 239 to 176 vote. This bill helps prevent government abuse by setting restraints on a runaway federal government, and giving more freedom to the American citizens. “I am pleased the House passed this legislation today,” said Lucas. “At a time when Americans are struggling through a weak economy, it is crucial that we find ways to reduce government red tape and prevent abuse from taking place in Washington. “This legislation would empower the American people by allowing them the freedom to record their in-person and telephone exchanges with federal officials. At times, U.S. citizens deal with harassment while interacting with government agencies. We must make certain Americans have the authority to defend themselves when this type of abuse occurs. “Additionally, this legislation puts an end to the outrageous bonuses that federal employees have been receiving. At a time when we are facing an enormous deficit, it is important that we exercise restraint in federal spending. “Lastly, this legislation allows federal agencies to place employees on investigative leave without pay, if they engage in disorderly conduct. Federal employees must always be held accountable for their actions. “I am pleased H.R. 2879, helps us accomplish the goal of cutting waste and establishing more accountability in Washington, which in-turn creates greater certainty for American citizens. It is my hope that this legislation will be passed in the Senate and signed into law by President Obama.” --30--
08.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today voted in favor of H.R. 1582, The Energy Consumers Relief Act, which helps protect Americans from new billion-dollar Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations. The legislation passed the United States House of Representatives today with a 232 to 181 vote. “Today the House made a significant step in creating oversight and transparency within the EPA,” said Lucas. “The agency’s regulations continue to place an unnecessary burden on American businesses and destroy jobs. I am pleased this legislation helps address these issues by requiring the EPA to submit a report to Congress detailing certain cost, benefit, energy prices and job impacts on new rules costing more than $1 billion. “It is crucial that Congress and the EPA fully understand the impact of new rules and the effects they have on the American economy and energy prices. I am pleased this bill will help protect jobs and allow the energy sector to thrive in our country. The Energy Consumers Relief Act should be passed by the Senate and sent to President Obama’s desk for his signature.” --30--
07.29.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today announced the Oklahoma Dental Association (ODA) is hosting an event on Wednesday, July 31, called ‘Back to School with a Healthy Smile’. This is a new ODA program that provides free dental screenings to elementary school children just weeks before they return to school. “I am pleased the Oklahoma Dental Association is hosting this new event for families in Oklahoma,” said Lucas. “This program will allow parents the opportunity to gain knowledge about their child’s dental health and get their children prepared for the school year by offering free dental screenings. I encourage all Oklahomans to participate in this event on Wednesday.” The ODA’s 'Back to School with a Healthy Smile' event helps combat poor oral health among Oklahoma’s children. Dentists across the state have signed up to provide free dental exams at their individual offices to elementary school children. For a list of dentists participating and more information, visit the ODA web site at https://www.okda.org/ForthePublic.aspx. --30--
07.25.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today voted in favor of passage of H.R. 2218, the Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act of 2013. This legislation establishes Federal minimum requirements for the management and disposal of coal combustion residuals. It passed the United States House of Representatives today with a 265 to 155 vote. “I am pleased the Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act passed the House today,” said Lucas. “This legislation empowers the states to develop their own permitting programs and removes the option for the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate Solid Waste Disposal. It makes a positive step in reigning in the EPA and helps protect jobs by shifting regulatory power back to the states. “I have always looked for solutions to stop the regulatory expansion of the EPA, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House to accomplish this goal. It is my hope this legislation will be passed by the Senate and signed into law by President Obama.” --30--
07.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the United States House of Representatives voted for passage of H.R. 2397, the Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations Act of 2014. This legislation passed the House today with a 315 to 109 vote. “I am pleased the DoD Appropriations Act passed the House today,” said Lucas. “This legislation appropriates necessary funding for our nation’s men and women in uniform and provides for the common defense of our country. It is of utmost importance that we invest in our national security to ensure that we continue to provide the strongest Armed Forces worldwide.” “As we continue to fight a war in Afghanistan, it is crucial that we provide our Military with the tools they need to accomplish our long-term goal of fighting terrorism. I am proud this legislation appropriates the resources needed to meet this purpose. “Additionally, this legislation prohibits funding for transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the U.S. territories. It is important that we keep dangerous terrorists in Guantanamo to ensure the safety of all American citizens.” “Lastly, I am pleased this legislation fully funds the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Programs to help make certain acts of sexual assault are addressed and abolished in our Military. We must not ever allow these violent acts of crime to take place. “This legislation is crucial to our country, and it is my hope the DoD Appropriations will be passed by the Senate and sent to President Obama’s Desk for his signature.” --30--
07.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Beaver, Cimarron, Ellis, Harper, Texas and Woodward counties August 7 & 8. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress.Wednesday, August 7: Woodward Town Hall Meeting 10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. High Plains Technology Center (Seminar Room) 3921 34th Street Beaver Town Hall Meeting 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Beaver County Farm Bureau 812 South Douglas Guymon Town Hall Meeting 4:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. PTCI Room 603 South Main Street Thursday, August 8: Boise City Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. PTCI Room 211 West Main Street Laverne Town Hall Meeting 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Community Center 201 South Broadway Shattuck Town Hall Meeting 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. Chamber of Commerce Building 115 South Main Street --30--
07.17.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed two successive pieces of legislation to delay, for one year, key mandates included in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. “I am pleased the House passed legislation to delay the individual and employer mandates included in Obamacare,” said Lucas. “The Administration finally admitted this law is unworkable when they chose to delay the employer mandate for one year. It is prudent that American families and individuals are treated fairly and given the same relief from the flawed health care law that the Administration gave to businesses when they delayed the employer mandate. “Today the House has postponed onerous provisions for all Americans by passing this legislation. This is just a step in dismantling this law, and it is my hope that Obamacare ultimately will be fully repealed. “In the past, I have voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act three times, and I have also voted over 30 times to defund portions of the law. As the Congressman representing Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District, I will continue to support measures to dismantle Obamacare so we can move forward with providing hard working American families with quality health care.” --30--
06.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas recently promoted Brad Morris, Oklahoma State University (OSU) graduate, to Legislative Assistant in his Washington, D.C. office. Morris previously served as the Staff Assistant for Lucas. “I am very pleased to promote Brad to serve as one of my Legislative Assistants in my office,” said Lucas. “He has already proven to be a tremendous asset to my staff and Oklahoma’s Third District constituents as the Staff Assistant. I know with his educational background and knowledge of Congressional issues, he will be a great addition to my legislative staff. Morris’ legislative portfolio includes budget, tax, education, government operations, small business, labor, arts and humanities, welfare, social security and social issues. “It has been a pleasure working for Congressman Lucas,” said Morris, “and I look forward to serving Third District constituents in my new role as a Legislative Assistant. Prior to working for in Lucas’ office, Morris worked for Oklahoma State University Undergraduate Admissions as a campus tour guide. In the summer of 2011, he interned for Congresswoman Kay Grainger. In May 2012, Morris graduated from OSU with a bachelor’s degree in Political Science. Morris is the son of Dana and Brenda Morris and the grandson of James McKee Jr. and Marie Render. --30--
06.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today praised passage of H.R. 2231, the Offshore Energy and Jobs Act. The legislation passed the United States House of Representatives with a 235 to 186 vote. “I am pleased this legislation passed the House today,” said Lucas. “I have always been a supporter of an all-of-the-above energy approach, and the Offshore Energy and Jobs Act helps us accomplish this goal by creating energy independence and boosting job creation across the nation. “President Obama has used one stall tactic after another to delay offshore drilling, and today we are saying it is time to take advantage of our country’s resources. This legislation increases domestic energy supplies by removing barriers that have blocked offshore energy exploration, and it will require the Administration to move forward with tapping into our natural resources. “Additionally, H.R. 2231 will provide a tremendous boost to the American economy by producing millions of dollars in revenue and potentially creating 1.2 million long-term jobs and 250,000 short-term jobs. The legislation will also decrease energy costs for American families. At a time when our unemployment rate remains high, it is important that we take advantage of opportunities to add jobs and ease the burden on American citizens. “I will continue to work with my colleagues to produce cost saving, pro-economic energy solutions. It is my hope that the Offshore Energy and Jobs Act will be passed in the Senate and sent to President Obama for his signature. Now is the time to begin expanding American-made energy options.” --30--
06.25.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes Rainey Sewell, a Norman, Okla. native, to his Washington D.C. staff. Sewell was recently hired to serve as Lucas’ Staff Assistant where she will tend to basic office duties and assist constituents when they call Lucas’ Congressional office. Additionally, Sewell will organize tours, manage the internship program, and be responsible for taking care of flag requests from Third District constituents. “I am very glad to have Rainey join our team,” said Lucas. “With her past work experience and knowledge of the district, I know she will serve my constituents with great attentiveness and be a tremendous asset to my staff.” Sewell previously served as the Student Body Vice President at the University of Oklahoma, where she graduated in May 2013 with a bachelor’s in communications. Additionally, she interned in Governor Mary Fallin’s office from May 2011 to May 2012. “I am very grateful for the opportunity to work for Congressman Lucas and serve his staff,” said Sewell. “I am excited that I get to continue working with Oklahomans as I serve the constituents who live in the Third District.” Sewell is the daughter of Randy and Kay Sewell, of Norman, Okla. and the granddaughter of Nancy and Gene Sewell, of Oklahoma City, Okla. --30--
06.17.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Logan, Osage, Pawnee and Payne counties July 1 and 2. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, July 1st Pawnee Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Pawnee City Hall 510 Illinois Street Pawhuska Town Hall Meeting 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. Community Center 520 Lynn Avenue Skiatook Town Hall Meeting 3:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. First Baptist Church (West Rogers Campus) 825 West Rogers Boulevard Tuesday, July 2nd Stillwater Town Hall Meeting 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Stillwater Community Center 315 West 8th Avenue Cushing Town Hall Meeting 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Cushing City Hall (Council Chamber) 100 Judy Adams Boulevard Guthrie Town Hall Meeting 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Oklahoma Sports Museum 15 West Oklahoma Avenue --30--
06.14.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Frank Lucas (R-OK3) today made the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 1960, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2014. This is the fifty-second consecutive NDAA, and it will provide necessary authorities and funding for America’s military. “After months of hard work and preparation from the House Armed Services Committee,” said Lucas, “I am pleased the FY2014 NDAA passed the House today and fulfills its primary constitutional responsibility of providing for the common defense of the United States. “H.R. 1960 requires that special attention is given to rapid response teams and structure changes are forced that will help the military better respond to attacks like Benghazi, should a similar attack ever occur again. It is important that our military is always adequately prepared to respond to terrorist attacks. “Additionally, the FY2014 NDAA will address the issue of sexual assault in the military by establishing minimum sentencing guidelines for any service members found guilty of sexual assault. “This legislation also maintains the prohibition against the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo bay to the U.S. or to countries with confirmed cases of transferred detainees returning to terrorism. “I am pleased the NDAA addresses these important issues and accomplishes the goal of strengthening our national security. It is my hope that this legislation will be passed by the Senate and sent to the President’s desk for his signature.” --30--
06.04.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the United States House of Representatives voted for passage of H.R. 2216, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The legislation passed the House today with a 421 to 4 vote. “I am pleased this legislation passed the House today to ensure the U.S. Military has the resources needed to maintain a strong national defense,” said Lucas. “It is crucial that we continue investing in the physical infrastructure of the Department of Defense to ensure our men and women in uniform can continue operating in a functional and productive environment. “Additionally, it is important that we provide the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) with the resources needed to fulfill their duties of taking care of our nation’s veterans. We owe a great deal of gratitude to the brave men and women who have fought on behalf of our country and to secure our freedoms. I am pleased this legislation appropriates adequate funding to the VA to help increase efficiency and minimize the barriers our veterans face in receiving benefits. It is important that we keep true to the promises we made to our veterans when they decided to bravely serve in the U.S. Military. --30--
06.03.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Congressmen Frank Lucas (R-Okla.-3), Tom Cole (R-Okla.-4), James Lankford (R-Okla.-5), Jim Bridenstine (R-Okla.-1) and Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.-2) today praised the decision from the Air Force to invoke Alternate Safe Haven Authorities which would except Tinker Air Force Base civilian personnel from furloughs whose homes were destroyed or declared inhabitable as a result of the recent tornadoes in Oklahoma. "The men and women who have been displaced by the recent storms in Oklahoma deserve our full support as we continue the recovery process and begin to rebuild our communities," said Inhofe. "The Airmen and civilians at Tinker Air Force Base live in and comprise the communities surrounding the base and are among those who have lost homes and possessions as a result of the devastating storms that recently tore through Oklahoma. Today's decision from the Air Force to except the civilian employees from furloughs whose homes were lost or destroyed in the storms is another gesture of the benevolence and compassion our country continues to demonstrate to the people of Oklahoma." Congressman Frank Lucas added, “I am pleased the Air Force has announced they will be invoking Alternate Safe Haven Authorities to exempt Tinker Air Force Base civilians, whose homes have been destroyed by recent storms, from being furloughed. Removing this additional burden is necessary for these civilian employees to rebuild and get back on their feet. I will continue to keep those affected by the devastating tornadoes in my thoughts and prayers as they recover.” “The tragedy inflicted by the tornados is truly heartbreaking, impacting thousands of hardworking Oklahomans,” said Congressman Tom Cole. “As we continue in the recovery process, I am pleased by Tinker’s announcement today that furloughs will except employees directly impacted by the storms. Not only is this the right thing to do, but it also proves that in times of crisis, we don’t turn our backs on Oklahomans in need. The last couple of weeks have been extremely difficult for thousands of families across the state. Recovery will take time, but as Tinker has proven through this announcement, we will work through this tragedy together.” Congressman Lankford added, “I want to express my deepest gratitude to the United States Air Force for instituting an Alternate Safe Haven to exempt Tinker AFB families impacted by the tornadoes from furlough notices. The civilians employees who lost their homes or whose homes were uninhabitable after the tornadoes will now have one less burden as they seek to rebuild their homes and their lives. Our community stands ready to continue to help our friends and neighbors who lost so much from these storms and the devoted civilian employees who still face furloughs late this summer.” “I applaud the Air Force for employing flexibility and common sense in the wake of the tornadoes," said Bridenstine. "If all of the sequestration cuts were applied with rationality, federal expenses could be controlled without jeopardizing truly important programs.” Congressman Mullin continued, “The Air Force delivered great news today for those who serve our men and women in the armed forces, those who sacrifice much on a daily basis for us to live in peace. These employees work side by side with our Airmen—they are our families, our neighbors and our friends. Invoking the Alternate Safe Haven Authorities is critical for these Oklahoma families affected by the recent devastating storms. The recovery will continue for quite some time, but today’s announcement is a great first step to rebuilding. As Oklahomans, we are resilient and we will continue to remain united and work to build back stronger than before.” Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley added, “This is the right thing to do. Despite some facing devastating personal circumstances, our Oklahoma-based civilian employees have shown their resilience time and time again. The least we can do is remove this additional burden.” Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Mark A. Welsh III added, “I couldn’t be more proud of our Airmen and the selfless care and support they’ve shown for each other and their neighbors in the community. We will continue to support those affected by these storms in any way we can.” The Department of Defense plans to furlough civilian employees for 11 days to address budget cuts forced by sequestration. --30--
05.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Congressman Frank Lucas (R-Okla. -3) today praised the decision from the U.S. Air Force to base the first Formal Training Unit (FTU) for the KC-46 air refueling tanker at Altus Air Force Base (AFB) in Altus, Okla. The new training mission will bring eight aircraft to Altus AFB, new military construction, and additional jobs for maintenance and technical support. “Today’s announcement by the Air Force is a welcome piece of good news for Oklahoma," said Inhofe. "It confirms what I have known, what the people of Altus know, and what the Airmen at Altus Air Force base know, there is no better place to train future KC-46A students than Altus AFB. This decision will have a positive impact on Oklahoma and the city of Altus for decades to come. I am proud of the communities of Altus and the surrounding area for doing what Oklahoma does best, take care of our military. I am also proud of our past and present Altus commanders, and our military and civilian personnel that have made Altus AFB a premier location to work, train and live." “I am delighted the Air Force has chosen Altus Air Force Base as the KC-46A Formal Training Unit location,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “I am proud of the men and women at this base who have worked hard to make Altus the best option for the KC-46A FTU. Altus Air Force Base is equipped with exceptional air and ramp space, and is surrounded by a community devoted to their mission. For over 70 years, Altus AFB has played a critical role in providing for the common defense of our great nation, and we are excited to see that mission expand with the announcement of the KC-46A bed down at Altus. Additionally, the KC-46A program will provide an economic benefit to the city of Altus by creating additional jobs. It is always encouraging to see projects like this create economic growth in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District.” Chairman of the Altus Military Affairs Committee Dr. Joe Leverett added, “We are elated that through the Air Force strategic basing process, Altus Air Force Base has been competitively selected as the KC-46A Formal Training Unit location. The Altus Military Affairs Committee and the community stand ready to support the United States Air Force in providing superior training and global reach for our service members. As a committee and community, we have enthusiastically prepared for the opportunity to receive the Next Generation Tanker training mission and demonstrate the assets Southwest Oklahoma offers our airmen. We take great pride as a location that has airspace, ramp space, and a community that loves the United States Air Force. As the Chairman of the Military Affairs Committee, I am grateful for the tremendous support to Altus from Senator Jim Inhofe and his persistent work with the Senate Armed Services Committee, Oklahoma delegation, and the United States Air Force throughout the KC-46A basing process. I would also like to thank the members of the Military Affairs Committee for their work to support our base. I believe that support is one of the key reasons for this decision. “The City of Altus in partnership with the Altus Military Affairs Committee is honored to be a part of the KC-46A Formal Training Unit bed down at Altus Air Force Base," said Altus Mayor David Webb. "Throughout the entire basing process, I have been overwhelmed by the support from Senator Jim Inhofe and his team. As Oklahomans, we are proud to have Senator Inhofe as our senior Senator and greatly appreciate his ability to unite defense related issues across the Oklahoma delegation. As a community we will work meticulously to provide our military partners and the KC-46A team our full support. The Altus community is very proud of their partnership with the base and both appreciate and enjoy the diversity the Air Force brings to Southwest Oklahoma. I look forward to the arrival of the KC-46A team and the opportunity to work with base leadership in such a critical phase for our national defense. On behalf of the citizens of Altus, we are thrilled to have the opportunity to demonstrate our support of the United States Air Force and training the best airmen in the world.” The 179 planned KC-46A aircraft are in the first phase of a 3-phase effort to replace more than 59 KC-10s and the Air Force’s primary refueling aircraft for over 50 years, 400 KC-135s. This first phase of tanker recapitalization will complete deliveries in 2028. With more refueling capacity and enhanced capabilities, improved efficiency and increased capabilities for cargo and aeromedical evacuation, the KC-46A will provide aerial refueling support to the Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps, as well as allied nation coalition force aircraft. Altus AFB was selected as the prime candidate for the FTU based on key Air Force criteria to include exiting facilities, hangers, runway, and parking apron, as well as ability to provide ground and flight training for all future KC-46A students. Altus AFB should begin receiving KC-46s in Fiscal Year 2016 and begin student training the same year. The KC-135 and C-17 training and operations will also continue at Altus AFB with no change in throughput. --30--
05.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives by voting in favor of H.R. 45, which fully repeals President Obama’s Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The legislation passed the United States House of Representatives today with a 229 to 195 vote. “Today, I voted for the third time to fully repeal Obamacare,” said Lucas. “I have voted over 30 times to defund the flawed law, and I will continue to vote for measures that will dismantle the Affordable Care Act. My constituents in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District and many other Americans have unanimously voiced their opposition to Obamacare. The law clearly isn’t working. Families have already seen a major increase in health care premiums, and the additional taxes and mandates continue to place an extra layer of burden on hard-working Americans. “Many Oklahomans are concerned about the negative effects that will occur when the law is fully implemented in January 2014. I too share these concerns. As the Congressman representing the Third District, I promise I will continue working to repeal and replace Obamacare with real health care reforms that will allow families to choose a health care plan that best fits their needs. Government run health care is the last thing Americans need.” --30--
05.15.2013	Photo Attached- CAPTION: Congressman Frank Lucas congratulates Meredith Garrett on her acceptance of appointment at the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. (Pictured: Meredith Garrett (LEFT), Congressman Frank Lucas (RIGHT) Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Meredith Garrett, Yukon, Okla. native, to his district office Monday to congratulate her on her acceptance of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. “I am very proud of Meredith and congratulate her on her acceptance to the Air Force Academy,” said Lucas. “I know this will be a tremendous experience for her, and I greatly appreciate her willingness to serve our country. I wish Meredith the best of luck as she begins classes at the Academy this year.” Garrett is currently a student at Yukon High School. She plans on becoming a military doctor. She is the daughter of Mark and Heather Garrett of Yukon, Okla. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
05.15.2013	Photo Attached - CAPTION: Congressman Frank Lucas congratulates Nathaniel Lauvetz on his acceptance of appointment at the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. (Pictured: Nathaniel Lauvetz (LEFT), Congressman Frank Lucas (RIGHT) Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Nathaniel Lauvetz, Stillwater, Okla. native, to his district office Monday to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. “I am very proud of Nathaniel and congratulate him on his acceptance to the Air Force Academy,” said Lucas. “I know this will be a tremendous experience for him, and I greatly appreciate his willingness to serve our country. I wish Nathaniel the best of luck as he begins classes at the Academy this year.” Lauvetz currently attends Stillwater High School. He is a golfer and played in the South Central Junior PGA’s Players Tour. He is the son of Robert and Julie Lauvetz of Stillwater, Okla. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
05.15.2013	Photo Attached - CAPTION: Congressman Frank Lucas congratulates Brian Kriner on his acceptance of appointment at the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. (Pictured: Brian Kriner (LEFT), Congressman Frank Lucas (RIGHT) Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Brian Kriner, Stillwater, Okla. native, to his district office Monday to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. “I am very proud of Brian and congratulate him on his acceptance to the Air Force Academy,” said Lucas. “I know this will be a tremendous experience for him, and I greatly appreciate his willingness to serve our country. I wish Brian the best of luck as he begins classes at the Academy this year.” Kriner currently attends Stillwater High School. He is the son of Kevin and Mary Kriner of Stillwater, Okla. His father, Kevin, graduated from the Air Force Academy in 1983 and is a retired Colonel. Kriner has taken flying lessons and flew his first solo flight in 2012. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
05.15.2013	Photo Attached- CAPTION: Congressman Frank Lucas congratulates Gentry Goodner on her acceptance of appointment at the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. (Pictured: Gentry Goodner (LEFT), Congressman Frank Lucas (RIGHT) Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Gentry Goodner, Yukon, Okla. native, to his district office Monday to congratulate her on her acceptance of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. “I am very proud of Gentry and congratulate her on her acceptance to the Air Force Academy,” said Lucas. “I know this will be a tremendous experience for her, and I greatly appreciate her willingness to serve our country. I wish Gentry the best of luck as she begins classes at the Academy this year.” Goodner is currently a student at Southwest Covenant School in Yukon. She is interested in filmmaking and she wrote, produced and directed a film that was honored at the local young filmmakers screening. Both of her grandfathers served in the Army. She is the daughter of Mickey and Gale Goodner of Yukon, Okla. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
05.15.2013	Photo Attached - CAPTION: Congressman Frank Lucas congratulates Robert Step on his acceptance of appointment at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. (Pictured: Robert Step (LEFT), Congressman Frank Lucas (RIGHT) Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Robert Step, Stillwater, Okla. native, to his district office Monday to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. “I am very proud of Robert and congratulate him on his acceptance to the Naval Academy,” said Lucas. “I know this will be a tremendous experience for him, and I greatly appreciate his willingness to serve our country. I wish Robert the best of luck as he begins classes at the Academy this year.” Step graduated from Stillwater High School in 2012. His goal is to be a Navy SEAL, and he once sailed around the Abaco Islands in the Bahamas with the Boy Scouts. He is the son of Douglas and Cheryl Step. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
05.15.2013	Photo Attached - CAPTION: Congressman Frank Lucas congratulates Jake Hitchings on his acceptance of appointment at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. (Pictured: Jake Hitchings (LEFT), Congressman Frank Lucas (RIGHT) Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Jake Hitchings, Boise City, Okla. native, to his district office Monday to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD. “I am very proud of Jake and congratulate him on his acceptance to the Naval Academy,” said Lucas. “I know this will be a tremendous experience for him, and I greatly appreciate his willingness to serve our country. I wish Jake the best of luck as he begins classes at the Academy this year.” Hitchings graduated from Keyes High School in May of 2012. He recently graduated from the Naval Academy Prep School in Newport, RI. In the future, Jake would like to earn an athletic training degree and coach track. He is the son of Todd and Sherri Hitchings. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
05.15.2013	Photo Attached: Congressman Frank Lucas congratulates Macy Miller on her acceptance of appointment at the United States Military Academy in West Point. (Pictured: Macy Miller (LEFT), Congressman Frank Lucas (RIGHT) Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Macy Miller, Piedmont, Okla. native, to his district office Monday to congratulate her on her acceptance of appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. “I am very proud of Macy and congratulate her on her acceptance to the Military Academy,” said Lucas. “I know this will be a tremendous experience for her, and I greatly appreciate her willingness to serve our country. I wish Macy the best of luck as she begins classes at the Academy this year.” Miller is currently a student at Casady School in Oklahoma City, Okla. She is an orange belt in karate, runs cross country and performs in musicals. She was accepted to four different Academies, however she chose the Military Academy. She is the daughter of Jonathan and LaWanda Miller. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
05.15.2013	Photo Attached- CAPTION: Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes Colby Bodkin to his district office. Colby Bodkin (LEFT), Congressman Frank Lucas (RIGHT) Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Colby Bodkin, Cashion, Okla. native, to his district office on Monday to thank him for applying to the United States Service Academies. “It was a pleasure discussing the Academies with Colby in my district office,” said Lucas. “I greatly appreciate his willingness to serve our country through our nation’s Academies. I am very proud of him and wish him the best of luck in the future.” Bodkin attends the Oklahoma School of Science and Mathematics, and he is interested in aeronautical engineering, aerospace engineering and flight. He is currently working to get his pilot’s license. Bodkin is the son of Lyndall and Karen Bodkin, of Cashion, Okla. Four of our nation’s five Service Academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
05.15.2013	Photo Attached - CAPTION: Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes Austin Garland to his district office. Colby Bodkin (LEFT), Congressman Frank Lucas (RIGHT) Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomed Austin Garland, Altus, Okla. native, to his district office on Monday to thank him for applying to the United States Service Academies. “It was a pleasure discussing the Academies with Austin in my district office,” said Lucas. “I greatly appreciate his willingness to serve our country through our nation’s Academies. I am very proud of him and wish him the best of luck in the future.” Garland is currently a student at Altus High School. He is a certified lifeguard and a black belt in Tae Kwan Do. Garland is the son of Douglas and Jaqulyne Garland of Altus, Okla. Four of our nation’s five Service Academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
05.13.2013	Photo Caption: Congressman Lucas hosts a Service Academy reception for Third District students who applied to serve in the United States Service Academies. (Pictured: Left to Right - Jake Hitchings, Boise City, OK; Austin Garland, Altus, OK; Macy Miller, Piedmont, OK; Congressman Frank Lucas; Nathaniel Lauvetz, Stillwater, OK; Brian Kriner, Stillwater, OK; Robert Step, Stillwater, OK; Gentry Goodner, Yukon, OK.) YUKON – Congressman Frank Lucas today hosted a Service Academy reception, in his Yukon, Okla. District office, for Oklahoma’s Third District students who applied to serve in the United States Service Academies. “It was an honor to have these extraordinary students come visit me in my District office today,” said Lucas. “Their willingness to serve our country through the Service Academies is a true testament to the exceptional students we have in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. Our military academies present a tremendous opportunity for young men and women to serve our country, while also receiving a top-notch education. I am pleased these students came to the reception, and I wish them all the best of luck in their future endeavors.” At today’s reception, Lucas visited with the students about the Academies and discussed the importance and dedication of serving in the armed forces. This year, 15 Third District students applied to our nation’s Academies, and seven of them were accepted to serve. The students accepted will begin classes in the fall and are committing to at least four years at the Academy and five years with the Service. Four of our five Service Academies require a Congressional nomination, including the U.S. Military Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Naval Academy. The fifth, the Coast Guard Academy, doesn’t require a Congressional nomination. Third District students interested in applying for the 2014 Service Academies should contact Allison Litterell in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958, or visit the web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
05.09.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today hailed passage of H.R. 807, the Full Faith and Credit Act. This legislation permanently removes the threat of default on the United States Treasury debt, and it passed the House today with a 221 to 207 vote. Lucas made the following comments after passage: “I am pleased the Full Faith and Credit Act passed the House today to help create fiscal accountability in Washington,” said Lucas. “With our current national debt standing at $16 trillion, it is important that we implement measures to prevent our country from defaulting on the debts held by the federal government and the public. I am encouraged this legislation passed to help achieve this goal. “Daily, Americans are working tirelessly to make sure their bills are paid, and it is time for the federal government to follow their lead and do the same. It is critical that we practice fiscal responsibility in our country to help solve the national debt crisis. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House to provide commonsense ways to help strengthen our country’s financial future.” --30--
05.08.2013	PHOTO CAPTION (Photo Attached): “After Long Day’s Ride” By: Megan Garnett Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today announced Megan Garnett, Alva, Okla. native, as the Third District winner of the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. Her artwork is titled ‘After a Long Day’s Ride,’ and it was drawn with pencil. “Megan’s artwork is a great example of the exceptional talent students in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District can produce,” said Lucas. “I know this is only one of the many future works of art by Megan that will impress and inspire audiences for years to come. I am proud her artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol corridor for thousands of visitors who will visit this year. She is extremely talented and I urge her to continue pursuing her interest in art. I wish her the best of luck in her future endeavors.” Garnett’s artwork will be displayed in the corridor tunnel leading to the U.S. Capitol for one year, along with winning entries from other Congressional districts. In addition to the national recognition of her work, Garnett will receive free airfare for two to participate in the Congressional Art Competition’s ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington this summer. Garnett is a Senior at Alva High School, and she is the daughter of Jerry and Debbie Garnett of Alva, Okla. In addition to Garnett’s artwork, 27 other entries from the Third District were submitted for this year’s contest. To view Garnett’s winning piece and the other entries, please visit https://lucas.house.gov/art-competition-entries. --30--
04.26.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) and Congressman Frank Lucas (R-OK-3) today introduced in their respective chambers the Ammunition Management for More Obtainability (AMMO) Act of 2013. The legislation would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a report on the purchasing of ammunition by federal agencies, except the Department of Defense, and its affect on the supply of ammunition available to the public. The AMMO Act would restrict agencies from obtaining additional ammunition for a six-month period if current agency stockpiles are higher than its monthly averages prior to the Obama Administration. "President Obama has been adamant about curbing law-abiding Americans’ access and opportunities to exercise their Second Amendment rights," said Inhofe. "One way the Obama Administration is able to do this is by limiting what’s available in the market with federal agencies purchasing unnecessary stockpiles of ammunition. As the public learned in a House committee hearing this week, the Department of Homeland Security has two years worth of ammo on hand and allots nearly 1,000 more rounds of ammunition for DHS officers than is used on average by our Army officers. The AMMO Act of 2013 will enforce transparency and accountability of federal agencies’ ammunition supply while also protecting law-abiding citizens access to these resources.” “After hearing from my constituents about the shortage of ammunition in Oklahoma and the Department of Homeland Security’s profligate purchases of ammunition,” said Lucas. “We have introduced the AMMO Act of 2013 to curtail these purchases so Americans can exercise their Second Amendment rights without being encumbered by the federal government. I was surprised to find out the DHS has the right to buy up to 750 million rounds of ammunition over the next five years, while it already has two years worth of ammo already. This is an issue that must be addressed, and I am pleased this legislation provides us the opportunity to do so.” --30--
04.18.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement on passage of H.R. 624, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA). The bill passed the House today with a vote of 288 to 127. “I am pleased this legislation passed the House today,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “Daily, foreign countries are hacking into American companies’ computer systems and stealing trade secrets and billions of dollars worth of intellectual property. When hackers break into our systems and steal our property, they also take many jobs along with it. “I believe this legislation is necessary to combat our cyber security issues and protect jobs in our country. This bill will enable businesses to work with the federal government, on a voluntary basis, to share cyber threat information to help the private sector better protect themselves from cyber attacks. Additionally, the bill accomplishes these goals without infringing on American citizens’ privacy and civil liberties. “I am pleased leaders in the House are working to protect our national security and U.S. jobs. It is my hope this legislation will be passed in the Senate and sent to the President’s desk for his signature.” --30--
04.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Canadian, Creek and Lincoln counties April 29 and 30. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, April 29: Chandler Town Hall Meeting 9:30 a.m. -10:30 a.m. Chandler Public Library 1021 Manvel Avenue Stroud Town Hall Meeting 11:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Heritage Hall, Old Elementary School Building 501 North 1st Avenue Bristow Town Hall Meeting 2:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Bristow Public Library, Large Conference Room 111 West 7th Street Sapulpa Town Hall Meeting 3:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Collins Building, 2nd Floor Ballroom 317 East Lee Tuesday, April 30: Piedmont Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. George Fina Municipal Building 314 Edmond Road NorthwestYukon/Mustang Town Hall Meeting 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Canadian Valley Technology Center, Cowan Campus 1701 South Czech Hall RoadEl Reno Town Hall Meeting 2:30 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Redlands Community College, Arts & Sciences Building, Room A-S 120 1300 South Country Club Road --30--
04.15.2013	Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement on Tax Day and the need for commonsense tax reform in America: “Today, many of my constituents in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District will file their taxes and once again hand over money to the federal government. I realize the need for real tax reform remains, and I am committed to working in the House to help achieve this. I have long been a supporter of tax legislation that would terminate our current tax code and provide a new federal tax system that is simple and fair. The legislation helps accomplish this by applying a low tax rate to all Americans and eliminating the bias against savings and investment. Additionally, this legislation provides parameters to promote economic growth and job creation. “Unfortunately, President Obama’s approach does not meet the same goals. He has recently produced a budget that saddles American’s with more taxes, and his flawed health care law continues to have negative effects on taxpayers. At a time when Americans are struggling to make ends meet, the last thing they need is an extra layer of tax burdens. “As a Congressman representing the Third District, I can assure my constituents I will continue to work with other leaders in Congress to achieve the tax reform needed to help make Tax Day less of a burden for Americans and generations to come.” --30--
04.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after President Obama released his budget. “President Obama submitted his budget plan today. Not only was it submitted two months late, but it also includes more tax hikes on hard working Americans and fails to create balance. This is the last thing American’s need at a time when unemployment rates remain high and we face a national debt over $16.7 trillion. Adding an extra layer of tax burdens on hard working Americans will not create economic prosperity. The president needs to realize our country has a spending problem, and only commonsense spending cuts will help solve our nation’s debt disaster. “Recently, House Republicans passed a budget that balances the federal government’s checkbook by reducing the deficit $4.6 trillion over the next 10 years. This is a plan that will help restore financial stability and create jobs in our country. The president should follow our lead and make similar spending cuts to help get our country on the right path. I will continue to work with leaders of Congress to enact real spending reforms that will allow our country to thrive – Americans can’t wait much longer for a budget that actually balances.” --30--
03.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. Con. Res. 25, The Path to Prosperity: A Responsible, Balanced Budget. The budget was approved in the House today with a 221 to 207 vote. “I am pleased the House passed the budget today,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “Americans are continually balancing their checkbooks and finding ways to live within their means, and it is encouraging we have passed a budget that will do the same. “On the current path, the federal government would spend another $8.2 trillion in the next 10 years. Thankfully, our budget provides a $4.6 trillion reduction in the national debt and balances the budget over the same timeframe. This plan achieved all of these goals without any tax increases. It is obvious our country has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. I am glad this budget achieves savings by implementing common-sense spending cuts, while in-turn not taking money out of American taxpayers’ pockets. “It is encouraging to see lawmakers working together to come up with responsible solutions to solving our nation’s debt crises. I believe this is the best plan to get our country back on the right track. It is my hope that the House budget will be passed by the Senate and sent to the President’s desk for his signature.” --30--
02.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement on sequestration, which is set to take effect March 1. “I am disappointed President Obama and leaders in the Senate have yet to come up with a solution to replace the sequester,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “The House has already acted twice to replace sequestration with commonsense spending cuts that do not unfairly target the U.S. Department of Defense. While our country is still fighting a war in Afghanistan, it is imperative that we prevent harmful cuts to national defense. “In the Third District we have Altus and Vance Air Force Bases, which both play a crucial role in protecting the United States and keeping jobs in Oklahoma. Our country depends on these military installments to protect each and every American citizen, and we must do everything possible to prevent these automatic cuts from taking place. “It has been nearly four years since the Senate has produced a budget. I believe at this time when we are facing a national deficit over $16.6 trillion, it is time for the President and the Senate to follow our lead in the House and produce a budget with rational spending cuts that will replace these harmful automatic spending cuts.” --30--
02.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-OK) today issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s fourth State of the Union address. “Tonight President Obama laid out his agenda for his second term in office and once again focused his State of the Union address on our nation’s ailing economy,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “The President has addressed the same concerns in past speeches; however, he has failed to put a plan in motion that gets our country moving in the right direction. I hope this time he is serious about pursuing a plan to get our economy back on solid ground. “In order to improve the economy, President Obama must realize the federal government has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. The president has added $5.9 trillion to the national debt since he took office in 2009. The only way to get a grip on this tremendous debt problem is to make significant spending cuts. Raising taxes on hard-working American families is not the solution to tackling our nation’s $16.5 trillion deficit. “Additionally, I was disappointed President Obama failed to present a plan to prevent sequestration from going into effect in the coming months. While we are still fighting a war in Afghanistan, our country cannot allow harmful spending cuts to our national defense. In Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District, we have Altus and Vance Air Force Bases, which both play a vital role in protecting the United States. Our country depends on these military installments and a strong national defense to protect each and every American citizen. We must do everything possible to prevent automatic cuts to our military from occurring. In the House, we have acted twice to pass legislation to replace the sequester with common-sense spending cuts, and it’s my hope the president will follow our lead to prevent defense cuts from occurring. “Lastly, the president mentioned the need to create jobs in our country. At a time when our national unemployment is close to 8 percent, I agree work needs to be done to spur job creation in America. While Oklahoma has fared better than the rest of the nation, too many Americans are still struggling to find jobs. In order to create jobs in our country, we must first build a healthy economy. As a leader of Congress, I remain willing and ready to work with the president and other leaders of Congress to find commonsense ways to help build an American economy that is built to last. The American people depend on it.” --30--
02.06.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Greer, Harmon, Jackson, Kiowa and Washita counties February 20-21. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Wednesday, February 20: Cordell Town Hall Meeting 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Police Department, Precinct Room 105 West Main Street Mangum Town Hall 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Welcome Center 119 East Jefferson Hobart Town Hall Meeting 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Western Technology Center, Seminar Room 1000 South Bailey Thursday, February 21: Altus Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Western Oklahoma State College, Herschel Crow Auditorium 2801 North Main Street Hollis Town Hall Meeting 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. Civic Center 208 West Jones Street --30--
02.05.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes New Braunfels, Texas native Scott Ferguson to his Washington, D.C. staff to serve as his new Legislative Assistant. Ferguson’s legislative portfolio will include budget, tax, education, government operations, small business, labor, arts and humanities, welfare, social security and social issues. “It is a pleasure to welcome Scott to my staff,” said Lucas. “With his past work experience and education, I know he will be a great addition to my legislative staff and the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District.” Ferguson previously worked as a staff assistant for the House Committee on Veteran’s Affairs. In the fall of 2011, he interned for the House Committee on Agriculture, on which Lucas serves as Chairman. In December 2011, Ferguson graduated from Texas A&M University with a Bachelor’s degree in Agricultural Economics. “I am very excited to be reunited with 'Team Lucas',” said Ferguson. “I had a wonderful experience with the House Agriculture Committee and am now eager to work directly for the Congressman and the people of Oklahoma's Third Congressional District.” Ferguson is the son of Grace and Jesse Ferguson of New Braunfels, Texas and the grandson of Linda Ferguson of Turkey, Texas. --30--
01.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today released the following statement after he joined his colleagues in the United States House of Representatives in voting for passage of H.R. 325, the No Budget, No Pay Act. “I am pleased the House passed H.R. 325, the No Budget, No Pay Act today,” said Lucas. “We have consistently worked in the House to come up with commonsense solutions to reduce government spending. In the past two years, we have passed two budgets in the House, and now it is time for leaders in the Senate to follow our lead and do the same. The Senate has failed to produce a budget in over 1,300 days, and I am proud this legislation forces them to pass a budget and set forth a plan to help tackle our nation’s debt disaster. “We simply cannot continue down this path of destructive spending and borrowing. I can assure my constituents in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District that I will continue to work as a leader of Congress to come up with a plan to help balance the budget and get us back on the track of fiscal responsibility.” --30--
01.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after President Obama announced his proposals on gun control. “President Obama’s announcement that his Administration will be using executive actions to implement additional gun control is deeply troubling to me. Bypassing Congress to implement stricter gun laws is not the solution to preventing violence in our country. In the wake of recent tragedies, I believe it is important for leaders of our country to take a step back and calmly evaluate all factors, including mental health factors, contributing to recent tragedies. I can assure my constituents in the Third District I will fight against the president’s gun control agenda and oppose any attempt to instate new laws infringing on citizen’s Second Amendment rights.”
01.02.2013	Click HERE to listen to Congressman Lucas’ statement provided below: WASHINGTON – Congressman Frank Lucas today issued the following statement on passage of H.R. 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act. “I am pleased the House passed H.R. 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act on Tuesday, which provides permanent tax relief for families, farmers, and small businesses and prevents an enormous tax increase on all Americans. Specifically, this bill locks in place current tax rates for middle class families, provides a permanent patch for the alternative minimum tax (AMT), and holds down the death tax for farmers and ranchers. It postpones the sequestration, which would have caused harmful cuts to our national defense during a time when we are still fighting a war in Afghanistan. Further, this bill provides a one year extension of the 2008 farm bill, which gives agricultural producers certainty and allows the Agriculture Committees in Congress to continue working on a five-year comprehensive farm bill. “This legislation is only one step in the process of solving Washington’s spending problem. Now it’s time for the President to work with Congress to address our $16 trillion dollar debt and find responsible, commonsense ways to cut spending and grow our economy. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House of Representatives in this effort and protect hard-working American taxpayers.” --30--
11.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas presented Will Givens, an Arnett, Okla. native, with the General Billy Mitchell Award on Monday. Givens was presented the award for completing Phase 2 of the CAP Cadet Program. “I am honored to present Will with the General Billy Mitchell Award,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “His hard-work and dedication is a true testament to the incredible young people serving in the military. Will has demonstrated a high level of maturity and responsibility, and I am very proud of his accomplishments. I wish him the best of luck in his future endeavors.” To earn the Mitchell award, Givens had to pass comprehensive leadership and aerospace exams. He also had to pass a rigorous physical fitness test, and he completed an encampment. Additionally, to move into cadet officer ranks, Givens had to exhibit very mature behavior, to be highly responsible and demonstrate leadership skills before he could take his exams. The U.S. Air Force highly regards cadets’ membership in Civil Air Patrol. Cadets who receive the award are eligible for advanced placement to the grade of E-3 (Airman First Class) should they enter the Air Force. They are also eligible for advanced credit in the Air Force Reserve Officers’ Training Course, for various CAP scholarships, and for CAP special activity opportunities. Givens is a student at the Oklahoma School of Science and Math and he is the son of Ruth Ann and Weston Givens of Arnett, Okla. --30--
09.25.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas presented retired Maj. John Mullins, a Mountain Park, Okla. native, with a Silver Star award on Monday in Snyder, Okla. for his brave military actions against American enemies in the Vietnam War. A Silver Star award is presented when a person serves in any capacity with the U.S. Army and is cited for gallantry in action against an enemy of the United States. “It was a great honor to present Maj. Mullins with the Silver Star award today,” said Lucas. “Mullins has a remarkable story and I am extremely grateful to him for serving our country so courageously in the Vietnam War. His gallant action in the War was very brave and his actions are a true testament to the veterans who have put their own lives in harm’s way to protect this country.” Mullins was assigned to Special Forces Detachment B-53, 5th Special Forces group (Airborne) at Camp Long Thanh in the Republic of South Vietnam During the period of October 1968 to October 1969. His mission was to recruit North Vietnamese soldiers who had been captured, turn them, give them agent training, and insert them deep into enemy-held areas in Laos, Cambodia, and North Vietnam. On May 26, 1969, Mullins and his assistant launch officer, Sgt. 1st Class Anthony Altano, were making insertions in Laos. They made two insertions by helicopter successfully; however, on the third insertion they came under heavy fire just after their agent was put on the ground. Mullins managed to get the agent back in the helicopter without injury; however Altano and the Vietnamese door gunner were injured. Mullins then manned the door gun and engaged the enemies, hitting several and causing the other enemies to seek cover. After their chase ship landed, Mullins managed to get Altano and the Vietnamese crew on board while still receiving fire. They managed to get airborne and Mullins tended to the wounded on the way back to their launch site in South Vietnam until the medics took over. After Altano returned to Camp Long Thanh from the hospital, he told Mullins he was going to recommend him for the Silver Star. Mullins continued his military career, retiring with the rank of Maj. in 1981. Twenty-eight years later he made contact with his old commander, Lt. Col. Mark Ponzillo, and Ponzillo asked Mullins if he had ever received the Silver Star. Mullins told him he hadn’t received the award and Ponzillo prodded him to reopen the matter. So, after 43 years, Mullins received his long overdue Silver Star for gallantry in action. This is Mullins second Silver Star. The first was awarded in 1966, also for actions in the Vietnam War. --30-
09.21.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today praised passage of H.R. 3409, the Stop the War on Coal Act. This legislative package consists of a series of bills that will reign in EPA regulations that are crippling the U.S. coal industry and costing our country thousands of jobs. The bill passed the house today with a 233 to 175 vote. “I am pleased the Stop the War on Coal Act passed the House today,” said Lucas. “President Obama has claimed his administration has an “all-of-the-above” energy policy, however the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) burdensome regulations on the coal industry have suggested otherwise. “The coal industry plays a vital role in Oklahoma, producing a large portion of electricity to the state. The demise of this important energy resource would cause Oklahomans’ electricity bills to skyrocket, and I am glad this bill will help pull back environmental regulations to help prevent this from occurring. “Additionally, the coal industry is responsible for over 550,000 U.S. jobs, and more than 130,000 Americans are directly employed in coal mining across the country. Over the past year, thousands of these jobs have been compromised because of EPA’s overreaching regulations on carbon based products. With the U.S. unemployment rate remaining above 8 percent, we must do everything possible to preserve these jobs in the coal industry. “H.R. 3409 puts us on the right path to controlling EPA regulations on carbon based products, while in-turn preserving our domestic energy supply and keeping Americans employed. It is my hope that this legislation will be sent to the Senate for passage and signed into law by President Obama.” --30--
08.01.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today applauded passage of H.R. 8, the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act. This legislation provides a one-year extension of existing tax rates, preventing a tax hike on January 1, 2013. It passed the U.S. House of Representatives today with a 256 to 171 vote. “I am relieved the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act passed the House today,” said Lucas. “During this time of economic downturn, the last thing American families and small businesses need is a tax hike. This legislation will prevent a tax increase from occurring at the beginning of next year by providing a one-year extension of existing tax rates. “The president has already called for higher taxes that could eliminate more than 700,000 jobs. This is the opposite direction we need to take when the U.S. unemployment rate remains above 8 percent. I am glad this legislation will prevent these job killing tax hikes from taking place. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House to craft commonsense tax reforms that will make the tax system simpler and fairer for American families and small businesses.” --30--
07.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in voting for passage of H.R. 6079, the Repeal of Obamacare Act. This legislation repeals the Patient Protection Affordable Care Act of 2010, and it was passed in the House today with a 244 to 185 vote. “I am pleased this legislation to repeal the president’s health care law passed the House today,” said Lucas. “This vote reassures my constituents in the Third District of Oklahoma that we remain committed to real health care reform and we will not stand for the president’s flawed law. “Americans have spoken loud and clear in opposition to Obamacare, which drives up health care costs. I will continue to work with leaders of Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare with commonsense reforms that will lower the cost of health care, and allow patients the right to choose a plan that best fits their needs.” --30--
06.28.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today voted in favor of a resolution that will hold Eric Holder, the United States Department of Justice Attorney General, in contempt of Congress for his failure to comply with subpoenas issued by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. The Resolution passed the House today with a 255 to 67 vote. “Because of Attorney General Eric Holder’s actions, it was necessary for the House to pass this resolution to hold him in contempt of Congress,” said Lucas. “It is important that the truth is revealed in the ongoing investigation of the failed "Fast and Furious" operation, and it is my hope the Attorney General will come forward with the relevant information being requested by Chairman Issa and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform." --30--
06.28.2012	Washington D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today made the following statement after the Supreme Court of the United States reached the decision to uphold President Obama’s Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, commonly referred to as ObamaCare. “I am disappointed by the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the president’s health care law,” said Lucas. “Americans have spoken loudly in opposition to this unworkable law, and it is discouraging the court has found it constitutional. Families should have the freedom to make their own health care decisions, and ObamaCare takes that freedom away, while in-turn costing our nation trillions of dollars without addressing our health care problems. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House of Representatives to fully repeal the law and enact reforms to our nation’s health care system that protect Americans’ access to health care. We need to refocus our efforts to make efficient and cost effective changes to the system, while also ensuring health care treatments are never rationed by government officials.” --30--
06.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today welcomed Cleveland, Okla. native, Jessica Reeves to his Washington, D.C. office to recognize her as the 2012 Congressional Art Competition winner from Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. “It is an honor to welcome Jessica to Washington to name her as this year’s Congressional Art Competition winner from the Third District,” said Lucas. “This art contest gives students like Jessica the opportunity to display their artwork to thousands of visitors who visit the capitol each year, and her painting reflects what talented students we have in Oklahoma. I encourage her to continue pursuing her interest in art and wish her the best of luck in the future.” Reeves recently finished the 7th grade at Cleveland Middle School. Her oil painting entitled, “Splash of Color” was inspired by the picture of a morph into the future. Points of interest are the abstract lines and multi colors, which represents peacock feathers with the spots and outlines of the spots. Reeves’ painting will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year. Reeves is the daughter of Dan and Holly Reeves of Cleveland, Okla. For more information, or to learn how to participate in next year’s Congressional Art Competition, please visit Congressman Lucas’ Web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition. --30--
06.14.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas recently welcomed Pond Creek, Okla. native, Tucker Van Dyke, to his district office to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. “I congratulate Tucker on his acceptance to the United States Military Academy,” said Lucas. “This is a great opportunity for him, and his hard work and dedication is a true reflection of the outstanding students we have in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. I appreciate his willingness to serve our country, and I wish him the best of luck in the future.” Van Dyke graduated from Pond Creek- Hunter High School in May 2012. He will be a member of the West Point class of 2016 and will begin classes there in the fall of this year. He is the son of Robert and Tianda Van Dyke of Pond Creek. His father was in the Air National Guard and Army Reserves. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
06.14.2012	Washington D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas recently welcomed Stillwater, Okla. native, Robert Step to his district office to thank him for applying to the United States Naval Academy. “It was great visiting with Robert in my district office” said Lucas. “His willingness to serve our country is a true testament to the hard-working, dedicated students in the Third District of Oklahoma. I wish him the best of luck in his future endeavors.” Step graduated from Stillwater High School in May 2012. He is the son of Douglas and Cheryl Step of Stillwater, Okla. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ Web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
06.14.2012	Washington D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas recently welcomed Meeker, Okla. native, David Smith to his district office to thank him for applying to the United States Air Force Academy. “It was great visiting with David in my district office,” said Lucas. “His willingness to serve our country is a true testament to the hard-working, dedicated students in the Third District of Oklahoma. I wish him the best of luck in his future endeavors.” Smith graduated from Meeker High School in May 2011. He is currently attending East Central University in Ada Okla. He is the son of Shawn and Rebekah Smith of Meeker, Okla. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ Web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
06.14.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas recently welcomed Boise City, Okla. native, Jake Hitchings, to his district office to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Naval Academy Prep School in Newport, RI. “I congratulate Jake on his acceptance to the United States Naval Academy Prep School,” said Lucas. “This is a great opportunity for him, and his hard work and dedication is a true reflection of the outstanding students we have in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. I appreciate his willingness to serve our country, and I wish him the best of luck in the future.” Hitchings graduated from Keyes High School in May 2012. He will be a member of the Naval Academy Prep School class of 2013 and will begin classes there in the fall of this year. After completion of the 10-month program, he will go on to the US Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. He is the son of Todd and Sherri Hitchings of Boise City. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
06.14.2012	Washington D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas recently welcomed Jennings, Okla. native, Abby Donajkowski to his district office to thank her for applying to the United States Merchant Marines Academy. “It was great visiting with Abby in my district office,” said Lucas. “Her willingness to serve our country is a true testament to the hard-working, dedicated students in the Third District of Oklahoma. I wish her the best of luck in her future endeavors.” Donajkowski graduated from home school in May 2012. She is the daughter of Dominic and Stephanie Donajkowski of Jennings. Her father was in the Army for four years and in the reserves for 22 years. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ Web site at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
06.14.2012	Washington D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas recently welcomed El Reno, Okla. native, Aaron Detamore to his district office to thank him for applying to the United States Military Academy at West Point. “It was great visiting with Aaron in my district office,” said Lucas. “His willingness to serve our country is a true testament to the hard-working, dedicated students in the Third District of Oklahoma. I wish him the best of luck in his future endeavors.” Detamore Graduated from El Reno High School in May 2012. He is the son of Brien and Brenda Detamore of El Reno and his father was commissioned as an Army officer for 10 years. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
06.14.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas recently welcomed Enid, Okla. native, Dakota Bottomlee, to his district office to congratulate him on his acceptance of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. “I congratulate Dakota on his acceptance to the United States Air Force Academy,” said Lucas. “This is a great opportunity for him, and his hard work and dedication is a true reflection of the outstanding students we have in Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. I appreciate his willingness to serve our country, and I wish him the best of luck in the future.” Bottomlee graduated from Liberty Academy Home School in May 2012. He will be a member of the Air Force class of 2016 and will begin classes there in the fall of this year. He is the son of James and Rebecca Bottomlee of Enid. His father is a Cadet Squadron Commander in the Civil Air Patrol. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. --30--
05.15.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes Brad Morris, an Oklahoma State University graduate to his Washington, D.C. staff. Morris, a Northlake, Texas native, was recently hired to serve as Lucas’ staff assistant where he will tend to the basic office duties and assist constituents when they call Lucas’ Washington office. Additionally, Morris will organize tours and manage the internship program. “It is a pleasure to welcome Brad to my staff,” said Lucas. “With his past work experience and education in political science at OSU, I know he will be a tremendous asset to my staff and the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District.” Morris previously worked for Oklahoma State University Undergraduate Admissions as a campus tour guide. In the summer of 2011, he interned for Congresswoman Kay Grainger where he gained experience in constituent services. In May 2012, Morris graduated from Oklahoma State University with a Bachelor’s degree in Political Science. “I am excited to be working for Congressman Lucas,” said Morris. “I am very thankful for this opportunity to serve the people of the third district.” Morris is the son of Dana and Brenda Morris and the grandson of James McKee Jr. and Marie Render. --30--
05.07.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes Allison Litterell, Elk City, Okla. native to his district office to serve as his new staff assistant and caseworker. “I am very glad to have Allison join our team,” said Lucas. “With her knowledge of the district and previous work experience, I know she will be a tremendous asset to my staff and the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. As staff assistant in my district office, Allison will be the first person constituents talk to when they call my office for help, and I know she will listen and be attentive to their needs.” In her new role Litterell will tend to the basic office duties and assist Lucas’ constituents in dealing with federal agencies. “I’m very excited to be a part of Congressman Lucas’ staff,” said Litterell. “I can’t wait to serve the people of Oklahoma’s third district.” Litterell graduated from Southwestern Oklahoma State University in 2006 with her bachelor’s degree in Business Administration. She most recently worked for Edward Jones Investments as a Branch Office Administrator. Litterell is the daughter of Lee and Jan Litterell of Elk City, Okla. and the granddaughter of Don and Norma Dirickson, of Elk City, Okla. and Mozelle Litterell, of Rogers, Ark. --30--
04.25.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today announced Brianna Domnick, Field Representative, is representing an additional 11 counties in Oklahoma. In addition to Kay county, which Domnick already represented, she is now also covering Alfalfa, Beaver, Cimmaron, Garfield, Grant, Harper, Kingfisher, Major, Texas, Woods and Woodward counties. “Brianna has been working for me since 2009, and she has been a tremendous asset to my staff,” said Lucas. “She has served the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District particularly well as a field representative who has covered many counties in the northwestern part of my district. Brianna has done a fantastic job of being attentive to the needs and concerns of the residents in the territory she has been covering, and I know she will serve the residents of these additional 11 counties with the same enthusiasm.” “As a Slapout, Okla. native,” said Domnick, “I look forward to serving the constituents in the northwest portion of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District.” Constituents residing in counties represented by Domnick are encouraged to reach out to her if they need help with federal issues. For assistance please contact Domnick in Congressman Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958. --30--
04.24.2012	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Frank Lucas recently hired David Herber, a Stroud Okla. native, to serve as a field representative covering Canadian, Creek, Lincoln, Logan, Noble, Osage, Pawnee and Payne counties in the northeast corner of the district. “I am very pleased to welcome David to my staff,” said Lucas. “He has the important task of being the eyes and ears while I am in Washington, making sure I am aware of the issues that are most important to the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. With his past work experience and knowledge of the district, I know he will be a tremendous asset to my staff and constituents.” As field representative, Herber will act as a grassroots representative for Lucas, keeping the congressman informed on developments in the area and attending events on Lucas’ behalf when he is in Washington. “I am excited to be working for Congressman Lucas and serving the people of the Third District,” said Herber. In 2011, Herber received his bachelor’s degree from the University of Central Oklahoma, where he majored in Marketing. He most recently worked for Express Employment Professionals at their International Headquarters in the Franchise Department. Herber is the son of Ted and Pat Herber and the grandson of Marie Anderson and Lucille Herber. Congressman Lucas’ Oklahoma office provides a myriad of services to constituents, including assisting in dealings with federal agencies and providing information and assistance with obtaining federal grants. When he is not working in his field area, Herber will work in Congressman Lucas’ Canadian County office. He can be reached at (405) 373-1958. --30--
03.22.2012	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Frank Lucas today delivered the following remarks after President Barack Obama visited an oil pipe yard near Cushing, Okla. where he touted his Administration’s energy policies. “I am pleased President Obama made the trip to Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District to discuss domestic energy and see the great work taking place in Cushing,” said Lucas. “The president announced that he will expedite permits to build a portion of the Keystone XL Pipeline from Cushing to the Texas Gulf Coast. While this sounds encouraging, his approval of this leg of the project is not required. In fact, The Army Corps of Engineers hands out around 90,000 similar permits each year. The president is trying to take credit for a project he has actually rejected twice, and I believe his trip is nothing more than a campaign stop. “Ironically, President Obama has failed to approve of the entire Keystone XL Pipeline project. His approval is needed so TransCanada can move forward with construction of the northern portion of the pipeline, which would carry oil from the Canadian oil sands down south to Cushing. This project would create 20,000 construction jobs and potentially 250,000 direct and indirect jobs in the U.S. In Oklahoma, we would see $1.2 billion in new spending and more than 14,400 person years of employment added to the state. Additionally, implementation of this project would increase our domestic oil supply by 700,000 barrels per day, while in-turn decreasing the amount of money Americans are paying at the gas pumps. “If President Obama is serious about increasing our domestic oil supply and putting Americans back to work, he will approve of the Keystone XL Pipeline project in its entirety.” --30--
03.21.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas (R-OK) was today presented with a USA Wind Jobs Champion Award for his determined support and diligent work in helping to create and sustain U.S. jobs in the wind energy industry and its manufacturing supply chain. "I am honored to be a recipient of the USA Wind Jobs Champion Award," said Lucas. "Oklahoma is a leading producer of wind energy, and I know firsthand the tremendous benefits this resource has brought to our state and the much needed economic development this industry brings to our rural communities. I have always been a strong supporter of the wind industry, and am proud to be a cosponsor of legislation that extends the production tax credit for wind energy. I will continue to promote our energy resources that spur job creation and provide energy security for America." Denise Bode, American Wind Energy Association’s Chief Executive Officer and David “Steve” Parr, site manager for Weatherford Wind Energy Center in Oklahoma presented Congressman Lucas with the award – a commemorative plaque and wind turbine bolt made in the U.S.A from American steel by the Dyson Corporation of Painesville, OH. “Congressman Lucas’ continued support of the wind energy industry in our state is helping to keep Oklahomans working and producing valuable goods all across America,” said Parr. In Congressman Lucas’ district, 925 turbines harness the State’s natural wind resources to generate approximately 1700 megawatts of electricity. That’s enough power to meet the needs of over 600,000 Oklahoma households. The wind industry supports as many as 2,000 Oklahoma jobs. Oklahoma is home to several major wind energy manufacturing facilities. In 2011 the State added the 5th largest amount of new wind capacity making it the state with the 8th most installed wind capacity in the US. “I want to thank Congressman Lucas for his strong support of American jobs and private investment in one of America’s fastest growing manufacturing sectors,” said Bode. “Congressman Lucas understands that wind power is creating an American success story, but this success depends on stable tax policy. With the Congressman’s strong support, we are working to extend American wind’s crucial Production Tax Credit and save tens of thousands of good American jobs in the wind industry.” Note: An extension of the wind energy Production Tax Credit has also received the editorial endorsement of the Daily Oklahoman: https://newsok.com/extension-of-federal-wind-power-tax-credit-makes-sense/article/3651937 --30--
03.08.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today joined his House colleagues in voting for passage of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (JOBS Act), which removes government barriers to job creation and promotes economic prosperity. “As we struggle with a sluggish economy, we need initiatives that will help boost job creation in America,” said Lucas. “I am glad that the JOBS Act passed the House today. This bill will help improve access to the capital markets for all small businesses, and I believe this is the best way to promote a healthy economy where jobs can be created. Allowing businesses more access to capital will allow them the opportunity to thrive. “Additionally, this bill helps revitalize the financial markets to help create business growth, promote innovation and maintain economic competiveness in America. These initiatives are key to putting hard working Americans back in a hard working job, and it is my hope that this legislation will be sent to the Senate for passage and signed into law by President Obama.” --30--
03.01.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Beaver, Cimarron, Ellis, Harper, Texas and Woodward counties March 15 – 16. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Thursday, March 15: Woodward Town Hall Meeting 10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. High Plains Technology Center, Seminar Room 3921 34th Street Beaver Town Hall Meeting 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. First Security Bank 15 South Douglas Street Guymon Town Hall Meeting 4:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Texas County OSU Extension Office 301 North Main Street Friday, March 16: Boise City Town Hall Meeting 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. PTCI, Meeting Room 211 West Main Street Buffalo Town Hall Meeting 2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. Northwestern Electric Cooperative 102 West Turner Street Arnett Town Hall Meeting 4:30 p.m. – 5:30 p.m. Fire Station 112 East Barnes Street --30--
02.28.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today announced the application process for the annual Congressional Art Competition has begun. The Congressman’s participation in the contest allows a student from Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District to display a piece of his or her artwork in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. “It’s with great excitement that I announce the kick-off of this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Lucas. “Every year I enjoy walking through the corridor from my office to the Capitol and seeing all the wonderful works of art displayed by these talented students. I look forward to selecting a student from Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District for this year’s contest winner.” The winner will receive two plane tickets, sponsored by Southwest Airlines, to visit Washington, D.C. for an unveiling ceremony for all the winners this summer. He or she may also be eligible for a college scholarship given by the Savannah College of Art and Design. Final submissions must be delivered to Congressman Lucas by Monday, April 16, 2012. For more information, please visit https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition. For drop off locations or other questions, please contact Lynne Hill in Lucas’ district office at (405) 373-1958. --30--
02.06.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Caddo, Greer, Harmon, Jackson, Kiowa and Washita counties February 22-23. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Wednesday, February 22: Anadarko Town Hall Meeting 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. City Hall, Council Chambers 501 West Virginia Mountain View Town Hall Meeting 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Mountain View – Gotebo High School, Auditorium 150 South First Street Hobart Town Hall Meeting 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Hobart City Hall, Council Chambers 111 East 3rd Street Hollis Town Hall Meeting 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Hollis Civic Center 208 West Jones Thursday, February 23: Altus Town Hall Meeting 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Western Oklahoma State College, Band Room H12 2801 North Main Street Mangum Town Hall Meeting 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. Mangum Welcome Center, Meeting Room 119 East Jefferson Cordell Town Hall Meeting 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Washita County Activity Center 1005 East 3rd --30--
01.24.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s third State of the Union address. This marks the last State of the Union speech the president will make to a joint session of Congress before the November 2012 election. “Tonight President Obama focused his State of the Union address on the United States’ struggling economy,” said Lucas. “While I commend the president for addressing the serious issues facing our great country, I would hope he would make a strong effort to come to the table and execute a plan that will turn this ailing economy around and put many unemployed Americans back to work. “The President said he wants to ‘move forward, and lay out a blueprint for an economy that’s built to last’. In order to achieve this, the president must realize his reckless spending binge must stop. Since Obama took office in 2009, our national debt has increased by $4.6 trillion, putting us at a current deficit of over $15 trillion. Americans have been asking repeatedly for major cuts in federal spending. It is time for the president to work with Congress and make common-sense spending cuts. It is the only way we can dig ourselves out of the deficit disaster we are facing today. “Additionally, the president called for creation of new jobs in America. At a time when our unemployment rate stands at 8.5 percent, I also believe it is time to focus on job creation in our country. While the great state of Oklahoma has fared better than the rest of the nation, many other states are struggling to put Americans back to work. House Republicans have passed almost 30 bills to spur job creation in the U.S. If the President is serious about working together in Congress, the House remains ready to share ideas that will take thousands of Americans out of the unemployment lines and back to work.” --30--
01.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today unveiled his new congressional Web site. Lucas updated the site so constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District can experience more usability and functionality while they are navigating his online office. “I believe the new Web site will serve the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District better with its updated design and newly added features,” said Lucas. “The previous site was getting outdated, and it is my priority to provide the best online services possible to my constituents. I hope you can visit the Web site and take advantage of the great resources it has to offer.” Lucas’ Web site features an updated Friends of Frank newsletter sign-up box on the home page. Constituents can easily sign-up for updates by entering their county and email in the fields listed in the box on the homepage. After signing up, constituents will start receiving newsletters with information about the current issues Lucas is working on in Congress. The Web site has also been updated with a new Bill Search feature that is located on the home page. This feature allows people to easily type in a bill number or a word relating to certain legislation and search the Library of Congress database for information on a bill. In addition, Oklahomans can now find out how Lucas voted on certain bills by visiting, https://lucas.house.gov/legislative-work/voting-record. The Lucas voting record feature was added to increase transparency and allow constituents to easily find information on how Lucas has voted on recent legislation. Lucas has modernized the overall design of the Web site by updating the colors and graphics. The forms have been updated so constituents can easily request meetings, invite Lucas to speak, email Lucas, or send in casework or flag requests. Additionally, the homepage now includes a photo and video viewer so constituents can view his latest media events. Lucas is encouraging constituents to visit the Web site at www.lucas.house.gov, to see what the newly updated Web site has to offer them. --30--
01.18.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today joined his House colleagues in the United States House of Representatives in voting for passage of H.J. Res. 98, The Debt Ceiling Limit Increase Disapproval Resolution. This legislation provides for disapproval of a $1.2 trillion increase in our nation’s statutory debt limit. “I am pleased the House of Representatives passed this resolution to disapprove of President Obama raising the national debt ceiling, yet once again,” said Lucas. “This debt increase marks the sixth increase in the debt limit since Obama took office. We cannot continue down this path of reckless spending in Washington. “Americans are constantly finding ways to balance their checkbooks and live within their means, and it is time for the federal government to do the same. Currently the nation’s debt is greater than the value of the entire U.S. economy. The President needs to put a stop to the idea that spending borrowed government money will somehow solve this economic disaster. “It is time for leaders in Washington to come up with real common sense solutions for dealing with this enormous debt problem. Continuing to shovel money out the door and borrow from hard working citizens will not work. We need to make serious cuts in government spending and stop allowing President Obama to borrow more money from the federal government. This is the only way to solve our current economic crisis. I hope the Senate will pass H.J. Res. 98 and send it to the President’s desk for his signature.” --30--
01.18.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas, R-OK , today made the following comments after President Barack Obama announced he would not approve of implementation of the Keystone XL Pipeline project, which would create 20,000 direct jobs and spur the creation of 118,000 spin-off jobs in the United States. “I am extremely disappointed President Obama has decided to reject the construction of the Keystone Pipeline,” said Lucas. “This pipeline has the potential to create 20,000 immediate jobs and decrease the United States’ dependency on foreign oil. Disapproval of this project will only increase the amount of money Americans pay at the gas pumps. With Oklahoma being a top producer in American made energy, it is discouraging that the President is turning down this opportunity to create economic prosperity and utilize our domestic energy resources. The Keystone XL Pipeline would most certainly serve the national interest, and I do not know why the Administration is denying America the chance to grow and prosper.” --30--
01.18.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is encouraging constituents from Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District to visit the Science Museum Oklahoma in Oklahoma City to view a test version of NASA’s Orion spacecraft January 23-25. Residents who visit the spacecraft will see a full scale test version of the vehicle that will take humans into deep space. “This is a great opportunity for constituents in the third district to see the test version of NASA’s Orion spacecraft and learn about the next generation of space hardware,” said Lucas. “I hope kids and college students interested in engineering will take advantage of this chance to learn about the incredible innovation of space travel. As a member of the House Committee on Science and Technology, where I serve on the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee, I have always been a supporter of maintaining the United States’ presence in space and holding a competitive edge against other countries involved in space exploration.” The test version of NASA’s Orion spacecraft will be traveling from the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico to the Kennedy Space Center in Florida and will be making stops in Oklahoma, Texas, and Alabama. The full-scale test vehicle was used by ground crews in advance of the launch abort system flight test that took place in New Mexico in 2010. --30--
01.04.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Frank Lucas is urging students from Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District to attend the 2012 Naval Academy Summer Seminar. The seminar is a six-day experience at the U.S. Naval Academy, Bancroft Hall in Annapolis, MD for high achievers who have completed their junior year in high school. Students will learn about life at the Naval Academy from Third Class Midshipmen while at the seminar. “I believe this is a great opportunity for high school students in the third district to learn about the Naval Academy and the tremendous amount of work that is done there,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “I would encourage students to attend this seminar to gain an understanding about the duties and responsibilities of being a midshipman and to learn about the different ways they can serve their local communities.” There are three different seminars taking place June 2-7, June 9-14, and June 16-21. Students are required to be of at least 17 years old on July 1 of the following application year, unmarried, and have superior high school performance. Students must also demonstrate leadership potential and achievement in athletics and extracurricular activities. To apply please visit, https://www.usna.edu/admissions/nass.htm. If students have any questions about this opportunity, please contact Lynne Hill with Congressman Lucas’ office at (405) 373-1958. Also, do not hesitate to contact other Service Academies to get information about other upcoming seminar sessions. --30--
12.13.2011	Washington, DC - U.S. Congressman Frank Lucas today joined his House colleagues in passing H.R. 3630, The Middle Class Tax Relief and Jobs Creation Act of 2011. This legislation would promote job creation in America by providing a fully-offset extension of the current payroll tax rates. The bill would also delay implementation of the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate and create an extension of reformed Unemployment Insurance benefits. Additionally, H.R. 3630 would provide new incentives for job creation by removing burdensome EPA regulations and taking initiative on the Keystone XL energy project. “I am glad the House passed the Middle Class Tax Relief and Jobs Creation Act of 2011,” said Lucas. “I believe this legislation provides many great initiatives that will help tackle the jobs crisis we are facing today. During this economic downturn, many Americans have struggled to find jobs, and it is time to provide more certainty and put these citizens back to work. “This bill includes legislation that will require President Obama to consider issuing a permit for the Keystone XL Pipeline project within 60 days of enactment of this Act. The President needs to issue this permit so we can proceed with this project that will create tens-of-thousands of private sector jobs and decrease our dependency on oil from other countries. We cannot continue to pass up these opportunities to boost the economy and spur job creation. “The House has already passed 28 jobs bills; however no action has been taken on them in the Senate. It is time for the Senate to act, and I urge them to pass this bill and send it to President Obama’s desk for his signature.” --30--
11.19.2011	Washington, DC - Due to an unexpected death in the family, Congressman Frank Lucas will be unable to conduct the Woodward town hall meeting listed below. Tuesday, November 22 Woodward Town Hall Meeting 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. High Plains Technology Center, Seminar Room 3921 34th Street --30--
11.18.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes Glenn Carter, a Norman, Okla. Native, to his Washington D.C. staff. Carter was hired to serve as Lucas’ staff assistant earlier this month. “I am pleased to have Glenn join my staff,” said Lucas. “With his past work experience and education in political science, I know he will be very beneficial to our team and to the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. Since beginning in my office earlier this month, Glenn has already proven to be a wonderful new asset to my staff.” Carter was most recently an intern for Lucas’ congressional office where he assisted staffers with basic office duties and legislative projects. Prior to his internship he was a summer of 2010 Legal Intern for the Oklahoma State Department of Health. In May 2008, Carter earned his Bachelor’s degree with Distinction in Political Science, and in May 2011 he graduated from the University of Oklahoma, College of Law with his Juris Doctor degree. “I am excited to work with Congressman Lucas and his staff,” said Carter. “I look forward to serving the Congressman and the people of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District.” Carter’s parents are Mamie and Bill Carter from Riverside, Calif. His grandmother is Patricia Carter of Norman, Okla. --30--
11.01.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce an upcoming town hall meeting to be held in Woodward on November 22. Lucas invites residents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District to attend this meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, November 22Woodward Town Hall Meeting3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. High Plains Technology Center, Seminar Room3921 34th Street --30--
09.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas today announced he has rescheduled Ponca City and Perry town hall meetings for Monday, September 26. Lucas had previously canceled the meetings due to Congress’ decision to remain in session to work on budget and debt ceiling solutions. All residents of these locations are invited to attend and express their concerns. Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, September 26: Ponca City Town Hall Meeting1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Pioneer Technology Center, Seminar Center2101 North Ash Street Perry Town Hall Meeting 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. Exchange Bank, Horizon Room523 Delaware Street --30--
08.15.2011	Washington, DC - {Washington, D.C. – Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Alfalfa, Garfield, Grant, Kingfisher, Major and Woods counties August 30 and 31. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, August 3010:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.Fairview Town Hall MeetingNorthwest Tech Center, Seminar Room801 Vo-Tech Drive 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m.Kingfisher Town Hall MeetingChisholm Trail Museum, Auditorium Building605 Zellers Avenue 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Hennessey Town Hall MeetingHennessey Public Library, Auditorium 525 South Main Street Wednesday, August 3110:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.Enid Town Hall MeetingNorthern Oklahoma College, Briggs Auditorium 100 South University Avenue 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m.Medford Town Hall MeetingMedford City Hall615 North Front 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.Cherokee Town Hall MeetingAlfalfa Country Farm Bureau 113 South Grand 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.Alva Town Hall MeetingNWOSU, Ranger Room709 Oklahoma Boulevard --30--
08.09.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Beckham, Custer and Dewey counties August 23 and 25. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Tuesday, August 23:9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.Clinton Town Hall MeetingFrisco Center101 South 4th 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.Elk City Town Hall MeetingConvention Center1016 Airport Industrial Rd. 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m.Sayre Town Hall MeetingWestern Technology Center2002 Northeast Highway 66 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.Erick Town Hall MeetingCommunity Building102 West 2nd Thursday, August 25:10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.Weatherford Town Hall MeetingCity Hall522 West Rainey Avenue 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m.Thomas Town Hall MeetingHigh School Auditorium920 North Main Street 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.Taloga Town Hall MeetingFirst American Bank, Conference RoomMain Street and North Broadway 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.Seiling Town Hall MeetingCity Hall315 North Main Street --30--
07.12.2011	Washington, DC - Due to the decision for Congress to remain in session the week of July 18-22 in order to continue working on budget and debt ceiling solutions, Congressman Frank Lucas’ town hall meetings listed below have been canceled. Tuesday, July 19, 2011: Perry Town Hall Meeting 10:00-11:00 Perry Municipal Building 729 Cedar Street Billings Town Hall Meeting 11:30-12:30 Billings Community Building 201 West Main Street Blackwell Town Hall Meeting 2:00-3:00 Kay Electric 300 West Doolin Ponca City Town Hall Meeting 3:30-4:30 Pioneer Technology Center Seminar Center 2101 North Ash Street Wednesday, July 20, 2011: Stillwater Town Hall Meeting 9:00-10:00 Stillwater Public Library Reception Area 1107 South Duck Cushing Town Hall Meeting 11:00-12:00 Spirit Bank Community Room 300 North Harrison Avenue Guthrie Town Hall Meeting 2:00-3:00 Guthrie Job Corps Center 3106 West University --30--
07.06.2011	Washington, DC - U.S. Congressman Frank Lucas (R-OK) recently welcomed Taelor McClure to Washington to recognize her as this year’s Congressional Art Competition winner from Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. McClure was presented an award for her oil painting, entitled “Pards” at a ceremony and reception honoring winners across the nation. Her artwork will be displayed in the corridor tunnel leading to the U.S. Capitol Building for one year along with winning entries from other congressional districts. “Taelor has represented our district well with her artistic talent,” said Lucas. “Members of Congress and visitors from all over the world travel the corridor daily. It gives me a great sense of pride to notice her painting is labeled as from Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District, and I know other visitors enjoy her artistic creativity as well. I congratulate Taelor and I encourage her to continue pursuing her interest in art.” Taelor is a sophomore at Alva High School, and she is the daughter of Greg and Amy McClure. For more information or to learn how to participate in next year’s competition, visit Lucas’ Web site at lucas.house.gov, click on the “Constituent Services” menu and select “Congressional Art Competition.” --30--
06.07.2011	Washington, DC - U.S. Congressman Frank Lucas today issued the following statement in response to Rep. Dan Boren’s announcement he will not be seeking reelection in 2012. “I appreciate the hard-work and dedication Rep. Boren has shown while serving Oklahoma in the U.S. House of Representatives over the past six years,” said Lucas. “His many accomplishments have not gone unnoticed, and he has proven to be a successful leader during his time in office. I respect his decision to not seek reelection, and I wish him the best of luck in the future.” --30--
05.26.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes Gustine, Texas native Laramie Adams to his Washington, D.C. staff. Adams was hired to serve as Lucas’ communications director earlier this month. “I am very glad to have Laramie join our team,” Lucas said. “I know his experience and expertise in communications will be a tremendous asset to my staff and to the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District.” Adams most recently served as communications and membership coordinator for the Animal Agriculture Alliance, where he assisted with the development and implementation of the Alliance’s communications and membership strategy. Previously he served as press assistant for the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry. Adams graduated from Texas Tech University in December 2009 with a Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Communications. “It is an honor to work with Congressman Lucas and his staff,” said Adams. “I look forward to serving the Congressman and the people of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District in my new role as Communications Director.” Adams’ parents are Larry and Sheri Adams from Gustine, Texas. His grandparents are Grace Adams from Gustine, Texas, and Gerald and Billie Thomas from Brownwood, Texas. --30--
04.22.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas would like to congratulate Ponca City native Carol Southard for her acceptance of appointment at the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. Carol will be a member of the Air Force class of 2015 and will begin classes there in the fall.“Congratulations to Carol on her selection to the United States Air Force Academy,” said Lucas. “I’m proud to have nominated Carol, her hard work and determination is a prime example of the capable and determined students we have in the Third District of Oklahoma. This a great opportunity for Carol, and I wish her the best of luck and continued success in all her future endeavors.”In May, Carol will graduate as salutatorian from Ponca City High School. She serves as a member of the marching and concert bands, symphonic orchestra and National Honor Society. Her parents are Mr. and Mrs. Mark Southard of Ponca City, Oklahoman. Her grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. Glen Brinson of Ponca City, Oklahoma, and Mr. and Mrs. Mike Southard of Albuquerque, New Mexico. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. # # #
04.15.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Blaine, Caddo and Canadian counties. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. April 25, 2011 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. OKEENE TOWN HALL MEETING Okeene Community Center 116 West E Street 12:30 p.m. – 1:30 p.m. WATONGA TOWN HALL MEETING Watonga City Hall, Grand Ballroom 117 North Weigle 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. HINTON TOWN HALL MEETING Fire Station Community Room 115 South Broadway 4:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. ANADARKO TOWN HALL MEETING Anadarko City Hall Council Chambers 501 West Virginia Avenue April 26, 2011 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. PIEDMONT TOWN HALL MEETING George Fina Municipal Building 314 Edmond Road Northwest 11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. YUKON TOWN HALL MEETING Dale Robertson Center 1200 Lakeshore Drive 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. EL RENO TOWN HALL MEETING Redlands Community College, Room MM125 1300 South Country Club Road # # #
04.08.2011	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Creek, Lincoln, Osage, and Pawnee counties. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Congressman Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress.April 18, 20119:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. CHANDLER TOWN HALL MEETINGChandler Library Community Room 1021 Manvel Avenue10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. STROUD TOWN HALL MEETINGHeritage Hall, Old Elementary Bldg111 West 7th Avenue1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. BRISTOW TOWN HALL MEETINGBristow Public Library 111 West 7th Avenue2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. SAPULPA TOWN HALL MEETINGSalpulpa City Hall, Council Chambers425 East Dewey April 19, 201111:00 a.m. – Noon HOMINY TOWN HALL MEETINGHominy City Hall 219 West 1st Street 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. PAWHUSKA TOWN HALL MEETING Community Center520 Lynn Avenue 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. PAWNEE TOWN HALL MEETINGOSTA Headquarters, Steam Park Grounds 401 East Beck Drive # # #
04.06.2011	Washington, DC Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} - Congressman Frank Lucas would like to congratulate Ponca City native Obadare Ogundipe for his acceptance of appointment at the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. Obadare will be a member of the Air Force class of 2015 and will begin classes there in the fall.“I am pleased to congratulate Obadare on his selection to the United States Air Force Academy,” said Lucas. “Obadare’s selection is a true testament of his hard work and determination and it’s a pleasure to serve such capable and dedicated young people from Oklahoma’s Third District. The United States Air Force Academy is excellent institution of higher learning, and I wish Obadare the best of luck this fall and continued success in all his future endeavors.”In May, Obadare will graduate from St. Mark’s School of Texas, where he is an active student. In addition to serving as captain of both the fencing team and the Model United Nations Club, he is also a senior writer for the school paper, The Remarker. As an Eagle Scout, Obadare is an avid outdoorsman, spending much of his time hiking, back packing, and camping. His parents are Dr. and Mrs. Akin Ogundipe of Ponca City, Oklahoma. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. # # #
03.30.2011	Washington, DC Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} - Congressman Frank Lucas would like to congratulate Perry native Luke Andrew for his acceptance of appointment at the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. Andrew will be a member of the Air Force class of 2015 and will begin classes there in the fall.“I would like to congratulate Luke on his selection to the United States Air Force Academy,” stated Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his hard work, but it also demonstrates what capable and determined students we have in the Third District of Oklahoma. This is a great opportunity for Luke, and I wish him luck this fall and continued success in all his endeavors.” In May, Luke will graduate as valedictorian from Perry High School. He serves as the National Honor Society Treasurer, and a member of the tennis, cross country, basketball and football teams. As an Eagle Scout, Luke is an avid outdoorsman, spending much of his time hiking, back packing, canoeing, and camping. His parents are Mr. and Mrs. Stan Andrew of Perry, Oklahoma. His grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. John Andrew of Durant, Oklahoma; Mr. James Bailey of Sapulpa, Oklahoma; and Ms. Susan Borders of Perry, Oklahoma. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. # # #
03.09.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas is proud to announce the kick-off of the annual Congressional Art Contest. The Congressman’s participation in the contest allows a student from the Third District to display a piece of his or her artwork in the U.S. Capitol. The student will receive two plane tickets to visit Washington, DC for an unveiling ceremony for all the winners this summer. In addition, he or she may be eligible for a college scholarship. “The Congressional Art Contest is a great opportunity for students in the Third District to be honored for their outstanding achievement in art,” stated Lucas. “I am very proud of the talent shown in the previous years’ winners and look forward to selecting a student for this year’s contest.”Final submissions must be delivered to Congressman Lucas by Thursday, April 21, 2011. For more information, please visit https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition. For drop off locations or other questions, please contact Lynne Hill in Lucas’ Canadian County Office at (405)373-1958. # # #
02.19.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 1, the Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011, which funds the federal government for the remaining months of Fiscal Year 2011. This bill is the result of an open amendment process, which allows members on both sides of the aisle an opportunity to make their constituents’ voices heard. In unprecedented fashion, the Republican Leadership allowed nearly 600 amendments and countless hours of debate. It passed the House with a 235 to 189 vote.“Under the previous leadership in the last Congress, we failed to pass any of the regular appropriations bills needed to fund the federal government. The Continuing Resolution cuts at least 100 billion in spending, bringing federal spending for the rest of this fiscal year back to FY2008 levels,” stated Lucas. “The more the government borrows, spends and regulates, the harder it is for businesses to access capital and create jobs. Our economy cannot grow and businesses will not be able to create jobs without these spending reductions.”“The federal government must learn to live within our means just like American families. Passing the Continuing Resolution fulfills the promise I made to my constituents after hearing their concerns with the 14 trillion dollar debt. We must reduce federal spending, get our fiscal house back in order and continue moving the country forward.” # # #
02.10.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas extends his congratulations to Enid native Bryce Kvasnicka for his acceptance of appointment at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis. Kvasnicka will be a member of the Naval Academy class of 2015, and begins classes there in the fall.“I would like to congratulate Bryce on his selection to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis,” stated Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his hard work, but it also demonstrates what capable and determined students we have in the Third District of Oklahoma. This is a great opportunity for Bryce, and I wish him luck this fall and continued success in all his endeavors.”In May, Kvasnicka will graduate as valedictorian from Chisholm High School. He serves as the captain of the baseball team, and is a member of both the National Honor Society and the school’s student council. His parents are Mr. Brent and Mrs. Lisa Coffman and the late Kevin Kvasnicka of Enid, Oklahoma. His grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Kroll, Mr. and Mrs. Harold Coffman, and Mr. Lynn Kvasnicka and Ms. Vi Kvasnicka all of Enid, Oklahoma.Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. # # #
01.25.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union address: "Tonight, I was pleased to see President Obama focus on the country's recovering economy and job growth in his speech. Although Oklahoma has fared better than the rest of the nation, much of our country continues to suffer through our current economic troubles. Rather than continue wasteful spending that has led to a national debt of more than $14 trillion, we should concentrate on improving our economy, creating jobs, and reducing Americans' tax burden. "President Obama vowed to work with Republicans to put an end to irresponsible, out of control spending. I believe Republicans and Democrats alike see that it is time to step away from partisan bickering and focus on the future of our country. While I cannot say I agree with everything the President said this evening, he seems more willing to work in a bipartisan manner- to move more towards a responsible way of governing for the American people. And I hope this speech is a beginning. "There are challenges between the speech delivered tonight and the reality of what we have to do. In the 2010 election, the American people made it clear that they want less spending, less government and smart policies that will fuel private sector growth. If the President is serious about working together to find solutions, Republicans are open and eager to reduce spending and get our country back on track. The federal government must learn to live within our means just like American families. It is time to let Americans keep more of what they earn and for government to spend less." # # #
01.24.2011	Washington, DC - Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas would like to congratulate Yukon native Trevor Shetley for his acceptance of appointment at the United States Military Academy at West Point. Shetley will be a member of the West Point class of 2015 and will begin classes there in the fall. “I would like to congratulate Trevor on his selection to the United States Military Academy at West Point,” stated Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his hard work, but it also demonstrates what capable and determined students we have in the Third District of Oklahoma. This is a great opportunity for Trevor, and I wish him luck this fall and continued success in all his endeavors.” In May, Shetley will graduate from Southwest Covenant School, where he serves as the captain of the golf and football teams and a member of the school’s student council. His parents are Mr. Alan and Mrs. Valerie Shetley of Yukon, Oklahoma. His grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. Larry Graham of Springfield, Missouri, and Mr. and Mrs. Chris Shetley of Joplin, Missouri. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly ranked, nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces upon graduation. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. # # #
01.19.2011	Washington, DC - WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) today joined a majority in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 2, the Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act, which will repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act signed into law by President Obama on March 23, 2010. Congressman Frank Lucas voted in favor of this legislation. It passed the House with a 245 to 189 vote. “By having a straight up-or-down vote on repealing Obamacare, we have kept our promise to the American people and our commitment to real health reform,” stated Lucas. “This was a promise I made to my constituents after hearing their concern with the trillion dollar government takeover of health care during the 50 town hall meetings I held last year.” “It is time to sit down and start over with reforms that don’t scare employers from hiring, reforms that allow the American people to have a choice in their health care, and save rather than cost the people of Oklahoma money.” # # #
01.13.2011	Washington, DC - U.S. Congressman Frank Lucas today announced the appointment of Garrett King to serve as his Oklahoma Agriculture Liaison. Mr. King currently serves as Lucas’ Southwest Area Field Representative and will continue those responsibilities along with the new assignment. In his new role as Oklahoma Agriculture Liaison, King will serve as a primary point of contact for constituents and agriculture groups to the Lucas’ office. Additionally, he will represent Lucas at agriculture events and work with constituents on United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) issues. “Given my new responsibilities as Chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture, it is important to have someone on the ground that can listen to the concerns of my constituents and make sure they are relayed to me in an efficient manner,” Lucas said. “Given Garrett’s understanding of the issues, I have every confidence that he is the best person to convey those ideas and concerns to me and the staff at the Committee.” Prior to accepting his new title in Congressman Lucas’ office, King has served as the Southwest Area Field Representative and caseworker on all USDA issues. He graduated from Southwestern Oklahoma State University in Weatherford with degrees in political science and history. While at Southwestern, King was active in student organizations including President of the Student Body. “It is an honor to work for Congressman Lucas,” King said. “I look forward to continuing to serve the congressman and the people of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District in my new role.” # # #
01.06.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Frank Lucas of Oklahoma issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed House Resolution 6, which formally elects him as the Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee for the 112th Congress. "As a student of agriculture economics, a rancher by trade, and a Member of this Committee from the start of my service in Congress, I am honored to have this opportunity and responsibility. I am also proud to be serving as the first Chairman of the Agriculture Committee from Oklahoma. I will continue to use my experience and perspective as a producer to help shape our nation’s agriculture policy. "We have our challenges ahead. We must work our way out of this budget mess and rein in wasteful spending. "But, we also have opportunities for economic growth. We must implement the three pending free trade agreements with Korea, Panama, and Colombia. And, we must encourage the administration to act on opening up other trade opportunities overseas for our farmers and ranchers. Foreign markets are critical to the economic viability of rural America. "It is imperative we prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from imposing standards which would cripple American agriculture and stifle economic growth in rural communities. "The work of the Agriculture Committee, including reauthorizing the farm bill in 2012, affects every American; ensuring that our farmers and ranchers have the tools they need to produce an abundant and affordable food and fiber supply is as important to our country as national defense. "I look forward to working with Ranking Member Collin Peterson and the other Members of our Committee as we move forward to ensure the health and vitality of production agriculture and rural economies," said Chairman Frank D. Lucas. # # #
01.05.2011	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Frank Lucas was sworn in as a member of the 112th Congress. “I would like to thank my fellow citizens in the Third Congressional District for allowing me to continue my service to them in the United States House of Representatives,” stated Lucas. “It is an honor to represent their voices in Congress and I look forward to fighting for the priorities of my District during the 112th Congress.” Lucas was selected to serve as the Chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture. He will serve as his party’s policy leader for all areas of the committee's jurisdiction, which includes the U.S. Department of Agriculture and its various agencies as well as the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. “Now is the time for Congress to roll up its sleeves because we have a lot of challenges ahead. I will be dedicated to cutting wasteful spending, paying down the national debt, and creating jobs. I promise to continue to push for more transparency and accountability during the next Congress. But most importantly, I will continue to represent the values and voices of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma.” This will mark Lucas’ tenth term as a member of the United States House of Representatives, serving since he was first elected in 1994 when he replaced the then retiring Rep. Glenn English in a special election held in May 1994. # # #
12.20.2010	Washington, DC - U.S. Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes Oklahoma City native Shawn McDavid to his Yukon office. McDavid was hired to serve as a field representative for his congressional office in Yukon earlier this month. “Shawn will be a great fit for my Yukon office,” Lucas said. “Since beginning his new role earlier this month, Shawn has already proven to be a wonderful asset to my district staff and to the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District. He’ll be right at home as my Yukon field representative.””Prior to accepting his new position in Congressman Lucas’ office, McDavid served as the intern manager on the Deep Fork Tree Farm in Arcadia, OK. He graduated from the University of Oklahoma last May with a Bachelor of Business Administration in Entrepreneurship and Venture Management. While at the University of Oklahoma, McDavid was a member and recruitment chairman of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and active in the school’s intramural football and golf programs. “It is an honor to work for Congressman Lucas,” stated McDavid. “I look forward to serving the congressman and the people of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District in my new role as field representative.” McDavid’s parents are Shelly McDavid from Oklahoma City, OK and John McDavid from Wichita Falls, TX. His grandmother, Patsy Poffenburger was raised in Cushing, OK and now resides in Oklahoma City, OK. # # #
12.08.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Frank Lucas of Oklahoma issued the following statement after his colleagues in the House Republican Conference elected him to serve as Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee in the 112th Congress. "It is an honor to continue in this leadership role of the Agriculture Committee where I have served since I was first elected to Congress. As a lifelong farmer from a diverse, agricultural state, I have lived the real world challenges farmers and ranchers face across the country. I will continue to be a strong voice for production agriculture and rural America. "Oversight is a primary responsibility of Congress and we must fulfill that duty to the American people. We will hold oversight hearings of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), which has demonstrated a fondness for overreaching regulations that defy Congressional intent and threaten production agriculture and rural economies. "I will work with my colleagues to enact legislation that eliminates the obstacles for job growth and entrepreneurship throughout rural America."And, I will work to make sure we write a market-oriented, fiscally responsible farm bill that will provide America's farmers and ranchers with the necessary tools and certainty they need to produce the safest, most affordable, most abundant food, fiber, feed and fuel supply in the history of the world," said Rep. Frank D. Lucas. Rep. Lucas is the first Oklahoman to Chair the House Agriculture Committee. # # #
11.10.2010	Washington, DC - U.S. Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes Kate Thompson as the new communications director for his congressional office. She began at the end of October and will be working out of the Washington, DC office. "I am excited to welcome Kate on board," Lucas stated. "Kate's experience and background will make her a strong addition to our team and an asset to our staff and to the constituents of Oklahoma's Third Congressional District." Before joining Congressman Lucas' office, Thompson worked as the communications coordinator to U.S. Congressman Louie Gohmert of Texas and has served on Capitol Hill for over three years. She graduated from Texas A&M University with a Bachelor of Arts in Communication. She is the daughter of Richard Thompson and Karen and Stephen Austin of Houston, TX. # # #
08.06.2010	Washington, DC - Due to the sudden announcement by Speaker Pelosi that she would call the House back into session on August 9th and August 10th for votes on the state bailout bill. Because this impromptu session of Congress will conflict with Congressman Lucas’ town hall schedule, he is forced to reschedule the Ponca City, Newkirk, Stillwater, and Cushing town hall meetings initially planned for August 10th. The meetings will be held at the same time and place, but will now be held on August 24th. The meetings scheduled for August 9th in Perry, Billings, Medford, and Blackwell will go on as scheduled. “It is unfortunate that Speaker Pelosi has decided to call the House back into session, disrupting my town hall meetings. These meetings are very important to me and I know that the people in these towns have always been avid participants in their annual town hall meeting. “However, the speaker and her leadership team are trying once again to spending billions upon billions of taxpayer money on yet another bailout. I believe it is my constitutional obligation to return to Washington and ensure that the voices of the people of the Third Congressional District are heard – and those voices say no more bailouts. I hope that the citizens of Ponca City, Newkirk, Stillwater, and Cushing will understand and will be able to attend the rescheduled meetings on August 24th,” stated Lucas. Tuesday, August 24, 2010 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m.PONCA CITY TOWN HALL MEETINGPioneer Technology Center, Seminar Center East2101 North Ash Street 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.NEWKIRK TOWN HALL MEETINGNewkirk Senior Center525 West South Street 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m.STILLWATER TOWN HALL MEETINGStillwater Public Library 1107 South Duck Street 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.CUSHING TOWN HALL MEETINGCushing City Hall, Council Chamber100 Judy Adams Boulevard # # #
07.27.2010	Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives voted on and passed the FY2010 emergency supplemental appropriations package, which included much needed funding for our troops. The bill contained a total of $55 billion in funding, including $33 billion in defense spending. The bill was originally drafted by the Senate in February, but was amended by the House of Representatives in early July to include an additional $27 billion in non-emergency, domestic spending initiatives. These additions ensured that the legislation would not be passed by the July 4th weekend, ignoring the requests of General Petraeus and Secretary Gates. The Senate reconsidered the legislation and once again sent it to the House with no additional domestic spending. “Since February, my colleagues and I have been calling for the swift passage of a clean emergency supplemental appropriations bill that would quickly send much needed funds to our brave men and women who risk their lives each day on front lines of the war on terror. Instead, this process was held up by congressional Democrats’ attempt to strap billions upon billions of new spending initiatives and bailouts on the backs of our troops, ping-ponging the bill back and forth between the House and the Senate for the past six months. “Thankfully, today Congress finally followed the urging of top generals and Department of Defense officials, including General Petraeus and Secretary Gates, and passed a clean version of the legislation. The legislation will now go to President Obama and I strongly urge him to quickly sign the bill into law. Failure to finalize this legislation could force commanders in the field to make budget cuts which could compromise the safety and security of our men and women on the front line and our overall mission in the war on terror.” # # #
06.24.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas stood up for First Amendment rights with his vote against H.R. 5175 the DISCLOSE Act. The legislation was rapidly thrown together in response to the Supreme Court’s decision in the Citizens United v. Federal Elections Commission case. In their ruling, the Supreme Court struck down existing restrictions on corporate expenditures based on First Amendment grounds. “The ‘DISCLOSE’ Act is nothing more than a restriction on free speech – except when it comes to labor unions and Washington special interest groups,” stated Lucas. “The Supreme Court spoke loud and clear when they held that it was unconstitutional to ban books and restrict political speech. Their decision in the Citizens United case was a victory for First Amendment rights and should not be diluted with hastily-crafted legislation that carves out special exceptions for groups historically supportive of Democrats in an election year.” The legislation creates highly complex reporting requirements that are unlikely to impact unions, but will dramatically increase costs on small businesses and corporations. As with almost all large pieces of legislation pushed by the Obama Administration and Speaker Pelosi, the legislation forces these complex changes much too quickly – taking effect 30 days after it is signed into law – without waiting for the FEC to issue instructions and rules so people can follow the law and avoid criminal and civil punishment. “It appears as though Speaker Pelosi and President Obama’s newest slogan should be: ‘The More Red Tape, The Better,’” stated Lucas. “Just like their government takeover of health care and their attempt to impose a $600 billion tax increase on energy, the DISCLOSE act creates more onerous rules and regulations that must be followed in order for American companies to assert their First Amendment right to free speech. This bill just means more government intrusion, more government regulations, and fewer rights for American citizens.” The House of Representatives passed the legislation by a vote of 219 – 206. It will now be taken up by the Senate. Although no vote has been scheduled, Majority Leader Reid promised swift action on the bill once it passed the House. # # #
06.14.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas would like to congratulate Guthrie native Ryan Bilyeu for his acceptance of appointment at the United States Military Academy at West Point. Bilyeu will be a member of the West Point class of 2014 and will begin classes there in the fall. “I would like to congratulate Ryan on his selection to the United States Military Academy at West Point,” stated Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his hard work, but it also demonstrates what capable and determined students we have in the Third District of Oklahoma. This is a great opportunity for Ryan, and I wish him luck this fall and continued success in all his endeavors.” In May, Bilyeu completed one year at the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School after having graduated from Guthrie High School in 2009. While at Guthrie High School Talley was a member of the National Honors Society, student government, and the wrestling team. He continued to wrestle at the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School and will wrestle at West Point next year. His parents are Kelly and Crystal Bilyeu of Guthrie, Oklahoma and Paul and Susan Carlson of Guthrie, Oklahoma. His grandparents are Sheila Bilyeu of Guthrie Oklahoma and Gene and Mary-Lou Gaither of Kingfisher, Oklahoma. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Air Force Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the United States Military Academy at West Point, and the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly-ranked nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces once they graduate. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. # # #
06.14.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas would like to congratulate Stillwater native Matthew Wesley “Wes” Talley for his acceptance of appointment at the United States Military Academy at West Point. Talley will be a member of the West Point class of 2014 and will begin classes there in the fall. “I would like to congratulate Wes on his selection to the United States Military Academy at West Point,” stated Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his hard work, but it also demonstrates what capable and determined students we have in the Third District of Oklahoma. This is a great opportunity for Wes, and I wish him luck this fall and continued success in all his endeavors.” In May, Talley completed one year at the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School after having graduated from Stillwater High School in 2009. While at Stillwater High School Talley was a member of the National Honors Society and the Pioneer Choral. An avid athlete throughout his life, Talley will also be a member of the wrestling team at West Point. His parents are Elizabeth Talley of Stillwater, Oklahoma, and Kevin Talley, of Houston, Texas. His grandparents are Mrs. Jacquelyn Keys and the late Howard “Sonny” Keys also of Stillwater, Oklahoma. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Air Force Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the United States Military Academy at West Point, and the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly-ranked nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces once they graduate. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. # # #
06.11.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas would like to congratulate Stillwater native Babak Khoshroo for his acceptance of appointment at the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Khoshroo will be a member of the Naval Academy’s class of 2014 and will begin classes there in the fall. “I would like to congratulate Babak on his selection to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis,” stated Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his hard work, but it also demonstrates what capable and determined students we have in the Third District of Oklahoma. This is a great opportunity for Babak, and I wish him luck this fall and continued success in all his endeavors.” In May, Khoshroo completed a year at the U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School after having graduated from Stillwater High School in 2009. While at Stillwater High School, Khoshroo competed on the school’s swim team, water polo team, and football team. He also served on the student government. Khoshroo has family history of military service. His brother Yasha will begin his second year at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point in the fall and his mother is currently a captain in the United States Army. His parents, Hamid and Roya Khoshroo, are from Stillwater, Oklahoma. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Air Force Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the United States Military Academy at West Point, and the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly-ranked nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces once they graduate. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. # # #
06.10.2010	Washington, DC - This week, Congressman Frank Lucas was named a conferee to the financial services regulatory reform Conference Committee. Typically, when the House and Senate draft differing pieces of legislation regarding the same topic, a Conference Committee is formed to iron out the differences between the two bills. “I am honored to have been chosen as a member of the Conference Committee on the regulatory reform legislation. The far-reaching implications of this legislation will impact every American. Not only will it establish rules to govern our financial industry, including our banking industry and financial markets, but it will also affect everything from retiree’s pensions, to available credit for family farmers, to regulations of small businesses, even to rules governing the credit and debit cards of American consumers; so it is imperative that we get it right. For that reason, we must have an open and transparent Conference Committee where all ideas and opinions are thoroughly discussed and a fair and balanced compromise among all sides is created. “A claim has been made that this Conference Committee will be conducted in an open forum, and I truly hope that will be the case. The more open and transparent our negotiations are, the better the final legislation will be. However this claim has been made many times in the past with no actual follow through. I sincerely hope that Chairman Frank will ensure that all discussions pertaining to this important legislation are conducted in a public forum and that all members of this Conference Committee will be able to participate,” stated Lucas. The Conference Committee began negotiations Thursday, June 10th and is expected to continue meeting over the next several weeks until a final draft is completed. A total of 31 House members were selected to serve on the Conference Committee, including 11 Republicans and 20 Democrats. Twelve Senators will serve on the committee, including seven Democrats and 5 Republicans. Lucas is the only member of the Oklahoma delegation to serve on the committee. # # #
06.10.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas would like to congratulate Stillwater native Caleb Ritchey for his acceptance of appointment at the United States Military Academy at West Point. Ritchey will be a member of the West Point class of 2014 and will begin classes there in the fall. “I would like to congratulate Caleb on his selection to the United States Military Academy at West Point,” stated Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his hard work, but it also demonstrates what capable and determined students we have in the Third District of Oklahoma. This is a great opportunity for Caleb, and I wish him luck this fall and continued success in all his endeavors.” In May, Ritchey graduated from Stillwater High School, where he played in the school’s marching and concert bands and was a member of the school’s cross country team. As an Eagle Scout, Ritchey is an avid outdoorsman, spending much of his time back packing, canoeing, and camping. His parents are Jerry and Cari Ritchey of Stillwater, Oklahoma. His grandparents are Jim and Pam Ritchey of Tulsa, Oklahoma, Virginia Marsh, of Lebanon, Missouri, and Phyllis Mann of Tulsa, Oklahoma. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Military Academy at West Point, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly-ranked nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces once they graduate. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. # # #
05.25.2010	Washington, DC - U.S. Third District Congressman Frank Lucas is proud to join his Republican colleagues to announce the creation of America Speaking Out. America Speaking Out is a project to create a new agenda for House Republicans that involves the American people in the decision making process. “The Democratic leadership in Congress and President Obama’s administration have repeatedly failed to listen to the will of the American people,” stated Lucas. “Between the incredibly unpopular government run health care law, the job killing cap-and-tax legislation, or the multiple taxpayer funded bailouts, the American people have had enough and deserve to have their voices heard. America Speaking Out will allow just that – an opportunity for every American to share their ideas, express their opinions, and actually be heard by their members of Congress.” In order to reach the largest number of people possible, House Republicans set up an America Speaking Out website. There, people can post comments on proposed policies, interact with other people across the nation, and share new ideas – no matter their political affiliation. These ideas and information will be incorporated with the Republican principles of smaller federal government, lower taxes, more government accountability, and family values to create real solutions that will help to solve the problems our country is currently facing and restore the broken bonds of trust between the American people and their elected leaders. “In my 50 annual town hall meetings, many of you have told me that you agree with my votes against the government takeover of health care and the bailouts, but ask me what my Republican colleagues stand for – not just against,” stated Lucas. “America Speaking Out gives you a chance to let me and my colleagues know what you want to see changed and to incorporate those ideas and opinions into a set of real solutions that will create a change that Americans actually want. I would like to encourage every Oklahoman – no matter you political affiliation – to visit America Speaking Out and let their voices be heard. This is your government, so we need your input to make it work for you.” To join in the nationwide effort, you can visit www.AmericaSpeakingOut.com. Although a set time has not yet been decided, the website will be in use for several months before the full agenda is announced. # # #
05.18.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas would like to congratulate Tyrone native Victor Keyes for his acceptance of appointment at the United States Air Force Academy. Keyes will be a member of the Air Force Academy class of 2014 and will begin classes there in the fall. “I would like to congratulate Victor on his selection to the United States Air Force Academy,” stated Lucas. “His selection is not only a testament to his hard work, but it also demonstrates what capable and determined students we have in the Third District of Oklahoma. This is a great opportunity for Victor, and I wish him luck this fall and continued success in all his endeavors.” In May, Keyes graduated from the Oklahoma School of Science and Math, located in Oklahoma City, where he played in the school’s band and is a member of the school’s student government. In addition, he played on an intramural soccer team at the school. His parents are Mark and Carolyn Keyes of Tyrone, Oklahoma. His grandparents are George Berntsen and the late Barbara Berntsen of El Reno, and the late Victor and Mary Keyes of Pampa, Texas. Four of our nation’s five service academies require a congressional nomination, including the Air Force Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Military Academy at West Point, and the Naval Academy. In order to receive a nomination, the student must be between the ages of 17 and 23 and a resident of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. Each academy offers young men and women a free college education at a highly-ranked nationally recognized academic program while preparing them for an officer’s commission in the armed forces once they graduate. For more information on service academy nominations, please visit Congressman Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations. # # #
05.18.2010	Washington, DC - U.S. Third District Congressman Frank Lucas congratulates Chickasha native Kyle Domnick on his recent promotion to legislative assistant in the congressman’s Washington D.C. office. Domnick’s legislative portfolio will include energy, judiciary, immigration, trade, Native American, environment, and agriculture issues for Congressman Lucas. “I am very pleased to promote Kyle to serve as one of my legislative assistant,” Lucas said. “As a member of my legislative staff, Kyle’s expertise on agriculture and energy issues will be very beneficial. Since beginning his new role earlier this month, Kyle has already proven to be a wonderful asset to my legislative staff and to the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District.” Prior to his new position in Congressman Lucas’ office, Domnick served as a staff assistant in the congressman’s D.C. office and also as an intern in the House Agriculture Committee, on which Lucas serves as the Ranking Member, and as an intern in Lucas’ Canadian County office. He graduated from Oklahoma State University last December with a Bachelors of Science in Animal Science. While at Oklahoma State, Domnick served as the national undergraduate chairman of Kappa Alpha Order. He also was selected as a Senior of Significance in the Animal Science Department and served as a teaching assistant in animal science classes. “As a native Oklahoman, it is an honor to work for an Oklahoma congressman, especially Congressman Lucas,” stated Domnick. “I look forward to serving Congressman Lucas in my new role as a legislative assistant and to helping the people of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District.” His parents are Kim and Carolyn Domnick from Shawnee, OK. His grandmother, Mary Fuller, hails from Columbia, SC. # # #
05.17.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas would like to congratulate Alva native Megan Garnett for winning the 2010 Congressional Art Contest. Megan’s piece, entitled “Grandpa Bob” is a pencil drawing of her grandfather, Robert Davison of Alva. “Megan has demonstrated at a young age what a talent she has for artwork,” stated Lucas. “The Congressional Art Contest not only gives students like Megan an opportunity to display their artwork to the millions of visitors who visit the U.S. Capitol each year, but it also demonstrates what talented students we have in the Third District of Oklahoma. I am proud to congratulate Megan on winning this year’s contest and I encourage her to continue her interest in art.” Megan Garnett is a freshman at Alva High School, where she plays on the golf team and is a member of the Key Club and the Art Club. Her drawing, “Grandpa Bob,” recently won Best of Show at the Oklahoma Youth Expo Art Show and hung in the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum in Oklahoma City in March of this year. Her parents are Debbie and Jerry Garnett of Alva, Oklahoma. Her grandparents are Robert and Jo Davison of Alva, Bonnie Garnett and the late W.G. Garnett of Alva, and the late Darrel and Laura Servis of Woodward. Her great-grandmother is Evelyn Whittaker of Woodward. The Congressional Art Contest, also known as “An Artistic Discovery,” is an annual nationwide competition sponsored by the Congressional Art Caucus. Members of Congress select one piece of art from submissions from high school students in their district. The winning piece will be hung in the Capitol Building for one year and the winning artist will receive a trip to Washington, D.C. to participate in the ribbon-cutting ceremony in June. } # # #
05.14.2010	Washington, DC - U.S. Third District Congressman Frank Lucas welcomes Dalhart, Texas native John Porter to his Washington, D.C. staff. Porter was hired to serve as Congressman Lucas’ staff assistant earlier this month. “I am very pleased to have John join my staff,” Lucas said. “As the Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Committee, his knowledge and education in the agriculture industry will be very beneficial. Since beginning in my office earlier this month, John has already proven to be a wonderful new asset to my staff and to the constituents of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District.” Prior to accepting his new position in Congressman Lucas’ office, Porter served as an assistant manager on the Porter Angus Ranch in Dalhart, Texas and also served as an intern for Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s (TX-05). He graduated from Texas A&M University last December with a Bachelor of Science in Animal Science. While at Texas A&M, Porter was active in the Central Baptist Men’s Bible Study and the school’s intramural football and basketball program “I am honored that Congressman Lucas selected me to serve as his staff assistant,” stated Porter. “I look forward to serving Congressman Lucas and the people of Oklahoma’s Third Congressional District in my new position.” Porter’s parents are Wayne and Edith Porter from Dalhart, Texas. His grandparents are Nevada Porter from Dalhart, Texas, and Mildred Chambers, from Rule, Texas. # # #
04.23.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas joined other members of the Oklahoma Delegation today to react to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) analysis that the recently passed health care legislation will result in higher premiums, lower reimbursement rates, and will force many Americans from their current health care plan breaking President Obama’s promise of ‘if you like it, you can keep it.’ U.S. Rep. Frank Lucas “Rather than taking the time to ensure a full analysis was completed on their government takeover of health care, Speaking Pelosi and President Obama shoved it through Congress on a partisan vote before the American people could truly learn its long-term effects on the cost and standard of health care they would receive under it. The report released by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) highlights what I and a majority of my fellow Americans repeatedly pointed out during the health care debate: that the bill would result in higher premiums, rationed health care, and would force many Americans from their current health care plans.” U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe “This report from President Obama’s own Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) confirms what those of us against the government takeover of health care feared. As a result of the passage of the Democrats socialized medicine measure, health care costs are expected to increase faster than they otherwise would have. This will have a negative impact on Oklahomans, especially the elderly and those living in rural portions of our state. The Democrat leadership in Congress rushed this through without regard for this type of information, and now Americans are faced with tax increases, premium increases, cost increases and an overall reduction in the quality of their care.” U.S. Rep. Tom Cole "This report validates all of Oklahomans' worst fears about ObamaCare. The president's own analysts have now verified that concerns about cost hikes, Medicare cuts, and doctor shortages aren't just slogans -- they're the new reality now that government-controlled health care is the law of the land. We knew from the start that claims like 'if you like your health care, you can keep it' were false, and now CMS has confirmed that 14 million people will likely lose their employer-provided coverage, not to mention all the seniors who will lose coverage when Medicare providers drop out of the program. It's a shame that President Obama and Speaker Pelosi didn't listen to the American people, who knew all along that this plan was a disaster." U.S. Rep. Mary Fallin “The report confirms what we feared all along. This misguided health care bill will increase costs on American families and businesses as they struggle to recover from the worst economic recession in a generation. It’s time to stop taxing and regulating families and businesses into the ground and provide them with the freedom and incentives they need to grow and prosper. That is why I support repealing the recently-passed health care bill and replacing it with cost-saving, market-based reforms that will increase consumer choices while driving down the excessive costs that have shut so many people out of our health care system in the past.” U.S. Rep. John Sullivan “As I have said from the start, higher premiums, higher taxes and cutting seniors Medicare is not reform. This Obama Administration report confirms that the new health care law clearly puts our nation on a path to bankruptcy, limits healthcare options for seniors and increases the price families and small businesses have to pay for the care they receive – this is exactly why I voted against it. As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health, I will lead the charge to repeal and replace Obamacare with real healthcare solutions that lower the price of healthcare, increase access to quality care, and allows patients to choose the healthcare plan that best fits their needs.” # # #
03.23.2010	Washington, DC - As the health care legislation is officially signed into law by President Obama, state governments and the American people begin to gear up for the implementation of the new legislation and what it might mean for the future. Many are concerned about the impact it will have on state budgets as states are forced to take on higher Medicaid costs. “One of my biggest concerns with this bill is the $20 billion in unfunded mandates- most of which would be paid for by states in the form of higher Medicaid costs,” stated Lucas. “According to the Oklahoma Health Care Authority’s estimates, once this bill is fully implemented by 2017, the State of Oklahoma would be saddled with an additional $92.7 million in new Medicaid costs alone. And these numbers assume there would not be a continued increase in the program, which is highly unlikely.” These new federal mandates come at a time when many states, including Oklahoma, are being forced to cut important programs already in their state budgets as they struggle through the current economic recession and decreased revenues. Although the legislation does not enact the new Medicaid requirements for three years, no one can be certain if the economy will have recovered by then. “For the 2010 fiscal year, the State of Oklahoma has required a 7.5 percent cut to all state agencies, which equals about $385.8 million in cuts to many important programs like our senior nutrition program,” stated Lucas. “It is unacceptable that the federal government will now mandate even more costs onto our states to enact a federal law that a majority of the American people oppose – 59 percent according to the most recent CNN poll. And this is just the tip of the iceberg. No one will be able to calculate the impact the new mandates will have on small businesses and the dramatic increase of participants in Medicaid when these businesses either fold or push their employees onto the federal plan.” Congressman Lucas joined every member of the Oklahoma delegation to oppose the trillion dollar government takeover of health care. Recently, the Oklahoma State House passed a resolution that would allow Oklahoma to opt out of the nationalized health care bill without fear of penalties or cutbacks to Medicaid. The Oklahoma State Senate is working on similar legislation. In addition, some state governments have announced they plan to challenge the new law in court. # # #
03.21.2010	Washington, DC - The House of Representatives is expected to vote on health care legislation Sunday night. Last year, both the House and the Senate passed their own versions of health care legislation. With the victory by Republican Scott Brown in Massachusetts, Senate Democrats no longer had the 60 vote majority needed to pass a compromise version of the two bills. For that reason, Speaker Pelosi and her leadership team decided to force the House to vote on the Senate-passed version of the bill and then attempt to rewrite the Senate-passed bill by offering “corrections” through budget reconciliation as established in the Budget Act of 1974. Congressman Lucas will oppose both pieces of legislation. His statement is below: “This is a flawed bill, and if successful will be a flawed law,” stated Lucas. “As this country continues to suffer through an economic recession, the Speaker and the White House have decided, rather than focusing on creating jobs and easing the American family’s tax burden, they should cram a trillion dollar government takeover of health care through Congress that includes $20 billion in unfunded mandates, $500 billion in new taxes, and a variety of fees and taxes on American businesses. “This bill is extremely unpopular with the American people, who have strongly voiced their opposition to this legislation over the last year. I am dismayed by the audacity of the Democratic leadership and their attempt to bypass the American people and subvert the will of the majority. “Change is needed within our health care system. We can all agree on that. But this bill is simply not the answer. In an effort to pass a health care bill – any bill – this Congress has lost its way. The American people deserve better than a 2,700 page trillion dollar government takeover of our health care system, and as their representatives in Congress it’s time we did just that,” stated Lucas. # # #
02.26.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas has joined his colleagues in Oklahoma’s House delegation to introduce H.Res.1110, a resolution to honor the Oklahoma National Guard’s Agricultural Development Teams and commend members of the 45th Agri-Business Development Team for their efforts to modernize agriculture and sustainable farming practices in Afghanistan. The resolution also recognizes their dedication and their service to our nation. “Oklahoma has historically been a leader in the agriculture industry, and that remains true today through the hard work of the Agri-Business Development Team of the Oklahoma National Guard and their efforts to strengthen agriculture development in Afghanistan,” stated Lucas. “I am proud to join my fellow colleagues from Oklahoma to honor their dedication and their invaluable contribution to the people of Afghanistan.” In December 2009, the Oklahoma National Guard deployed a 64-member Agricultural Development Team (ADT) to eastern Afghanistan. The ADT, which is currently stationed in Wizah, is working closely with the Provincial Director of Agriculture and Afghan farmers and ranchers to modernize agriculture and sustainable farming practices. In August, the Oklahoma National Guard will deploy a second ADT to replace the first team’s effort in the region. “I am incredibly proud of the job the Oklahoma National Guard is doing in Afghanistan,” Fallin said. “It is a true testament to the skills and efforts of our men and women in uniform to provide such an important advisory role to the Afghan people. The Guard’s partnership with Oklahoma State University demonstrates the assets the state of Oklahoma can provide to ongoing operations in the Middle East.” “With their diligence and expertise, members of the 45th Agri-Business Development Team have made an invaluable contribution to our mission overseas,” said Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04). “By using their skills to bring stability to Afghanistan, these Oklahomans contribute tremendously to our security here at home. I join all Oklahomans in thanking them for their courage and commitment.” Congressman John Sullivan (OK-01) said, “I am proud to join my colleagues in the Oklahoma delegation in honoring the 45th Agri-Business Development Team of the Oklahoma National Guard. Our state has a proud agricultural history, and I am confident that the knowledge and expertise of our National Guard members will improve the health and lives of the Afghan people. I commend the hard work of the 45th ADT, wish them a successful mission and look forward to their safe return home.” “The 45th Agri-Business Development Team’s work is critical to improving the lives of the citizens of Afghanistan,” Congressman Dan Boren (OK-02) said. “The team’s work will provide the Afghanis with the tools necessary to establishing a sustainable means to provide for themselves and their families long after military operations have been completed. These Oklahomans bring honor to Oklahoma’s National Guard and I am pleased to join my colleagues in recognizing their efforts.” A copy of the resolution can be found here. # # #
02.04.2010	Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation to increase this country’s national debt limit by $1.9 trillion. The legislation, once signed into law by President Obama, will increase our national debt limit from $12.3 trillion to $14.294 trillion, allowing the federal government to accumulate debt approximately equal to the size of the overall U.S. economy. Lucas opposed this legislation. “Fourteen trillion dollars. It is an amazing amount of money,” stated Lucas. “And even after the president promised the American people that the national debt would be a top priority for him, the White House and Speaker Pelosi have done nothing to address our continually expanding debt.” This latest increase will not be enough to cover President Obama’s latest budget proposal for fiscal year 2011 and the debt limit will need to be raised again before October 1, 2011. It is expected that the public debt will reach $9.3 trillion, which is almost 64 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). European Union countries, not known for their fiscal discipline, are required to keep their debt levels below 60 percent of their GDP. “We simply cannot continue down this path of out of control spending and borrowing,” stated Lucas. “Growing our debt to the size of our economy is fiscally irresponsible and leaves our children and grandchildren with massive debt.” Since 2007, the debt limit has been increased by $5.33 trillion, which averages to an increase of $17,268 for every man, woman, and child, or an increase of $121,982 per household. This was the sixth time the debt limit has been raised since 2007 and follows two other debt limit increases in the last 12 months totaling $1.079 trillion. # # #
02.04.2010	Washington, DC - WASHINGTON, D.C. – Members of the Oklahoma House Delegation today introduced H. Res. 1052, a resolution honoring the service members of Oklahoma’s Army National Guard and Air National. All five members of the Oklahoma House Delegation have signed onto the resolution as original sponsors. Specifically, the resolution expresses gratitude to the members of the Oklahoma Guard and their families for their service and sacrifice on behalf of the U.S., since September 11, 2001; and recognizes them as invaluable to the national security of the United States, vital to defending against threats both foreign and domestic, and essential for responding to State and national emergencies. U.S. Rep. Frank Lucas“I am proud to join my colleagues from Oklahoma to honor the brave men and women who serve in the Army and Air National Guard of Oklahoma. They are an invaluable addition to our Oklahoma community and their service and sacrifice will not soon be forgotten.” U.S. Rep. Dan Boren“I am honored to join the Oklahoma House delegation to recognize the Oklahoma National Guard for their service and sacrifice since September 11, 2001. During this time, the Guard has deployed on numerous fronts, ranging from the deserts of the Middle East for Operation Iraq Freedom and the mountains of Afghanistan for Operation Enduring Freedom to the Gulf of Mexico states that were battered by Hurricane’s Katrina and Rita. Whether deployed abroad fighting terrorism or providing relief here at home, they have brought honor to Oklahoma. As members of the 45th Infantry Brigade Combat Team prepare for a possible deployment to Afghanistan in 2011, this resolution is just one of the ways we can honor the continued service and sacrifice they have made and that their families have made.” U.S. Rep. Tom Cole“Oklahoma's Army National Guard and Air National Guard members keep us safe every day. Our National Guard units are an integral part of America's defense, serving in harm's way overseas and providing vital support here at home. We should be proud of Oklahoma's contribution to our national security and grateful to service members and their families for their sacrifices.” U.S. Rep. Mary Fallin“Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the Oklahoma National Guard has gone above and beyond to support overseas operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and have kept Oklahomans safe and secure at home. It is an honor to join my colleagues in the Oklahoma Congressional Delegation in acknowledging the hard work and sacrifices made by the Oklahoma National Guard and our uniformed men and women from all over the state. Their services are invaluable to the safety, security and well being of both our state and nation and I am proud to call these brave men and women fellow Oklahomans.” U.S. Rep. John Sullivan“I am proud to join my colleagues in the Oklahoma delegation in paying tribute to the brave men and women who serve our country as members of the Oklahoma Army National Guard and Air National Guard. These citizen soldiers and airmen represent the best of our state, and all Oklahomans can be grateful for their service, sacrifice and dedication to defending the very freedoms we enjoy as American citizens. Their contribution to the war on terrorism has made our nation realize the vital role they play in keeping us safe and eliminating global terror. May God continue to bless our trips both home and abroad.” # # #
01.27.2010	Washington, DC - Today, President Barack Obama gave his first State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress a little over a year after taking office. As the American economy continues to suffer and the unemployment rate hovers at 10 percent, he spent much of the address discussing his economic agenda, but also discussed his health care plan and the war on terror. Below is Congressman Frank Lucas’ response to the president’s address. “I was pleased to see President Obama chose to focus much of his first State of the Union address on our country’s ailing economy. Although Oklahoma has fared better than the rest of the nation, much of our country is suffering through our current economic troubles and it is time that we concentrate on improving our economy, creating jobs, and reducing Americans’ tax burden rather than a trillion-dollar government takeover of our health care system or a $600 billion energy tax. “However, many of the proposals he announced tonight appear to be in direct contrast with each other. For example, he proposed a three year freeze on all discretionary, non-defense spending while also proposing a 6.2 percent increase in education funding and promoting his estimated $800 bill to $1.2 trillion government takeover of health care. “The president has a long way to go from here. Many Americans are still waiting for the ‘hope and change’ he promised during his campaign and most of his supporters are still waiting for him to accomplish a single one of his big agenda items. Over the last few months with the elections in Virginia, New Jersey, and most recently Massachusetts, the American people have spoken loud and clear – they are not happy with the direction the president has been headed. Let’s hope he actually listens to them this time.” To download a video of the congressman’s statement, please visit https://www.gop.gov/resources/library/members/ok/03/1-27-10.wmv. It will also available on the congressman’s YouTube page at www.youtube.com/repfranklucas. # # #
12.04.2009	Washington, DC - Below, Congressman Frank Lucas comments on the most recent unemployment numbers released by the U.S. Department of Labor. In the month of November, 11,000 Americans lost their job, putting the unemployment rate at 10 percent and increasing the number of jobless Americans to 15.4 million. Last month, the unemployment rate rose to 10.2 percent – the highest it has been in 26 years. The November unemployment rate in Oklahoma has yet to be released, but October’s unemployment rate in Oklahoma topped seven percent. “As this country’s unemployment rate continues to hover at 10 percent, Speaker Pelosi and her leadership team remain on their path of spend and tax – with little regard for those Americans suffering through these hard economic times. And while the White House continues to claim their so-called stimulus package ‘saved or created’ hundreds of thousands of jobs, more than three million private sector jobs have actually been lost since the stimulus was signed into law. “Oklahoma has fared better than much of the rest of the country, especially those states on the East and West coasts. However unemployment in the state continues to rise and the issue weighs heavily on every Oklahoman’s mind. “It’s time for this Congress to get serious about developing real solutions to our unemployment rate. Raising taxes, increasing federal spending to unprecedented levels, and borrowing against our children’s and grandchildren’s futures is not the answer. We need to work together to encourage economic growth by providing incentives for small businesses, by lowering taxes for American families, and by returning Washington to fiscally responsible behavior.” # # #
12.01.2009	Washington, DC - After months of speculation and closed-door meetings, President Obama announced he would send an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan. This comes after a request by General McChrystal in September to add an additional 40,000 troops to the region. According to McChrystal, “failure to gain he initiative and reverse insurgent momentum in the near term (12 months)…risks an outcome where defeating the insurgency is no longer possible.” Below is Congressman Lucas’ reaction to the president’s speech. “After almost three months of waiting, I was pleased to hear that President Obama has finally made a decision on the recommendation of General McChrystal to send additional troops to Afghanistan. And while his decision to send 30,000 additional troops to Afghanistan does not fully reflect General McChrystal’s request for 40,000 troops, it does show a willingness to listen to the recommendations of his commanders in the field. “I agree with General McChrystal when he said, ‘while the situation is serious, success is still achievable.’ We must not allow the Taliban, al Qaeda, or any other terrorist organization to continue to use this region as a safe haven. The disruption of terrorist activities is essential to ensuring stability in the region, global security, and the safety of every American.” This new deployment, along with the 22,000 additional troops President Obama authorized earlier this year will bring the total U.S. forces in Afghanistan to more than 100,000. # # #
11.07.2009	Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives voted on and passed H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. The bill, drafted without committee hearings or markups behind closed doors by Speaker Pelosi and a limited number of her leadership team, passed in the House by a vote of 220-215. “I am very discouraged by the House of Representative’s passage of Speaker Pelosi’s government run health care legislation,” stated Lucas. “Over the last several months, millions of Americans have expressed their strong opposition to this legislation. Yet Speaker Pelosi and her leadership team have once again ignored the will of the people and forced this trillion dollar government takeover of our health care system on them.” This controversial bill, clocking in at 2,032 pages with an estimated price tag of $1.2 trillion over ten years, will establish a public option, also known as government run health care. It includes more than $700 billion in new taxes on American families and small businesses and creates 111 additional offices, bureaus, commissions, and federal bureaucracies. In addition, it expands the eligibility of Medicaid to families of four making up to $88,200 per year. While the federal government pays for a majority of Medicaid, states are saddled with the remaining costs. A mandated increase in Medicaid costs for states will force states to reallocate funds for current projects and raise state taxes. “With the passage of this bill, the federal government will become the dominant force behind our health care system, putting bureaucrats in Washington between patients and their doctors,” stated Lucas. “I will continue to oppose any health care plan that includes a government takeover of our health care system, that burdens our states with additional fees and bureaucracy, and that saddles our future generations with trillions of dollars of debt.” The Senate also has a version of health care reform, but Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has yet to say when or if they would vote on it. # # #
11.06.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Frank Lucas met with Garry Bull, a third year medical student attending Oklahoma State University’s College of Osteopathic Medicine in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Mr. Bull made the long trip to Washington, D.C. to join the thousands of Americans who attended yesterday’s rally to express their opposition to Speaker Pelosi’s health care bill. “Today, I had the opportunity to meet with Mr. Garry Bull and discuss the health care legislation currently before Congress,” stated Lucas. “As a medical student, his insight into the issue was very interesting. Like many of my constituents, Mr. Bull is strongly opposed to Speaker Pelosi’s government run health care plan. I join him in that opposition and will vote against the bill when it comes up for a vote. I thank him for taking time to visit with me.” Mr. Bull and Congressman Lucas discussed the negative impact Speaker Pelosi’s bill would have on the medical industry in Oklahoma as well as across the country. In addition, Mr. Bull brought well-wishes and prayers from the members of his church, who sent their thanks to Congressman Lucas for his continued opposition to Speaker Pelosi’s federal government takeover of health care. “In addition to being a medical student, I am also a father, a veteran, and an American” stated Bull. “Everyone wants to improve our health care system, but simply put, this is not the way. Even if you put all of the issues aside, our country cannot afford this legislation. When I think of this bill, I think of my two beautiful little girls and the massive debt we are trying to strap to them, and it outrages me.” Mr. Bull, who originally hails from Weatherford, Oklahoma, is the father of two girls. In addition, he is a First Lieutenant in the Oklahoma Army National Guard and is a veteran of the United States Navy. For more photos of yesterday’s rally against government run health care, please visit Congressman Frank Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/photo-galleries. # # #
11.05.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Frank Lucas joined congressional colleagues and thousands of Americans to protest Speaker Pelosi’s government run health care bill. Although reports have varied, the Speaker has announced that she hopes to vote on the bill Saturday evening. The 1,990 page bill has a preliminary score by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office of $1.055 billion over the next ten years. “I am proud to have joined my colleagues and thousands of Americans to express our opposition to Speaker Pelosi’s trillion dollar federal government takeover of our health care system. “This grassroots effort, started by the TEA party activists earlier this year, has swept the nation and is continuing to have a resounding affect on legislation before Congress. As a vote on Pelosi’s health care bill draws closer, today’s protest demonstrates that the American people continue to be overwhelmingly opposed to government run health care. “I want to encourage all Americans to join grassroots efforts like the demonstration today to express their opinion and to let their congressional leaders know where they stand on health care. I will continue to oppose any health care plan that includes a government takeover of our health care system, that burdens our states with additional fees and bureaucracy, and that saddles our future generations with trillions of dollars of debt.” For photos of today’s event, please visit Congressman Frank Lucas’ website at https://lucas.house.gov/photo-galleries. # # #
10.29.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Frank Lucas spoke out against Speaker Pelosi’s latest health care bill. H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, was unveiled today by the Speaker and members of her leadership team. “While Speaker Pelosi may call her latest attempt at health care legislation a ‘compromise,’ it is actually just another piece of legislation that will force government-run health care on the American people,” stated Lucas. “Once again, the majority leadership in the House has decided to ignore the will of the people and force a trillion-dollar government takeover of our health care system that will raise taxes, cut benefits for seniors, and lower the standard of health care in this country.” The plan includes a so-called “public option,” known by most as government-run health care. The “public option” has been very controversial and a majority of Americans do not support it. In addition, this plan will expand Medicaid to cover anyone who makes less than 150 percent of the federal poverty level. While the federal government pays for a large portion of Medicaid, the program forces states to pay the remaining costs – meaning the Speaker’s plan will require states to raise taxes and shift their spending priorities in order to comply with this latest federal government mandate. “This immense 1,990 -paged bill is no different than the Speaker’s original legislation,” stated Lucas. “During the town hall meetings I held in July and August, the people of the Third District made it very clear to me that they were opposed to any form of government-run health care. I will continue to oppose any health care plan that includes a government takeover of our health care system, that burdens our states with additional fees and bureaucracy, and that saddles our future generations with trillions of dollars of debt.” Speaker Pelosi announced that she would like to see a vote on the bill by next week. The Congressional Budget Office, a nonpartisan accounting office, has yet to score the bill, however Speaker Pelosi has announced that by her calculations the bill will cost approximately $900 billion over the next ten years. # # #
10.09.2009	Washington, DC - The Oklahoma Congressional delegation today reacted to an explanation provided by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) for a letter the department sent to the state of Oklahoma in April threatening to pull federal funds if the state passed its amendment making English the official language of the state. This week, the Congressional delegation received the Justice Department’s response to an inquiry the delegation sent in July requesting clarification of the DOJ’s original April letter. The response from DOJ noted this was the first time Justice had sent a letter to a state regarding a state’s pending English-only legislation. The explanation further states the Department learned of the Oklahoma Constitutional amendment through media reports and says, “Please be assured that voter approval next year of Oklahoma’s official English amendment would not affect the state’s eligibility for federal financial assistance from the Department.” Rep. Frank Lucas (R-OK-3) stated, “I thank the Department of Justice for their response and am encouraged by their statement that if this bill is approved, it will not affect Oklahoma’s eligibility for federal assistance. Oklahoma voters should be able to make decisions about their state without interference or threats from the federal government, especially while that law is still being debated.” “I am pleased that the Justice Department has backed off its threat over Oklahoma’s proposed English-only constitutional amendment,” U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) said. “It was unprecedented and improper for the federal agency to send such a letter to the state while the proposed amendment was still being debated. The threat to withhold funding by the Justice Department is further evidence of a runaway federal government improperly attempting to constrain state action. This is an issue that should be decided by the voters in our state without undue influence from Washington.” Rep. Mary Fallin (R-OK-5) commented, “I am pleased this issue was resolved at the state level, as it rightfully should have been. It was inappropriate for the Department of Justice to try and interfere with the debate on this issue by attempting to influence Oklahoma voters.” Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK-4) added, “I am pleased to see that the Department of Justice has recognized that the initiative complies with all applicable federal laws and that this matter will now be decided by the citizens of Oklahoma.” Rep. John Sullivan (R-OK-1) said, “After reviewing the letter from the Department of Justice, I am reassured that the people of Oklahoma can vote on the English Language amendment without the fear of the federal government eliminating our financial assistance. As a firm believer in states’ rights for Oklahoma, It is important that the people of Oklahoma are free to make this choice without threats from their own federal government.” BACKGROUNDOn April 14, 2009, during the state’s debate over the pending English-only state constitutional amendment, the U.S. Department of Justice sent a letter to Oklahoma Attorney General Drew Edmondson warning, “Many state, county, and local jurisdictions receive, either directly or indirectly, federal financial assistance from the Department of Justice (DOJ) or other federal agencies. As you know, recipients of federal financial assistance must comply with various civil rights statutes including Title VI of the Civil Rights of 1964…which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, and national origin. Under DOJ regulations implementing Title VI, recipients of federal financial assistance have a responsibility to ensure meaningful access to their programs and activities by LEP [limited English proficient] Persons.” The Justice letter prompted Edmondson to send state officials a letter on April 21, 2009, saying “the DOJ is in effect warning our state about the possible federal consequences should these proposals pass.” When the Oklahoma Congressional Delegation learned of this intrusion into Oklahoma affairs by the U.S. Justice Department, the members sent U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder a letter seeking explanation for what the delegation believed was an overreaching violation of the state’s rights. # # #
07.28.2009	Washington, DC - Members of the Oklahoma Congressional Delegation today sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder seeking justification and clarification for a letter the Department of Justice (DOJ) sent to Oklahoma Attorney General Drew Edmondson threatening Oklahoma with a loss of federal funding if the state passed a constitutional amendment making English the official language of the state. The original DOJ letter, characterized by delegation members as dubiously timed at the peak of legislative debate, advises the state that “implementation of this [English-only] amendment may conflict with Oklahoma’s obligations to protect the civil rights of limited English proficient (LEP) persons.” Dated April 14, 2009 from Acting Assistant Attorney General Loretta King, the DOJ letter states, “As you know, recipients of federal financial assistance must comply with various civil rights statutes, including Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964…which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, and national origin.” The letter continues, “State agencies and other entities in Oklahoma that receive federal financial assistance thus would be precluded by federal law from abiding by an English-only requirement where it conflicts with their obligations under Title VI.” The Oklahoma Congressional Delegation’s letter to Holder points out that several other states have passed similar legislation and asks if they too have been “accused by the Department of Justice to be in violation with Title VI, or formally threatened with funding termination.” The delegation letter asks for an explanation for what prompted the DOJ to write the state of Oklahoma on this issue and seeks explanation for what funds would be eliminated should Oklahomans pass the English only amendment. U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe stated, “This nation’s cultural diversity is one that contributes to the greatness of our country. I support the state’s effort to pass a constitutional amendment making English the official language of the state because it ultimately facilitates better communication across the many lines of diversity within our state. The state legislature has overwhelmingly passed this amendment, and now it is up to the voters of Oklahoma to decide if they wish to accept it. It is entirely unacceptable for the federal government to try to strong arm the state by threatening to remove federal funding. I look forward to hearing the Justice Department’s explanation for such behavior.” Senator Tom Coburn, M.D. said, “Secretary Holder owes the residents of Oklahoma an explanation as to why this thinly veiled threat was issued to Oklahoma on a state matter. The last thing Oklahoma needs is a bureaucrat in Washington dictating more of what we can and cannot do. Officials at the Department of Justice should focus on more pressing matters under their jurisdiction before issuing statements about a state issue that has yet to become law.” Rep. Dan Boren said, “The state of Oklahoma deserves a clear explanation of why it seems the Department of Justice has singled out the state and threatened funding retribution over a State Legislature initiative that has been approved in other states already. I join my colleagues in urging the Department to give us a full account of their actions on this issue.” Rep. John Sullivan said, “It is inappropriate for the United States Department of Justice to interfere in what is ultimately a state matter. In 2010, voters in Oklahoma will decide if the state constitution will be amended to make English the official language of the state and I proudly stand with the rest of the state delegation in supporting Oklahoma’s right to decide this issue.” Rep. Frank Lucas added, “Our country benefits from the diversity of our people. However, throughout our history, it has been our common language that binds us as one nation. In order for new immigrants to our country to be successful and realize the American Dream, they must be able to speak the English language. Punishing the state of Oklahoma for encouraging that is unnecessary.” Rep. Mary Fallin said, “This incident should send shock waves through every state in the union. The letter from DOJ is an affront to Oklahoma’s tenth amendment rights under the Constitution. We should be allowed to pursue this policy without facing preemptive manipulation from the federal government.” # # #
07.23.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Caddo, Washita, Kiowa, Greer, Harmon, and Jackson counties. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. August 6, 20099:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.HINTON TOWN HALL MEETINGFire Department, Community Room115 East Main Street 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 9.m.ANADARKO TOWN HALL MEETINGAnadarko City Hall501 West Virginia 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.HOBART TOWN HALL MEETINGWestern Technology Center, Seminar Room1000 South Bailey Street 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.ALTUS TOWN HALL MEETINGWestern Oklahoma State College, Room H-92801 North Main August 7, 200911:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.HOLLIS TOWN HALL MEETINGHollis Civic Center208 West Jones 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m.MANGUM TOWN HALL MEETINGMangum Brick Co., Conference Room2316 North Louis Tittle 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.CORDELL TOWN HALL MEETINGCordell Police Dept., Community Room105 West Main Street # # #
06.17.2009	Washington, DC - While visiting Florida for their senior trip, students of Cheyenne High School were able to visit the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) at their Cape Kennedy facilities. There, they participated in a rare, behind-the-scenes tour of the facility including the shuttle launch pad. Congressman Frank Lucas, being one of the parents on the trip, was also able to attend the tour. “As a member of the House Science Committee’s Space Subcommittee, I was thrilled to participate in this rare tour,” stated Lucas. “It was very educational and I think the seniors enjoyed it.” The students were also able to tour the Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB), the third largest building the world, and see the next generation launch vehicle, the Ares 1-x. In addition, they were able to walk underneath a shuttle while touring the Orbiter Processing Facility, giving them a very close-up view of the shuttle. “This was a once-in-a-lifetime experience for many of the students,” stated Lucas. “While we were walking under the shuttle, you could see how amazing this huge machine really is. It was remarkable.” Congressman Lucas began serving on the House Science Committee during the 106th Congress. # # #
06.16.2009	Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 2346, the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009. This bill passed the House last month with strong bipartisan support, but the Senate and the conference committee made several controversial adjustments to this current version, including an additional $5 billion for the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and a clause that would allow detainees housed in Guantanamo Bay to come to the United States. “Rather than focusing on troop funding as this bill is meant to do, Speaker Pelosi and President Obama are using it as a means to establish an unpopular $5 billion international bailout to the IMF,” stated Lucas. “Our national debt is currently more than $11 trillion. Instead of working to pay that money back, Speaker Pelosi and President Obama are asking the American people to borrow an additional $5 billion from countries like China in order to loan it to the IMF. It’s completely irresponsible to loan money to other countries while we can’t pay our own outstanding debt and should in no way be included in a troop funding bill.” The total cost of the bill is $105.8 billion, and also includes $1 billion for the “cash for clunkers” program which provides vouchers for people who purchase a more fuel efficient vehicle after trading in their old one. Overall, approximately 25 percent of this ‘troop funding’ bill, more than $28.7 billion, will be used for non-war spending. “It’s outrageous that Speaker Pelosi and President Obama would use a troop funding bill to strong-arm Congress into allowing terrorists into America after the American people have clearly voiced their opposition to the idea,” stated Lucas. “This bill easily passed the House with bipartisan support in May, but Speaker Pelosi and President Obama are using this important troop funding bill to play political games and pass extremely controversial aspects of their agenda- all at the expense of our men and women in uniform. We must get this funding to our troops as soon as possible, without it costing the American taxpayer billions more for international bailout and without bringing terrorists to American soil.” Congressman Lucas opposed the bill. # # #
06.12.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce upcoming town hall meetings to be held in Lincoln, Payne, and Logan counties. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. June 30, 2009 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m.GUTHRIE TOWN HALL MEETINGGuthrie City Hall, Council Chambers Room101 North 2nd Street 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.CUSHING TOWN HALL MEETINGCushing City Hall, Commissioners Room100 Judy Adams Boulevard 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m.PERKINS TOWN HALL MEETINGPerkins VFW801 South Sadler 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.STILLWATER TOWN HALL MEETINGStillwater Community Center815 West 8th Street July 1, 2009 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.MEEKER TOWN HALL MEETINGMeeker City Hall, Meeting Room510 West Carl Hubbell 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.PRAGUE TOWN HALL MEETINGPrague City Hall, Council Room820 North Jim Thorpe 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m.STROUD TOWN HALL MEETINGStroud City Hall, City Council Chambers Room220 West 2nd Street 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.CHANDLER TOWN HALL MEETINGChandler City Hall, Council Room414 Manvel Street # # #
06.11.2009	Washington, DC - Today, the Oklahoma Congressional Delegation stressed their desire to allow locals to return to work at Vance Air Force Base and for CSC and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW) to begin broader negotiations in earnest. Leading the delegation in this effort, U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe said, “I am concerned for the local workers that will begin to feel the financial pinch if their pay checks do not resume. During these difficult economic times, I understand that increasing health costs and pay increases are especially important issues. I am concerned about the entire community of Enid who will also be impacted by the strike. While I was in Enid last Sunday night, I heard legitimate concerns from both sides of the table. None of the issues I heard were impassable. If the negotiations are taken out of the hands of outsiders and given to Gary Richardson and Jerry McCune, I believe we’d get Vance back flying again. Inhofe continued, “Because of the strike, damage has already been done that will make saving Vance in the future more difficult. However, that damage can be minimized if workers are allowed to return to work under the offer of a 30-day bridge contract with the assurance by both CSC and IAMAW that negotiations will resume. It is vital that work resume before classes of pilots are shipped off to other training venues.” “Vance Air Force Base has been a leader in training American pilots and, especially during a time of war, it would be devastating to see this mission transferred out of Oklahoma. It is critical to the Air Force and the town of Enid that an acceptable solution to this labor dispute is reached soon. It is my hope and belief that the parties involved will do what is right as quickly as possible,” said Senator Tom Coburn, M.D. Congressman Frank Lucas commented, “The current labor dispute at Vance Air Force Base continues to be hard on the economy of Enid and on the families stationed there. In addition, I am very concerned about the long term effects this strike may have on the future of Vance as well as the entire community of Enid. In the past, Vance has served as a model for how a successful base can thrive. I encourage all parties involved in negotiations to come to a fair compromise that will get the planes back in the air as quickly as possible.” Congresswoman Mary Fallin said, “As I told both parties this weekend, it is extremely important for this dispute to be resolved as quickly as possible. Vance Air Force Base is an important part of our national pilot training and plays an absolutely vital role in the health of the surrounding community. Keeping our planes grounded is threatening the future of this base as well as the economic security of its employees and the men and women of Enid. A 30 day bridge contract will allow us to get Vance up and running while the CSC and IAMAW work out a more permanent settlement.” Congressman Dan Boren added, “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I believe that the longer this drags on the more it harms everyone involved. A resolution can only be reached if all parties come to the table in a constructive and reasonable manner. The employees, the base, and the community of Enid all greatly depend upon each other for the success of this negotiation, just as they do at any other time. I thank Senator Inhofe and Congressman Lucas for their leadership on this issue and I look forward to working with the Delegation to facilitate an amenable solution for all involved.” Congressman Tom Cole stated, "The Vance Air Force Base needs to be positioned for long-term success - this means continuing the negotiations and sorting through the concerns of both parties so that an agreement can be reached. In the interim, the union should proceed responsibly and allow local workers to go back to work. Given the economic downturn, it is critically important for those workers to receive paychecks so that they can care for their families. Our state has never experienced a base closure. Our top priority should be to make sure that Vance remains open and active." # # #
06.10.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Lucas joins his colleagues to support the American Energy Act, an all-of-the-above solution for energy independence for this country. The American Energy Act was introduced today by the members of the American Energy Solutions Group and will be submitted for consideration sometime later this week. “The American Energy Act is exactly what the American people are looking for when it comes to comprehensive energy legislation,” stated Lucas. “This bill will provide long-term solutions to our country’s energy problems by encouraging the production of all forms of American energy, including nuclear, clean-coal technology, wind and solar power, and traditional forms of energy.” The American Energy Act will increase this country’s current domestic supply of energy by lifting drilling restrictions on ANWR, the Outer Continental Shelf, and oil shale in the Mountain West. It will promote clean energy sources by providing for new nuclear energy facilities, by investing in research and development of alternative energies, and by extending tax incentives for wind and solar power. In addition, it promotes renewable energy and conservation by extending tax incentives for energy efficiency and rewarding the development of greater conservation techniques. “While the American Energy Act will promote job creation by expanding all forms of American produced energy and will lower energy costs in this country, President Obama, Speaker Pelosi, and Chairman Waxman’s ‘cap-and-tax’ plan will institute an almost trillion-dollar national energy tax that will cost every American family who is currently suffering through this economic recession,” stated Lucas. “The American Energy Act will provide affordable energy, work towards energy independence, and promote a cleaner environment. All without the trillion dollar price tag of President Obama’s plan.” The Waxman-Markey energy bill, which includes the national energy tax known as cap-and-trade, continues to be under consideration in the House. The House Agriculture Committee, of which Lucas is the Ranking Member, will hold a hearing tomorrow on the impact cap-and-trade will have on rural America. The hearing will include testimony from Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. # # #
05.21.2009	Washington, DC - This week, Congressman Frank Lucas joined many of his colleagues to support H.R. 2300, the American Energy Innovation Act. The American Energy Innovation Act was introduced in response to the Waxman-Markey energy legislation, currently being considered by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which would institute a national energy tax through the cap-and-trade provision. “As President Obama and Speaker Pelosi work to institute the largest national energy tax in our country’s history, I have been working closely with my colleagues to offer a better alternative,” stated Lucas. “This comprehensive legislation will work to lessen our dependency on foreign oil, create American jobs, and promote energy efficiency.” The American Energy Innovation Act creates a fiscally responsible approach to reducing our dependence on foreign oil by using all forms of energy available in this country. It will encourage innovation in renewable fuels, promote conservation of energy, and increase the production of all forms of American made energy. “There is not one simple answer to solving this country’s energy problem,” stated Lucas. “That is why we need an all-of-the-above solution. The American Energy Innovation Act will ensure that we develop all forms of American-made energy while encouraging conservation without levying a massive energy tax on the American people.” The legislation has been referred to the House Ways and Means Committee, the House Natural Resources Committee, the House Energy and Commerce Committee, the House Science and Technology Committee, the House Rules Committee, and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. It was introduced by Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01). No hearings or markups have been set. # # #
05.07.2009	Washington, DC - Yesterday, the Woodward Tourism and Convention Bureau announced that President George W. Bush would speak at the dedication of the Crystal Beach Park during the “Let Freedom Ring 2009” celebration being held on July 4th. The celebration will mark the 80th anniversary of Crystal Beach Park. Congressman Frank Lucas: “I am excited that President Bush has selected Woodward as the place to celebrate his Fourth of July holiday. Crystal Beach Park is a landmark in Woodward. The recent renovations it has undergone have made it even more of a treasure to the city. I am sure that President Bush will enjoy the warm hospitality of Woodward this Fourth of July. This is a wonderful opportunity for the rest of the country to see all the amazing features of Woodward and Northwestern Oklahoma.” Senator Jim Inhofe: “I am proud that President Bush has chosen the city of Woodward to spend the Fourth of July. Woodward exemplifies the promising economic growth and achievements many of the communities in Oklahoma have had in recent years. I am sure the former President will agree that it's a great place to spend this holiday.” # # #
05.06.2009	Washington, DC - Tomorrow, May 7, 2009 marks the annual observance of the National Day of Prayer. Created in 1952 by a joint resolution of Congress, the National Day of Prayer invites people of all faiths to pray for the United States of America. Below is Congressman Lucas’ statement on the celebration. “Setting aside one day a year to acknowledge the importance of prayer is a wonderful way to celebrate our faith. I applaud the National Day of Prayer’s task force and their hard work in this worthy endeavor. In Oklahoma, we know that prayer plays a pivotal role in our every day lives and strive to celebrate each and every day as a national day of prayer. As I continue to ensure that Oklahoma’s values are represented in Congress, I am proud to know that our faith remains the backbone of our great state.” # # #
04.30.2009	Washington, DC - This week, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1913 the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009. The legislation would expand the current definition of “hate crime” to include any violent crime based on the victim’s sexual orientation or gender identity, making it a federal crime and removing jurisdiction from state and local authorities. Congressman Lucas voted against the bill. “Every violent crime is unacceptable, no matter the motive,” stated Lucas. “By passing this ‘hate crimes’ legislation, the House of Representatives said today that the basis of our judicial system- equal justice under the law- no longer applies. In addition to being vague and duplicative, the legislation will most likely serve little purpose because motivation of violent crimes is usually unknown. For example, in 2007, of the approximately 17,000 homicides, only nine were determined to be motivated by bias. The bill also raises the possibility that religions leaders or members of religious groups could be subject to a federal criminal investigation. “This law threatens our First Amendment right of free speech and opens our religious leaders up to federal prosecution based on their speech or activities,” stated Lucas. “This is just one more example of Speaker Pelosi and her leadership team forcing their liberal agenda on to the American people.” The bill passed the House on April 29, 2009 by a party-line vote of 249-175. It will now be considered by the Senate. A companion measure was also introduced in the Senate by Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA). # # #
04.28.2009	Washington, DC - Tomorrow marks President Obama’s first one hundred days in office. Below are Congressman Lucas’ comments on the President’s first one hundred days in office. “Rather than following through with his campaign promise of “hope and change,” the President has used his first hundred days to establish a fiscal agenda of “borrow and spend.” From bailouts for irresponsible banks on the east and west coast to the $787 billion economic ‘stimulus’ package, the President’s spending spree has raised this country’s national debt over $600 billion since he took office. And it appears there is no end in sight. He has proposed, and Speaker Pelosi and her leadership team are about to pass, the largest budget in our history. At a whopping price tag of $3.6 trillion, the President’s budget will increase taxes by $1.4 trillion and is estimated to increase the national debt $12 trillion over the next ten years. “In addition, the Obama administration has proven to be the most unfriendly administration to our farmers and ranchers in recent history. There have been more efforts to undermine the 2008 Farm Bill, than to fully implement it starting with efforts to eliminate direct payments and to force all farmers to release their tax returns before receiving support payments. Now, the EPA is issuing endangerment findings formally declaring carbon and other greenhouse gases, such as methane, as a pollutant. This paves the way for the EPA to regulate anything and everything that emits carbon or other greenhouse gases including livestock. The very real possibility of this administration proposing a ‘cow tax’ is why I proposed legislation to protect our livestock producers. “Our country is currently facing serious challenges that must be met with real solutions- and recklessly spending borrowed money while raising taxes during an economic recession is not a real solution. I suppose there are some in the media who will give the President style points for his speaking ability, but style only goes so far. It’s substance that determines the fate of an administration. And so far this administration’s substance has been comprised of irresponsible borrowing, spending, and taxing. As we head into President Obama’s next 100 days, I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to represent the voice of farmers and rural America, fight against tax increases, and encourage the President to return to a policy of fiscal responsibility.” # # #
04.22.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Frank Lucas denounced President Obama’s plan to earmark $80 million of his funding request to finance military operations overseas, including the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, to close the detention facility on Guantanamo Bay. The funds will be used to pay foreign countries willing to accept the terrorist detainees housed there. “At a time when our American soldiers are risking their lives overseas, it is irresponsible for the President to include controversial funding to close Gitmo in much needed military funding legislation,” stated Lucas. “It will most certainly hold up the passage of this legislation. Properly funding our military, especially those Americans fighting for our freedom overseas, is a policy we can all get behind. Partisan politics should not be inserted in what would be a bipartisan piece of legislation in an effort to cram a very controversial and ill-conceived plan through Congress.” As one of his first acts, President Obama announced in January that the prison facility in Guantanamo Bay, which is home to some of the most dangerous and notorious terrorists in the world, would be closed within the year. At the time, he gave no specific instructions as to what would be done with the terrorists housed there. “I am outraged at this proposal,” stated Lucas. “Closing the detention facility at Gitmo, especially with no plan as to what will be done with the terrorists housed there, was a reckless decision. The President’s latest plan to pay foreign countries willing to accept these detainees will most certainly put all Americans at a greater risk.” Debate on this legislation could begin as early as this week in Congress. The President requested $83.4 billion to finance the United States’ overseas responsibilities through September 30, 2009. Lucas is a cosponsor of H.R. 701 and H.R. 148, both of which prohibit the use of funds to transfer the terrorists detained in Guantanamo Bay. # # #
04.03.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Lucas appeared as a guest on “Money for Breakfast” this morning to discuss the need for Congress to refocus their efforts to improve the economy. Lucas on the Stimulus and the Democrat’s Economic Plans: “There are people hurting across the country. That’s why I think the actions we take from this point forward, we’ve got to refocus…Focus on short-term stimulus spending, not long term programs, and get an immediate pop. Do something about the capital gains rate. Let’s rev up the engine in this country. So far, we have not focused as intensely on that as I would have hoped we would have.” “I am a great proponent of reducing the capital gains rate. I am a great proponent of driving resources in a quicker, more refined fashion. We’ve put out a lot of money and we’ve added a lot of money to the national debt. We could have targeted it better. Obviously, we have got to target it better from this point on.” Lucas on Companies Returning TARP Funds: “When the captains of industry, the people who are responsible to their stockholders, the people who have a major vested interest of their own resources in these institutions look at the standards we have applied…and say, ‘Hey, it’s not worth it. We want out. We want to control ourselves again.’ I think that says something about the danger of over involving the federal government in basic business decisions.” To view this video or for more video clips of Congressman Lucas, please go to https://lucas.house.gov/videos or visit his YouTube page at www.youtube.com/user/repfranklucas. # # #
04.02.2009	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Reps. Frank Lucas (OK-03) and Ed Perlmutter (CO-06), members of the House Financial Services Committee, praised the decision by the Fair Accounting Standards Board (FASB) to give auditors more flexibility in valuing long term assets held by financial institutions. FASB’s decision comes in the wake of pressure from Lucas and Perlmutter and other members of the House Financial Services Committee at a recent hearing discussing Perlmutter and Lucas’ HR 1349. The Perlmutter-Lucas bill would provide regulators with discretion in applying accounting standards to take into consideration different types of assets and different types of market conditions. The discussion surrounding this bill, and questioning of the SEC, prompted FASB to take action today to modify the accounting rules. “I am very pleased with FASB’s decision to alter the mark-to-market rules and provide more flexibility in valuing assets,” stated Lucas. This is a first step towards creating sounder accounting practices that will reflect current economic conditions.” “I’m glad FASB reconsidered their earlier approach. This is a good step in clarifying how various assets held by financial institutions should be valued.” said Perlmutter. “We hope these changes made by FASB today will enable financial institutions to get credit flowing to Main Street.” The changes made by FASB today will allow financial institutions flexibility in valuing some long-term assets with strong cash flows thus providing the banks with more operating capital available to lend to individuals and small businesses. Perlmutter stated, “Long term, for the safety and soundness of the American financial system, regulators must have the tools to judge the value of assets being held to maturity. Arbitrarily decreasing capital levels of financial institutions puts our communities at risk by causing some financial institutions to show an artificial undercapitalization which prevents them from lending money to businesses and individuals. However, it is critical for investors to have data regarding the assets held by these financial institutions. Our bill, HR 1349, allows for both.” Lucas stated, “The current instability in our financial system has highlighted the need to provide more appropriate oversight. HR 1349 works to address this issue and provide a broader economic perspective of accounting practices that impact our financial institutions. The FAOB will be better able to monitor those practices that pose risk to the health of the system as a whole.” HR 1349 creates a new oversight board, the Federal Accounting Oversight Board (FAOB) comprised of the Federal Reserve, Treasury, the FDIC, and the SEC, to approve the standards set by the independent Federal Accounting Standards Board (FASB). This new board fits into responsible regulatory reform because a broader group of individuals with a view of the greater economy should be in charge of applying GAAP. # # #
04.01.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Lucas is pleased to announce the launch of his new YouTube channel. YouTube is fast becoming one of the most popular websites on the internet, with millions of visitors each day. The Congressman’s new YouTube channel will be just one more mechanism he will use to communicate with his constituents in the Third District of Oklahoma. “A website like YouTube is a great way to get information out to the people of Oklahoma so they can see first-hand what I am working on for them in Washington, D.C.,” stated Lucas. “I am proud to announce the launch of my new YouTube channel and encourage anyone with access to the internet to visit it.” Lucas’ YouTube channel can be found at https://www.youtube.com/user/RepFrankLucas. # # #
03.23.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas is proud to announce the kick-off of the annual Congressional Art Contest. The Congressman’s participation in the contest allows a student from the Third District to display a piece of his or her artwork in the U.S. Capitol. The student will receive three plane tickets to visit Washington, D.C. for an unveiling ceremony for all the winners on June 25, 2009. In addition, he or she may be eligible for a college scholarship. Last year, Karissa Clay from Navajo High School in Blair, Oklahoma won the contest with her work entitled “Country Captivated.” “The Congressional Art Contest is a great opportunity for students in the Third District to be honored for their outstanding achievement in art,” stated Lucas. “I am very proud of the talent shown in the previous years’ winners and look forward to selecting a student for this year’s contest.” Final submissions must be delivered to Congressman Lucas by Tuesday, April 21, 2009. For more information, please visit https://lucas.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition. For drop off locations or other questions, please contact Lynne Hill in Lucas’ Canadian County Office at 405-373-1958. # # #
03.19.2009	Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 1586, which would impose 90 percent tax on bonuses given to employees of certain TARP recipients. The measure passed the House by a vote of 328-93. Lucas voted against the bill. “I have consistently voted against these taxpayer funded bailouts of private companies who made poor decisions. After receiving more than $125 billion from the federal government, it is unconscionable for AIG to pay $165 million in bonuses to executives who have clearly failed at their job as AIG continues to sink further into debt. Even more troubling is the fact that President Obama and Secretary Geithner knew of these bonuses and continued to push for additional bailouts for AIG. “The American people have every right to be outraged at these recent events, and I join them in their outrage. However, levying a 90 percent tax on specified employees is not the way to correct these problems. Instead it is yet another bailout- a political bailout for Speaker Pelosi and the majority party for their poor decisions to push massive federal spending plans through Congress without giving members time to read the legislation. “In addition to setting bad precedence regarding tax policies in this country, this bill clearly violates the U.S. Constitution by targeting a specific group of people and punishing them. The American people deserve to get 100 percent of their money back- not 90 percent in the form of a massive, and potentially unconstitutional, tax.” # # #
03.17.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Lucas is pleased to announce his April town hall meetings. Each year, Lucas hosts 50 town halls within the 32 counties of the Third Congressional District of Oklahoma. The April town hall meetings will cover nine counties and span four days. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, April 6, 20099:00 a.m. to10:00 a.m.LAVERNE TOWN HALL MEETINGMunicipal Complex Conference RoomSeventh and Oklahoma 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.BEAVER TOWN HALL MEETINGFirst Security Bank15 South Douglass Street 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.GUYMON TOWN HALL MEETINGOSU Ag Extension Office301 North Main Street 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.BOISE CITY TOWN HALL MEETINGPTCI Meeting Room378 West Main Street Tuesday, April 7, 20099:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.BUFFALO TOWN HALL MEETINGNorthwestern Electric Meeting Room102 West Turner Street 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.WOODWARD TOWN HALL MEETINGHigh Plains Technology Center3921 Fourth Street 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.SHATTUCK TOWN HALL MEETINGChamber of Commerce Mason Building115 South Main Street Thursday, April 16, 200910:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.DRUMRIGHT TOWN HALL MEETINGSpirit Bank, First Floor121 West Broadway Street 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.MANNFORD TOWN HALL MEETINGMannford City Hall300 Coonrad Street 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.BRISTOW TOWN HALL MEETINGBristow City Hall Council Chambers Room110 West Seventh Street 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.SAPULPA TOWN HALL MEETINGSapulpa City Hall Council Chamber425 East Dewey Street Friday, April 17, 20098:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m.SKIATOOK TOWN HALL MEETINGDr. Gary Johnson Activity Center1000 West Fourth Street 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.PAWHUSKA TOWN HALL MEETINGPawhuska Community Center500 Lynn Avenue 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.HOMINY TOWN HALL MEETINGHominy City Hall219 West First Street 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.PAWNEE TOWN HALL MEETINGPawnee City Hall510 Illinois Street # # #
03.11.2009	Washington, DC - Last week, Congressman Frank Lucas joined fellow Financial Services Committee member Congressman Ed Perlmutter (CO-07) in introducing H.R. 1349, the Federal Accounting Oversight Board Act of 2009. This bipartisan legislation would create an oversight board to approve and oversee accounting standards and principles. “By establishing safeguards like this oversight board to monitor accounting practices within the financial system, we are striving to provide greater flexibility in an ever-changing economic environment,” stated Lucas. “This will provide five of the key members of the federal regulatory community with an enhanced ability to oversee the regulatory framework of the financial system and provide a broader economic perspective of accounting practices.” The Federal Accounting Oversight Board would be comprised of the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the head of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The legislation will be a topic for discussion at a Financial Services Committee hearing tomorrow, March 12th. “This bipartisan bill is one step towards preventing future crises within our financial system,” stated Lucas. “While not the only cause, certain accounting practices clearly have intensified some of our current problems. The Federal Accounting Oversight Board will work to prevent that in the future.” The bill will now be referred to the House Committee on Financial Services, of which Congressman Lucas and Congressman Perlmutter are both members. # # #
03.11.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Ranking Member Frank Lucas introduced a bill (H.R. 1426) that will prevent the government from requiring livestock producers to obtain Title V operating permits under the Clean Air Act. This is in response to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) publishing the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPR) on the subject of Regulating Greenhouse Gas Emissions under the Clean Air Act, which was released last summer. The publication outlines several regulatory options, including requiring livestock producers to obtain these operating permits. The American Farm Bureau Federation estimates that the fees associated with that option would cost livestock producers roughly $88 per head to comply. The introduction of H.R. 1426 comes on the same day that an article was printed in the Washington Post regarding EPA plans to establish a nationwide system for reporting greenhouse gas emissions. This reporting system would apply to measuring greenhouse gas statistics for confined animal-feeding operations. “I don’t think we can take any chances with this administration when it comes to putting greater burdens on our farmers and ranchers. With the release of the President’s budget, this administration has already demonstrated it is out of touch with production agriculture. I have heard from many farmers in my district who are concerned that this ‘cow tax’ will become a reality. This bill is a way to protect our livestock producers from costly and burdensome government intervention. And, it would end any and all discussion about regulating emissions from livestock under the Clean Air Act,” said Ranking Member Frank Lucas. H.R. 1426 is a companion bill to S.527, which was introduced by Senator John Thune (R-SD) and Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-NY). # # #
03.05.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Frank Lucas stood up for the American taxpayer by voting against a $275 billion housing bill that would reward irresponsible home buyers with taxpayer money. The controversial program has been panned by financial experts as well as many Americans. The housing bill includes provisions that will allow bankruptcy judges to write down the principal and interest rate of loans for people whose mortgages are higher than the value of their homes. In addition, it will overhaul the unsuccessful Hope for Homeowners program, which has assisted only 43 homeowners since enactment last summer. “There are aspects of this bill that I support, such as permanently raising the insurance limit for the FDIC from $100,000 to $250,000. This will help to strengthen our banks, especially local and rural banks,” stated Lucas. “However, the precedence that this bill sets- that the government will bail you out if you make an irresponsible or negligent decisions- is just bad policy, plain and simple.” The housing bill passed the House by a vote of 234-191 and will most likely be considered by the Senate sometime this month. # # #
02.27.2009	Washington, DC - Ranking Member Frank Lucas opposes President Obama’s budget proposal that calls for eliminating direct payments to farmers with more than $500,000 in annual sales. The President’s $3.5 trillion budget plan also calls for the elimination of cotton storage payments, a reduction in subsidies for crop insurance, and a funding cut for the Market Access Program that promotes U.S. goods overseas. This proposal comes just months after Congress passed the 2008 Farm Bill, which has not been fully implemented. “This proposal attacks family-run farms all across rural America. The people who provide us with the safest, most abundant food supply in the world are being asked to shoulder the burden of our economic crisis. “We made a commitment to our producers when we passed the 2008 farm bill. Now, during an economic crisis, now when our producers are trying to make planning decisions, now when they’re trying to address higher input costs, we’re going to renege on our promise to them. “Direct payments allow farmers to show bankers and Farm Credit that they have the income to repay their loans. And, direct payments provide producers with the flexibility to respond to market signals when choosing crops. “At a time when the USDA recently reported that U.S. net farm income is down 20% from last year, I find it hard to believe that this is the time the administration has chosen to take $10 billion out of the only stable form of support our producers can count on in a difficult economy. This proposal is ill-timed, ill-conceived, and completely out of touch with the realities of production agriculture,” said Ranking Member Frank Lucas. # # #
02.26.2009	Washington, DC - Yesterday, Ranking Member Frank Lucas sent a letter to the Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, expressing great concern about the Obama administration’s position on eliminating direct payments to producers. Tuesday night, in his address to a joint session of the 111th Congress, President Obama called for ending direct payments. This comes just days after Secretary Vilsack made a speech to a joint meeting of the National Association of Wheat Growers and the U.S. Wheat Associates Boards advising farmers that they should be thinking about developing other sources of income rather than direct payments. “I have real concerns about this administration’s position on eliminating direct payments to our producers, which would be detrimental to their livelihoods. Our farmers and ranchers are some of the hardest working people in the U.S. and they are struggling to make a living in a difficult economy. Yet, it’s clear that both Secretary Vilsack and President Obama don’t understand the problems facing our agriculture community. And, they absolutely don’t understand how important rural communities are to our economy,” said Ranking Member Frank Lucas. The complete letter to Sec. Vilsack is included below. February 25, 2009 The Honorable Tom Vilsack Secretary of Agriculture Room 200-A Jamie L. Whitten Building 1400 Independence Avenue, S.E Washington, DC 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack, It is with great concern that I write to you about the administration’s clear position on eliminating direct payments to our producers. It also seems clear that during an economic crisis, this administration is intent on helping everyone, but those who live and work in rural America. Quite frankly, I expected more from an administration that claims to champion the cause of economic recovery for all. Last night, President Obama told the American people that they “don’t need to hear another list of statistics to know that our economy is in crisis because [they] live it every day.” That is true for our farmers and ranchers who live in rural America. They are some of the hardest working people in the country and they are, indeed, struggling to make a living every day. However, it seems that you and the Administration are not, and that you, in fact, do need to hear a list of statistics. Those statistics are called commodity prices and, in case you weren’t aware, their trends are captured on the futures market, not the stock market. To give you a recap, commodity prices have dropped significantly over the last year. And, the agriculture community has nervously watched this price drop while inputs have stayed the same or increased. At a time when the USDA recently reported that U.S. net farm income is down 20% from last year, it is irresponsible to even think of eliminating the one stable form of support for our producers. The economic crisis that now befalls our entire country is not just limited to the East and West coasts, to the bankers and mortgage houses, but it grips the farmers and rural communities that are the backbone of this great country. Our producers use these direct payments to get credit for their whole operations. Direct payments allow farmers to show bankers and Farm Credit that they have the income to repay their loans. And, direct payments provide producers with the flexibility to respond to market signals when choosing crops. My goal for American agriculture is simple: I want the farmers and ranchers of this country to continue to provide all Americans with the safest, most abundant food, feed, fiber and even fuel supply in the world. I do not think, especially during these dark days of our economy, it is time to be tinkering around with the most stable component of our farm safety net. It is not the time to be risking our farmers’ livelihoods to pay for the mistakes of a few in other sectors of our economy. Instead, producers need to know that they can continue to rely on direct payments as a proven and stable economic base in uncertain times. I urge you to rethink your position on eliminating direct payments to our farmers and ranchers. As you begin your tenure as Secretary of Agriculture, it is critically important that you protect the resources and progress that we have made in the last three farm bills. Sincerely, Frank D. Lucas Ranking Member # # #
02.26.2009	Washington, DC - Today, President Barack Obama released an outline for his proposed $3.5 trillion budget for 2010. The budget is anticipated to raise the national debt by $2.7 trillion. Each year, the President sends Congress a budget proposal. Congress will then use his suggestions to draft their own budget. The President’s full proposal is expected to be released sometime in April. Below is Congressman Frank Lucas’ reaction to the President’s proposal. “Today, President Barack Obama outlined his $3.5 trillion budget proposal for fiscal year 2010. There are aspects of his budget that I favor, including investments into renewable energy sources such as wind. However, our country is currently suffering through an economic recession. Therefore, we must focus on fiscally responsible policies. “A concerning aspect of the President’s proposal is a $1.4 trillion tax increase. Within these tax increases is a cap-and-trade proposal that will increase taxes by $646 billion and a plan to resurrect the death tax. The American people are struggling right now and raising their tax debt will only further their troubles. “Our country is fiscally out of balance right now and our national debt grows at a rapid pace on a daily basis. Now is the time to make tough choices- failure to do so will guarantee that we burden our children and grandchildren with trillions and trillions of dollars of our debt. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and the President throughout this budget process and will work to ensure that we create a fiscally responsible budget that will help the American people without drastically raising our national debt.” # # #
02.26.2009	Washington, DC - Yesterday, the House Financial Services Committee held its semi-annual Humphrey-Hawkins hearing, featuring testimony from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. Under the Humphrey-Hawkins Act of 1973, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve is required to present to Congress a report twice a year outlining the state of the U.S. economy. The Chairman uses these hearings to publicly state the strengths and weaknesses of the economy and to answer questions from committee members. Below are excerpts from Congressman Frank Lucas’ conversation with Chairman Bernanke. The entire video is available at /videos. CONGRESSMAN FRANK LUCAS:“Chairman Bernanke, most of the focus on the credit crisis has centered on the nation’s largest banks and biggest businesses, but there is a whole segment of the financial industry that has not received that much attention. And that’s rural America, where literally hundreds of thousands of farms, ranches, and small businesses are located out in the countryside in small towns, small cities and communities. While the major banks have a presence in rural America…it’s the small independent community banks who are the center of credit availability in most of these communities. Would you touch for a moment on the health of and the status of these institutions? Are they suffering some of the same problems as the major facilities?” CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE:“We have always valued the contribution that they [small banks] make. What the small bank does, what the community bank does is it has the local contacts the local information and builds the local relationships that allow it to make loans that a large bank may not be able to make and to support small business and agriculture and other activities. So we think the small banks and community banks are critical our system. We are very happy that they are there and we believe they will continue to be important to the system.” # # #
02.25.2009	Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1105, the omnibus appropriations bill that will fund the federal government through the remainder of FY 2009. This omnibus bill, at a cost of $410 billion, includes the nine appropriations bills that were not passed last year. They are Agriculture; Commerce, State, and Justice; Energy and Water; Financial Services; Department of Interior; Labor and Health and Human Services; Legislative Branch; Department of State and Foreign Ops; and Transportation and Housing and Urban Development. Rep. Lucas voted against the bill. “The President has made it clear that his priority is to work in a bipartisan manner and to ensure an open and fair legislative process of all pieces of legislation. However, his party’s congressional leaders are not abiding by his request. Just as with the ‘stimulus’ package, Speaker Pelosi broke her own promise to her party and the American people and bypassed proper procedure, cramming this thousand-paged, $410 billion bill across the House floor without any markups or input from both sides of the aisle. “The federal government’s spending habit has gotten out of control. This omnibus spending package is an 8% increase over last year, at an additional cost of $32 billion. But that doesn’t tell the entire story- including the spending in the trillion dollar ‘stimulus’ package, federal spending has increased by 80% from last year, at an additional cost of almost $680 billion. “I understand that compromises will need to be made and look forward to working with my colleagues on fiscally responsible policy. But as the President stated earlier this week, the federal government must get spending under control so we do not leave our children and grandchildren with a debt they cannot repay. The American people are resilient, hard working, and innovative. I have complete confidence that we can come through these current financial problems a stronger and more economically sound nation.” # # #
02.24.2009	Washington, DC - Tonight, President Barack Obama addressed a joint session of Congress to outline his policy agenda for the year. He highlighted his FY2010 budget proposal, the economic stimulus package recently signed into law, and his housing plan. Below is Congressman Frank Lucas’ reaction to the President’s address. “Tonight, President Barack Obama addressed a joint session of Congress to lay out his agenda for the remainder of the year, with a focus on our country’s ailing economy. I join him in his concern for every American and look forward to working with him to aid them in this time of need. “However, spending in this country has gotten out of control. Between the economic stimulus plan and the proposed 2009 omnibus appropriations package, Congress will have increased spending 80% over last year. And we must all remember nothing is free; the American people will be paying for these massive spending increases for generations to come. During these times of financial hardship, we must all practice fiscal restraint- including the federal government. “The American people are hurting right now, and Congress must step up to assist them. I am encouraged that the President has made clear his priority to work in a bipartisan manner. I understand that compromises will need to be made, but as the President stated yesterday, it cannot be at the cost of our children and grandchildren. “The American people are resilient, hard working, and innovative. I have complete confidence that we can come through these current financial problems a stronger and more economically sound nation. I thank the President for his speech this evening.” # # #
02.13.2009	Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives will vote on the Democrats’ massive spending package disguised as a “stimulus” bill. The approximate cost of the bill is $789 billion, not including the estimated $300 billion in interest that will be incurred to borrow the money. Congressman Frank Lucas will oppose this wasteful, over priced and mis-targeted spending package. “There were some notable improvements to the package, including increased infrastructure spending. However, the overall cost to the American people is still too high. Including interest, the bill will cost approximately $1 trillion, which will be passed on to our children and grandchildren to pay for generations. “A responsible stimulus package should use tax cuts and targeted spending to encourage economic activity and create jobs. Instead, Speaker Pelosi and her leadership team have used the American public’s need for an economic stimulus package to cram a bill filled with pet spending projects across the House floor. One of the most irresponsible examples is $30 million to restore the wetlands in San Francisco Bay and protect the salt marsh harvest mouse. While this may be beneficial to the mice in Speaker Pelosi’s district, I am not quite sure how she thinks it will stimulate the economy. “Even more troubling has been the Speaker’s total disregard for proper procedure. She excluded all Republicans and most rank-and-file Democrats from final negotiations, drafting her spending plan behind closed doors in the dead of night. The wording of the more than 1000-page bill was released less than 14 hours prior to the vote, giving members and the American people little time to actually read it. This is not only poor legislation, it is poor governing.” # # #
02.10.2009	Washington, DC - Today, the Senate passed an amended version of the massive spending package disguised as a stimulus bill by a vote of 61-37. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the bill will cost $838 billion, not including the estimated $350 billion in interest that will be incurred to borrow the money. Congressman Frank Lucas opposed this irresponsible spending bill when it was proposed in the House. “I am disappointed by the Senate’s passage of the so-called ‘stimulus’ package today. While I was encouraged by the bipartisan work being done in the Senate, this bill is still filled with too many pork projects and there is not enough job creation for the huge cost. The American people deserve a stimulus package that will actually stimulate the economy, not a trillion dollar spending bill crammed with unnecessary projects. “House Republicans proposed a plan that will do just that: create twice 6.2 million jobs over the next two years at half the cost of Speaker Pelosi’s spending package. In fact, in Oklahoma alone, the Republican plan will create 73,000 jobs as opposed to 42,000 jobs in Speaker Pelosi’s plan. This responsible stimulus plan focuses on cutting taxes and creating jobs without excessive spending measures that will do nothing to stimulate our economy. “This country needs serious economic recovery legislation that will ensure job creation without strapping our children and grandchildren with another trillion dollars in debt. I hope that Speaker Pelosi and her leadership team will reach across the aisle and look for a bipartisan answer to our current economic problems.” # # #
02.04.2009	Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives passed the Senate-amended expansion of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program by a vote of 290-135. Disguised as a program to grant low-income children health insurance, this bill will allow Speaker Pelosi to moves this country closer to a socialized health care system at a massive cost to the American taxpayers. Congressman Frank Lucas explains his vote against the bill below. “SCHIP is a good program that has been subjected to bad policy. In fact, it was during the Republican majority that this program was initially passed and I have voted for it in the past. However, we must ensure that low-income children who need health insurance are covered before we expand it to include middle-class children and adults. “Speaker Pelosi has once again bypassed legislative process and excluded a debate on this important piece of legislation at the expense of the American taxpayers. Perhaps in San Francisco, people earning $88,000 a year are considered “low-income,” but throughout the rest of the country we can see through the Speaker’s attempt to nationalize health care without proper hearings or the approval of the American people. “It is unfortunate that the Speaker chose to pass this important bill in this manner instead of allowing a real discussion that would ensure SCHIP is a successful and financially viable program that will benefit low-income children and their families.” # # #
02.02.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Frank Lucas is pleased to announce his first set of town hall meetings for the year 2009. All residents of these locations are invited to attend a meeting and express their opinions. Lucas will be discussing current events in Washington, taking questions about issues important to constituents of the Third Congressional District, and asking for opinions and input on legislation currently before Congress. Monday, February 16, 20099 a.m. to 10 a.m. SAYRE TOWN HALL MEETINGSayre Public Library, Community Room113 E Poplar Ave 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.ELK CITY TOWN HALL MEETINGCarnegie Library, Community Meeting Room221 West Broadway 1 p.m. to 2 p.m.CLINTON TOWN HALL MEETINGClinton City Hall, Council Chamber415 Gary Boulevard 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.WEATHERFORD TOWN HALL MEETINGCity Hall, Blair Hall522 West Rainey Tuesday, February 17, 200910 a.m. to 11 a.m.SEILING TOWN HALL MEETINGSeiling City Hall315 N. Main Street 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. WATONGA TOWN HALL MEETINGWatonga City Hall117 North Weigle Avenue 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.KINGFISHER TOWN HALL MEETINGChisholm Trail Museum 605 Zellers Avenue 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. YUKON TOWN HALL MEETINGDale Robertson Senior Center1200 Lakeshore Drive} # # #
01.28.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Frank Lucas will take a stand against government waste by voting against the Pelosi-Obama economic “stimulus” package. The bill has an estimated cost of $825 billion, which is almost as much as the annual discretionary budget for the entire federal government. This piece of legislation is in addition to the $700 billion bailout Congress passed last year. “The federal government does not create wealth. It simply takes money from one person’s pocket and transfers it to another person’s pocket,” stated Lucas. “Spending hundreds of billions of dollars this country does not have on government projects that are unnecessary will not stimulate the economy and does not help my constituents.” The package, developed by Speaker Pelosi and the majority party leadership, promises to create 3 million jobs and have an immediate boost in the American economy, however economists have agreed that there is no guarantee of creating even one job. Even if all 3 million jobs are created, it would be at a cost of $275,000 per job, while the average American income is $50,000. “This massive spending bill adds $6,700 to each American household’s share of the debt, which will be passed on to our children and grandchildren,” stated Lucas. “There are portions of this bill that I support, such as infrastructure spending. But the spirit of a stimulus packaged is to pump money into the economy as quickly as possible, and this bill does not do that.” The bill passed the House by a vote of 244-188. It will now be considered by the Senate, most likely some time early next week.} # # #
01.27.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Lucas joined other members of the Oklahoma delegation in support of H.R. 701, which would block the transport of terrorists and enemy combatants to Oklahoma from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba by prohibiting funding for the transfer of detainees to Oklahoma and the construction of new facilities to house detainees. “Oklahoma will not become this nation’s dumping ground for terrorists and other dangerous individuals,” stated Lucas. “I will continue to work closely with the other members of the Oklahoma delegation to ensure that no detainees in Guantanamo Bay are moved to Oklahoma soil.” Last week President Obama issued an executive order that would close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay within one year. The President’s order included no specific plans as to what will be done with the detainees housed there, however Oklahoma’s Fort Sill was mentioned as one of a few a possible transfer locations. “I am outraged by President Obama’s careless decree to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay with no solid strategy of how to deal with the inmates,” stated Lucas. “I will not stand idly by while he attempts to make Oklahomans less safe by sending known terrorists to our state.” H.R. 701 was introduced by Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05). All members of the Oklahoma delegation joined Fallin as original co-sponsors of the legislation. The bill will next be referred to committee for markup. # # #
01.23.2009	Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), a Senior Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Rep. Dan Boren (D-Okla.), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. Mary Fallin (R-Okla.), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.), Rep. Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), and Rep John Sullivan (R-Okla.) joined together today in a united front to express outrage at President Obama’s decision to shut down Guantanamo Bay, possibly leading to terrorists coming to Oklahoma. Senator Inhofe: “President Obama’s decision to shut down Guantanamo Bay could have a devastating impact on our national security and is simply unacceptable. Through my position on the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will lead the fight in the Senate to prevent these terrorists from coming to my state or any state on American soil. My constituents in Oklahoma deserve to feel safe, and we will not feel safe with some of the most dangerous terrorists in the world - men who would kill thousands for an extremist ideology - on our soil. I will fight this decision, and Oklahomans will not be subject to this type of insecurity. I will work hand and hand with the rest of the Oklahoma delegation, and the other 93 Members of the Senate who in 2007 resolved that detainees housed at Guantanamo should not be released into American society, nor should they be transferred stateside into facilities in American communities and neighborhoods.” Congressman Boren: “I am adamantly opposed to the movement of Guantanamo detainees to any location in Oklahoma. It is absolutely unacceptable to even consider relocating these terrorists to American soil, let alone Oklahoma. With three Members of the Delegation sitting on the Armed Services Committees in both houses of Congress, we will be working diligently to stop any plan that includes relocating detainees to any military facility in Oklahoma.” Congressman Cole: "I will oppose any efforts to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees into our state and other American communities. Moving dangerous terrorists closer to home threatens the safety of our citizens and undermines the security of our military posts. Many of these detainees have committed dangerous acts against Americans and it gravely concerns me that others are considering transporting them into our country. I believe the President made a mistake by announcing the closure of Guantanamo Bay before providing a plan that details what will be done with the detainees." Congresswoman Fallin: “Oklahomans had a very personal and tragic confrontation with terrorism in 1995 that killed 168 of our friends and neighbors and we frankly do not want our soil polluted by these terrorists. I question the decision of the new administration in announcing the closing of Guantanamo Bay without a viable plan in place, and I will do all I can to make sure that if President Obama persists in this policy that none of the terrorists will be housed in our state, even for one night.” Congressman Sullivan: “The listing of Ft. Sill, Oklahoma as a potential relocation facility for al-Qaeda terrorists is completely unacceptable and represents a direct threat to the safety and security of Oklahoma and our nation. I have long been skeptical about President Obama’s calls to close our terrorist detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and I will do everything in my power to keep these terrorists who have killed American’s out of our communities-period. Since the tragic attacks of September 11, 2001, our nation has been focused on keeping the American people safe by taking the fight to the terrorists so we don’t have to face them here on our soil –relocating those who mean us harm to American cities is a huge step backwards in the war on terror and a danger to our homeland.” Congressman Lucas: “I am disappointed by President Obama's decision to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. His poor choice has made this country less safe for each and every Oklahoman. I will work closely with the other members of our delegation to ensure that we don't expose our country to another tragedy like September 11th.” # # #
01.22.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Lucas voted in favor of H.J. Res. 3, a bill that would prohibit the Department of Treasury from having access to the second half of the funding for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), also known as the bailout bill. “As with the initial $350 billion, we have been given no specific details of exactly how the second half of the bailout money will be spent or evidence that it will actually help the economy,” stated Lucas. “The American people deserve to know where their money is being spent before the Department of Treasury spends it.” TARP was a controversial piece of legislation that passed Congress late last in an effort to aid the country’s financial markets during their recent turmoil. As its name denotes, the bill established a fund to be used to purchase troubled assets in an effort to return liquidity to the market and encourage investment. Instead, Treasury used the money to purchase stock in the largest financial institutions, which are located primarily on the east and west coast. “After the Treasury Department blatantly disregarded the instructions of Congress and the American people with the first $350 billion of the bailout money, I could not hand them another blank check,” stated Lucas. “Congress must stop trying to borrow and spend our way back to a strong economy. It simply does not work and is a waste of hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars.” The bill passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 270-155 but failed in Senate by a vote of 42-52. In order to withhold the money, both houses would have had to vote to disallow the second allocation. # # #
01.21.2009	Washington, DC - Monday, President George W. Bush granted clemency to two former U.S. Border Patrol agents, Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean, who were convicted of shooting an admitted drug smuggler Osvaldo Aldrete Davila, injuring him. The two agents were sentenced to 10 years in jail, a punishment many believed was much too harsh for their actions. They have served about two years of their sentence. “I applaud President Bush, in one of his last acts in office, for commuting the sentences of Border Patrol agents Ramos and Compean,” stated Lucas. “Their sentences were unnecessarily harsh when compared with the charges against them. This was the right thing to do.” During the trial, the two agents argued they believed the drug smuggler was armed and dangerous and they shot at him in self-defense. Mr. Davila fled the two agents after having abandoned a van filled with marijuana he was attempting to smuggle into the country. The prosecution claimed the agents attempted to cover-up the shooting. “Our Border Patrol agents risk their lives every day to keep this country safe from drug smugglers and criminals who attempt to cross our border,” stated Lucas. “While proper oversight into their actions is necessary, we should not create an air of fear of prosecution for doing their job.” During his eight years in office, President Bush granted 189 pardons and 11 commutations. Before him, President Bill Clinton issued 457 pardons during his eight years in office. # # #
01.16.2009	Washington, DC - U.S. Third District Congressman Frank Lucas has named Nicole Scott the new Republican Staff Director of the House Agriculture Committee. Scott moves from Mr. Lucas’ personal office, where she served as his agriculture advisor for the last ten years. Lucas took the reins as the Republican leader of the committee last week, replacing Rep. Bob Goodlatte (VA-06). “I am pleased to announce Ms. Scott’s new role as the Republican Staff Director of the Agriculture Committee,” stated Lucas. “Nicole has been a valuable member of my staff for the last ten years, and I know that her knowledge and experience will serve the committee well.” She comes to the committee after serving as Congressman Lucas’ Deputy Chief of Staff for eight years. Prior to that, Scott served as his Legislative Director for one year. Scott was hired after serving as a legislative assistant for former Congressman J.C. Watts for three years. “I am honored that Mr. Lucas has selected me to serve as the Republican Staff Director for the Agriculture Committee,” stated Scott. “I look forward to serving Congressman Lucas, the committee, and the people of Oklahoma in my new position.” Scott hails from Waurika, Oklahoma. She is a graduate of the University of Oklahoma, where she earned her Bachelor of Arts in 1991. She continued her education at the University of Oklahoma’s College of Law, and earned her Juris Doctorate in 1994. # # #
01.09.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Frank Lucas was appointed to serve as a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the House Committee on Science and Technology. In addition, last month he was appointed to serve as the Republican leader of the House Committee on Agriculture. “I am honored to have been selected to serve as the Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Committee,” stated Lucas. “I look forward to using my experience as an Oklahoma farmer and the knowledge I learned studying agriculture at Oklahoma State University to bring an Oklahoma perspective to this nation’s farm policy.” The Financial Services Committee has jurisdiction over the country’s housing and financial services sectors, including banking, real estate, and public housing, and has played a vital role in the ongoing discussions of our troubled financial markets. This will be Lucas’ eighth term on this committee. The Science and Technology Committee has jurisdiction over a variety of issues, including NASA, energy research and development, and scientific research and development. This will be Lucas’ sixth term on this committee. “I am pleased to be able to continue my service on these two committees,” stated Lucas. “The next two years will present many challenges, especially with the recent turmoil in our financial markets, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to address these challenges.” This will mark Lucas’ ninth term as a member of the United States House of Representatives, serving since he was first elected in 1994 when he replaced former Rep. Glenn English in a special election held in May 1994. # # #
01.06.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Frank Lucas was sworn in as a member of the 111th Congress. “I would like to thank the fine people of the Third Congressional District for allowing me to continue my service to them in the United States House of Representatives,” stated Lucas. “It is an honor and I look forward to continuing to represent their voice in Congress.” Lucas was selected to serve as the Ranking Member, or Republican leader, of the House Committee on Agriculture. He will serve as his party’s policy leader for all areas over which the committee has jurisdiction, which includes the U.S. Department of Agriculture and its various agencies as well as the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. “Now is the time for Congress to roll up our sleeves and get to work quickly to alleviate some of the economic hardships facing the American people today,” stated Lucas. “There have already been many discussions of a potential $800 billion stimulus package. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that the stimulus package focuses on creating long-term business growth while generating limited government interference.” This will mark Lucas’ ninth term as a member of the United States House of Representatives, serving since he was first elected in 1994 when he replaced former Rep. Glenn English in a special election held in May 1994. # # #
