03.13.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Republican Leader of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, delivered the following opening remarks at the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health hearing on “Lowering the Cost of Prescription Drugs: Reducing Barriers to Market Competition.” Dr. Burgess’ Remarks as Prepared for Delivery Thank you, Chairwoman Eshoo. Today, we are having a hearing that will touch upon the important topic of drug pricing; although I am frustrated that we are not considering more substantive policies. As the Chairman of this Subcommittee in December of 2017, I held a drug supply chain hearing with a total of ten witnesses. While the number of witnesses pushed the limits on how many individuals we could fit at one table, I thought it was critical that we have someone to represent each level of the drug supply chain. As evidenced by that hearing, there are a number of conflicting opinions held by the entities along the supply chain, but that does not mean that we should not listen to them. It is likely that legislation to address drug pricing will ruffle some feathers, and that is ok; however, it is not acceptable to intentionally legislate in a black box. While a few of the bills before us today are bipartisan and have been previously introduced, there are numerous new pieces of legislation. The text of these bills were not shared with the Republicans until last Monday, which violates the two week rule that has been considered sacred for years. This was not a Republican rule. This is a rule that both Chairman Waxman and Chairman Dingell held in high regard. I will reiterate what I said last week – bipartisanship is asking for my input, not just for my vote. There are some of these bills that we might have been able to work together on, and may be able to partner on going forward. Giving a Member less than 24 hours to sign onto a piece of legislation they have never seen is discourteous, especially when we have said at each hearing thus far this Congress that we are willing to work in a bipartisan way. If we don’t have a seat at the table during the drafting process, you can expect us to take longer to do our due diligence in vetting the policies. Additionally, no stakeholders had been consulted in the drafting of these bills, including the Association for Accessible Medicines – the generics manufacturers, whom these bills are supposedly intended to benefit. In fact, the generics manufacturers have either not commented on, or oppose, a number of the bills before us this morning. Several of these bills had not seen the light of day outside of Chairman Pallone’s staff, the Members these bills were assigned to, and House legislative counsel. These bills have received no input from stakeholders, and no technical assistance from the agencies – namely the Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade Commission. As Chairman of this Subcommittee, I never would have even thought about holding a hearing on seven bills that were not shared with Members of the other party nine days until the hearing, not to mention without the agency witnesses. It is unthinkable that the Food and Drug Administration was not invited to testify at this hearing. This is not a grab-bag drug pricing hearing. These are seven pieces of complex legislation that all intricately involve the FDA. Not only was FDA not invited to present us with their thoughts about these bills, the FDA was not consulted for technical assistance on any of these bills prior to this hearing. I learned that staff spoke with FDA about these bills for the first time yesterday, and the agency had more questions than answers. As the agency that would largely be tasked with implementing these bills should any be signed into law, I find it immensely troubling that they agency witnesses were not considered by the Democrats. Ideally, we could have called FDA in to be our Republican witness, but we did not get notice that this hearing was happening with enough time to do so. I do want to thank the witnesses that are here for agreeing to testify before us this morning. I do hope that we can use their expertise to highlight the flaws in some of these bills, and that we can utilize their input to improve upon some of the bills on which we may find a bipartisan path forward. I yield back. ###
03.12.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Republican Leader of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, welcomed Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar to his first hearing at the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee to discuss President Trump’s fiscal year 2020 budget. Dr. Burgess’ Remarks as Prepared for Delivery Thank you, Chairwoman Eshoo, and welcome to Secretary Azar. It is a pleasure to have you testifying before the Health Subcommittee this afternoon about the fiscal year 2020 budget proposal. The President’s budget provides Congress with an important blueprint for our appropriations process and with policies that the President and his Administration would like to see in the coming fiscal year. Under our Constitution, no money may be spent from the Treasury unless appropriated by Congress and, in a perfect world, no money would be appropriated unless the expenditure is previously authorized. The Energy and Commerce Committee is a principal authorizing committee of the U.S. House of Representatives. I believe this is a critical task and that it is important to get input from the Department of Health and Human Services when we are reauthorizing and reforming programs under its control. While we do hear from the boots on the ground in our districts, it the agency that both oversees the implementation of these programs and provides funding to ensure that organizations can carry out the initiatives’ goals. Secretary Azar, thus far in your tenure as the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, you have proven to be immensely helpful to this Committee and its work. You and your team have been responsive to our requests for information and input, and you have made yourself available to Members so that we can hear about your priorities and your intention to work with Congress on various initiatives. Of all the Secretaries of Health and Human Services over my years in Congress, I have found you to be the most transparent and accessible, and I look forward to continuing to partner with you on your efforts to improve access and quality of health care for Americans. One issue that I have raised in each hearing this Congress and one that I hear consistently from constituents is the cost and complexity of the health care system. North Texans frequently tell me that they can barely afford their insurance premiums, let alone the cost they must pay to seek the care they need, especially those with high deductible plans. Secretary Azar, I know that addressing the cost of health care, and specifically drug prices, has been a priority for the Department under your leadership. I hope that this Committee, being the one with primary jurisdiction over these issues, will work with you as we consider ways to solve these issues. Additionally, as the Energy and Commerce Committee primarily drafted landmark laws, including 21st Century Cures and last year’s opioid effort - the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, we should conduct responsible oversight to ensure that the Department of Health and Human Services is implementing these laws in alignment with Congressional intent. It is encouraging to see that the President’s budget request seeks to expand treatment and recovery support services for individuals suffering from substance use disorders, in addition to enhancing prevention of addiction in the first place. While it is important to stem the tide of addiction, we cannot ignore those who have a legitimate need for pain treatment, including cancer patients, sickle cell anemia patients, and others. To that effect, the budget requests $500 million to use for the National Institutes of Health to partner with private industry to work towards the development of non-addictive pain therapies, in addition to addiction treatments and overdose-reversal technologies. Additionally, I am encouraged to see that the budget proposes $500 million for childhood cancer therapies, and $291 million to defeat the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Both efforts are worthy of Congressional support. Another important agency within HHS, the Office of Refugee Resettlement, is required to provide care for unaccompanied alien children, a task for which it was woefully unprepared when this crisis began in 2012 when President Obama signed an executive order enacting the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. While conditions and quality of care have improved, the number of illegal border crossings continues to increase. Let me be clear, the Office of Refugee Resettlement does not enforce immigration law; they receive children as a result of ICE and CBP enforcement. President Trump’s budget includes up to $3.7 billion in FY2020 for the Unaccompanied Alien Children program. Congress charged the Office of Refugee Resettlement with the care of unaccompanied alien children, and I hope this committee will support these dedicated HHS and ORR employees as they continue to work with integrity in the face of baseless allegations. Again, thank you to Secretary Azar for your willingness to testify and for taking the time out of your busy schedule to answer our questions. ###
03.08.2019	Lake Dallas, TX — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) announced the details of his 2019 Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair that will be held on Saturday, March 23 at the Trophy Club Town Hall. “Weather in our region is unpredictable and can change in an instant. The Emergency Preparedness Summit is designed to help North Texas families prepare for any emergency they may face,” said Dr. Burgess. “Each year, I learn something new from the local and federal leaders who participate in this event, and I invite all constituents of the 26th District of Texas to join us in Trophy Club on March 23.” In partnership with the Town of Trophy Club, the Tarrant County Office of Emergency Management, Denton County Emergency Services, and other organizations, Dr. Burgess has designed this free and informative event to be enjoyable for the whole family. Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair Date: Saturday, March 23, 2019 Time: 8:00am - 12:00pm Location: Trophy Club Town Hall, 1 Trophy Wood Drive, Trophy Club, TX 76262 This year’s Summit will feature a keynote address given by Dan Henry, Chief Meteorologist for KDFW/Fox 4, as well as special children’s activities including “Touch the Trucks” tours of emergency vehicles and live safety demonstrations. For more information, visit Congressman Burgess’ website or contact Robin Vaughan in Congressman Burgess’ District Office by phone (940-497-5031) or email. ###
03.08.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Republican Leader of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on H.R. 1. “Those who pay taxes should have a voice in our democracy. As a teenager, I worked at a pizza shop in Denton and paid taxes. That’s why I voted for an amendment to H.R. 1 that would give young adults the right to vote; however, this amendment failed by a wide margin and was not adopted. “Here’s the bottom line: H.R. 1, the Democrat Politician Protection Act, is bad policy. It constrains free speech, limits states’ rights, and redirects power to Washington, D.C. Thanks to President Trump’s promised veto, this legislation will not become the law of the land. Along with the Green New Deal and government-run, “one-size-fits-all” health care, this blatant power grab is yet another step toward Democrats’ extreme agenda that North Texans don’t want and can’t afford. You can count on me to keep fighting to protect Americans’ personal freedom.” ###
03.07.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Republican Leader of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on H. Res. 183. “The U.S. Constitution guarantees Americans certain inalienable rights, including the freedom to practice the religion of one’s choice. No person should be targeted for their religious beliefs. Anti-Semitism is wrong. Full stop. All forms of religious discrimination are wrong. Full stop. As Members of Congress, we must hold ourselves to the highest standards. All Members should stand together to protect the Constitutional rights of our fellow Americans. "To be clear: H. Res. 183 – legislation that was released after several bouts of indecision by Democratic leadership less than two hours before we were slated to vote – does not adequately refute the Anti-Semitism that has been displayed in the U.S. House of Representatives. This exercise was a clear failing of Speaker Pelosi and her leadership team, which is particularly unfortunate given the grave nature of this situation.” ###
03.06.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Republican Leader of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, testified at the House Budget Committee’s Fiscal Year 2020 Budget Members’ Day hearing. He addressed Democrats’ government-run, single-payer health care plan and its potentially-catastrophic ramifications for American patients today and for generations to come. Dr. Burgess’ Full Remarks as Prepared for Delivery Thank you, Chairman Yarmuth and Republican Leader Womack, for allowing me to share my thoughts this morning about the Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2020. I would particularly like to express my concern about this Committee’s interest in pursuing single-payer, government-run health care. Health policy has a budgetary component, and it should move through a transparent, regular order process at the Committees of jurisdiction, including the Energy and Commerce Committee. The Democrats’ one-size-fits-all government-run, single-payer health care bill would epically fail to provide access to quality health care for Americans. This plan would lead to a massive tax increase, eliminate private insurance, and accelerate the pending-bankruptcy of the already-dwindling Medicare trust fund. The constituents in my district are struggling to afford their health insurance, and I am sure that my district is not the only one suffering from sky-high premiums and deductibles. What good is health care insurance if you are afraid to use it because you can’t afford your deductible? This is an issue that I would like to see us tackle, and I am confident that a government-run, single-payer health care system would only further damage our nation’s health care. As the son of a doctor who chose to leave Canada’s government-run health care system behind for the United States, I worry that central state control of health care as it exists in other countries would be damaging to the doctor-patient relationship. As a physician, I do not believe that the government should hinder a doctor’s ability to act in the best interest of his or her patient. I wish the concept of government dictating a physician’s practice and decisions was ¬-unthinkable. Alas, I find myself here today having to deconstruct the idea of further government control of health care. Ms. Jayapal’s proposal would implement a global budget, and once that is set, hospitals and institutions would be required to stick to it for all outpatient and inpatient treatment. That is what terrifies me. What happens if the budget runs out? Are patients told “sorry, we ran out of money, try again next year?” I also would expect that of all the Committees in the House, this very Committee would know better than to create an additional entitlement program and devolve further power to the executive branch. Today, we should be focusing on the parts of the health insurance market that are working for Americans. According to a survey by America’s Health Insurance Plans, 71 percent of Americans are satisfied with their employer-sponsored health insurance, which provides robust protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions. Quite simply, the success of the employer-sponsored insurance market is not worth wiping out with single-payer health care. Since President Trump took office, the number of Americans in employer health coverage has increased by more than 2.5 million. In fact, today there is a greater percentage of Americans in employer health coverage than at any time since 2000. That’s why I am thoroughly astounded – though not surprised – that House Democrats want to abolish that insurance option entirely. Having been a Senior Policy Advisor for health care on the campaign trail for Senator McCain in 2008, who proposed a policy that would impact ERISA plans, I learned firsthand that touching individuals’ employer plans is not well-received. Instead of building upon the successes of our existing health insurance framework, the Democrats’ radical, single-payer, government-run policy would tear it down. It would eliminate employer-sponsored health insurance, private insurance, and popular Medicare Advantage plans for seniors. There is no question that this policy could be catastrophic for American patients today and for generations to come. Under this policy: you cannot keep your doctor, you cannot keep your insurance, you cannot keep your personal liberty. It effectively would end all the parts of our health care system that are working for the American people. Quite simply, single-payer health care would be another failed attempt at a one-size-fits-all approach to health care. Americans are all different and a single-payer health care plan will not meet the varying needs of each and every individual. Single-payer is not one-size-fits-all, it is really one-size-fits-no-one. ###
03.05.2019	Washington, D.C. —Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Republican Leader of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, recently reintroduced H.R. 108, the Targeting Rogue and Opaque Letters (TROL) Act of 2019. This legislation, which has been introduced since the 114th Congress, would protect legitimate patent holders and stop bad actors. “Entrepreneurship and innovation are key pillars of American opportunity. Too often, patent trolls foil progress with frivolous legal action – particularly in the Eastern District of Texas,” said Dr. Burgess. “The federal government should not be in the business of thwarting entrepreneurs’ ingenuity. The TROL Act is a commonsense solution that would protect Americans’ intellectual property and expand their opportunity to innovate. “In North Texas, Apple’s recent decision to close two stores located in the Eastern District and open a store outside of its jurisdiction underscores the need for legislation to limit patent trolls. Congress should consider the TROL Act soon.” Background: The TROL Act makes it an unfair or deceptive act or practice, under the Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC) Section 5 authority, for a person to knowingly send misleading demand letters asserting patent infringement – also known as patent demand letters. This bill would allow the FTC to impose civil penalties on patent trolls that limit innovation and hurt small businesses that cannot afford to fight the assertions in court. As Business Insider recently reported, Texas’ Eastern District is notorious for entertaining patent trolls at the detriment of legitimate patent owners. Most recently, Apple announced it would close its stores in Plano, T.X. and Frisco, T.X., and open a store within the jurisdiction of the Northern District court. ###
02.28.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Republican Leader of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on House Democrats’ government-run, single-payer health care bill. “As a physician serving in Congress, I have spent over a decade working to limit government involvement in health care. This one-size-fits-all, Soviet-style policy is a substantial move in the wrong direction, and it could result in catastrophic ramifications for American patients today and for generations to come. “This legislation necessitates an immediate hearing in the Energy and Commerce Committee and careful consideration by all lawmakers. As I wrote to Chairman Pallone earlier this month, it is important for the committee of jurisdiction, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, to have a full and transparent hearing process that ensures the full participation of all committee Members, on both sides of the dais.” ###
02.19.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Republican Leader of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after visiting two Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) shelters for unaccompanied minors in Florida. “During my visit to both the Homestead and Boystown ORR shelters today, I was pleased to see children receiving excellent care from dedicated HHS staff. The high quality of medical and mental health care available in these shelters today is a substantial improvement from the conditions I found in ORR shelters during the Obama Administration. When I began visiting ORR facilities in 2014 at the height of the UAC crisis, I was shocked by the conditions I found – particularly the lack of medical care. Thanks to the oversight of the House Energy and Commerce Committee over the last five years, today children in ORR custody receive medical and mental health care, vaccinations, education, and other critical services, including screening for vulnerability to trafficking. “Though other Members of Congress regard these shelters as nothing more than a political prop, I remain committed to providing intentional oversight. This wasn’t my first trip to an ORR shelter, and it certainly won’t be my last. Moving forward, I will continue to work alongside Secretary Azar, the Department of Health and Human Services, and fellow Members of Congress to ensure that all children entrusted to federal custody receive excellent care.” ###
02.05.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Republican Leader of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on President Trump’s State of the Union address. “Tonight President Trump offered an optimistic message of hope and unity to the American people, highlighting our nation’s greatness and proposing a collaborative path forward. From strengthening our national defense to protecting American workers and investing in our infrastructure, President Trump is committed to creating a better future for the American people. During his time in office, President Trump has made lowering health care costs a core priority of his Administration’s agenda. As the most senior physician serving in Congress, I am honored to work alongside President Trump to lower drug costs and make the health care system work for – and not against – American patients and doctors. “Despite the vast progress we have made over the last two years – including passing pro-growth policies that have spurred the best U.S. economy in decades – we have much work before us. As we continue in the 116th Congress, I hope that Congressional Democrats will reject the politics of resistance and accept President Trump’s offer of compromise as we strive to work together for good of the American people.” ###
01.29.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) released the following statement after he introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Athletes who compete honestly should never have victory seized from them by those who have used performing-enhancing drugs. The World Anti-Doping Agency’s most recent decision to give Russia a free pass for its state-sponsored doping scandal in 2014 clearly conveys that leaders of international sport governance refuse to uphold the integrity of competition. As hardworking athletes who play by the rules have experienced, the current framework is fundamentally ill-equipped to defend clean athletes and prevent doping fraud. Russia’s doping scandal not only harmed clean international athletes, but also hurt its own athletes. It is time to restore a level playing field and ensure that the rights of U.S. and all clean athletes are respected, and the Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act will help to avert fraud and protect our athletes.” The Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act (RADA) is named for Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, the Russian whistleblower who exposed his country’s state-sponsored doping scandal. Last year, Dr. Rodchenkov participated, via his attorney Jim Walden, at a Helsinki Commission briefing on combating fraud in sports. This bill would establish criminal penalties for participating in a scheme to influence a major international sport competition where U.S. athletes compete or U.S. entities are stakeholders through prohibited substances or methods. It also would provide restitutions to victims of such conspiracies, protect whistleblowers from retaliation, and facilitate coordination with the United States Anti-Doping Agency to preserve the integrity of competition. You can read the full text here. ###
01.25.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) released the following statement on President Trump’s plan to end the government shutdown. “Thirty-five days into Democrats’ senseless shutdown, President Trump has proven that he values the wellbeing of the American people over petty politics. Government shutdowns are wrong, and hardworking federal employees should be paid for the work they have done serving their fellow Americans. I am committed to reviewing all proposals to enact permanent solutions for the humanitarian and security crisis on our southern border, as well as provide long-term stability for federal employees. In the days to come, Speaker Pelosi must come to the table to deliver on her oath to defend our nation and serve the American people.” ###
01.24.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) released the following statement on this afternoon’s meeting at the White House. “This afternoon I joined President Trump at the White House to discuss legislation to promote fair and balanced trade that will bolster our economy and protect American workers. Over the past two years, President Trump has taken significant steps to negotiate better trade deals for American workers and industries, including the new United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement on trade. Despite this progress, there is always more work to be done, and I’ll continue to support President Trump’s mission to build fair and balanced trade relationships. As a nation, our goal must always be to support American jobs for American workers at American wages.” ###
01.17.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) released the following statement on his vote to authorize pay checks for federal employees affected by the Democrats’ senseless government shutdown. “Today the U.S. House of Representatives had an opportunity to pay the federal employees who have been hurt by Democrats’ senseless government shutdown. Despite claiming to want to reopen the government, House Democrats blocked this critical Republican-led vote, choosing instead to allow hardworking Americans to go without their first paycheck of the year. It’s past time for this shutdown to end. Until we reach an acceptable conclusion, I will keep fighting for federal employees in North Texas and the resources we need to secure our southern border.” The Republican Motion to Recommit H.J. Res. 28 – Further Continuing Appropriations Act would have allowed all federal employees to receive their first paycheck of the year by extending funding from December 22, 2018 through January 15, 2019. The Motion to Recommit also would have required further action to secure the border and reopen the government. For a full list of Members who supported this solution, please see the roll call vote. ###
01.15.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Energy and Commerce Committee Republican Leader Greg Walden (R-OR) released the following statement on Dr. Burgess’ appointment to serve as the top Republican on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. “It is a privilege to serve as the top Republican on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health as I continue fighting to improve health care for Americans in North Texas and around the country. As the most senior physician serving in Congress, I have experienced the dangerous implications of government involvement in health care on both sides of the equation, and throughout my time in Congress have championed solutions that put patients first,” Dr. Burgess said. “As we build on our work in the last Congress to combat our nation’s opioid crisis, reduce physician burden, and make health care more affordable, I am looking forward to working alongside Ranking Member Walden and the Trump Administration to fight for commonsense health care policy that works for the American people.” “Dr. Burgess has been a tremendous voice on the Health Subcommittee,” Energy and Commerce Committee Republican Leader Greg Walden (R-OR) said. “His experience as a physician and a health policy leader will be invaluable as we examine key issues that affect American patients across our nation, and I’m grateful that he will be leading our Members as we tackle tough issues like reducing health care costs and as we continue to implement landmark legislation such as the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act to combat the opioid crisis, 21st Century Cures, and the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA).” ###
01.08.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) released the following statement on President Trump’s address to the nation. “This evening, President Trump reiterated what those of us who travel frequently to the southern border already know: Americans cannot keep our country safe without securing the southern border. The previous Administration clearly failed to fix what President Obama dubbed a humanitarian crisis in 2014. Quite simply, Americans cannot allow the southern border to remain a porous channel for gang violence, crime, drugs, and human trafficking. Although House Democrats have decided that the status quo is acceptable, I’m fighting to make American communities safe again.” ###
01.04.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) released the following statement on Dr. Burgess’ reappointment to the powerful House Rules Committee for the 116th Congress. “I am grateful for the opportunity to continue serving on the House Rules Committee as we approach important issues including national security, health care, and fiscal responsibility,” said Dr. Burgess. “As the 116th Congress begins, it is critically important that the Rules Committee closely examine all legislation before it reaches the House Floor and consider how each bill will impact Americans in North Texas and around the country. I am looking forward to spending many late nights in the Capitol working alongside Ranking Member Tom Cole (R-OK) and Reps. Rob Woodall (R-GA) and Debbie Lesko (R-AZ), and I thank Leader McCarthy for the opportunity to serve.” “I am excited that Mike has agreed to continue serving our conference on the Rules Committee,” said Leader McCarthy. “His experience and insight will be critical in defending conservative values on all legislation coming to the House floor.” ###
01.03.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) released the following statement on the start of the 116th Congress. “Today I took an oath to support and defend the U.S. Constitution as I serve the 26th District of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives. As the 116th Congress begins, I will continue fighting to limit the role of government in Americans’ lives, strengthen our national security, and bolster economic prosperity.” ###
12.28.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after publishing his 2018 Year End Report detailing key accomplishments and services for the 26th District. “I began the 115th Congress with high expectations for what we could accomplish for North Texans. As this term concludes, it is clear we have achieved important legislative victories and made significant strides in areas where work remains. From committee hearings to town halls, case work to media interviews, I am committed to serving the 26th District to the best of my ability. As a Member of Congress, I have always made communicating with constituents one of my top priorities, and this annual report is one way I share my work on behalf of the 26th District of Texas. I hope North Texans review it and let me know how I can best serve them and their families as we look ahead to 2019.” During 2018, Dr. Burgess: · Authored and introduced 18 bills · Hosted or attended more than 430 meetings · Gave 80+ interviews · Resolved 434 cases with federal agencies on behalf of constituents · Received and responded to more than 50,000 pieces of correspondence · Honored 19 student constituents entering the U.S. Service Academies · Traveled more than 6,000 miles in North Texas For more, please read the complete 2018 Year End Report. ###
12.11.2018	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, and Rep. Danny Davis (D- IL) released the following statement after the House passed S. 2465, Sickle Cell Disease and Other Heritable Blood Disorders Research, Surveillance, Prevention, and Treatment Act of 2018. For several years, Reps. Burgess and Davis have partnered together to introduce bipartisan legislation in the House to combat this deadly disease. “As a physician who cared for patients with sickle cell disease at Parkland Hospital, I’ve seen firsthand the devastating effect it can have. The Sickle Cell Disease and Other Heritable Blood Disorders Research, Surveillance, Prevention, and Treatment Act provides an important step forward in ensuring that we have the resources to better understand this disease and to maintain access to services for those affected by it,” said Dr. Burgess. “I am grateful to Congressman Davis and Senators Scott and Booker for their leadership on this issue, and I encourage President Trump to sign this lifesaving law expeditiously.” “This bipartisan legislation remains a health care priority because more than two million Americans, mostly of African descent, have the Sickle Cell trait and more than 70,000 have Sickle Cell Disease (SCD),” said Rep. Davis. “Every year 130 additional Illinois children are diagnosed with SCD. It has been my privilege to partner with Dr. Burgess on finding critical new resources to further research and treatment of Sickle Cell since 2003. With the passage of this legislation today we are helping to extend lives and move science closer to a real cure.” ###
12.11.2018	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, and Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1318, Preventing Maternal Deaths Act of 2018. Rep. Herrera Beutler’s bill will address the complex issue of maternal mortality by enabling states to form maternal mortality review committees to evaluate, improve, and standardize their maternal death data. “All pregnancy-related and pregnancy-associated deaths are tragic, and some are preventable. Every one of us must do a better job ensuring quality care for mothers throughout pregnancy and during the post-partum period,” said Dr. Burgess. “As an OB/GYN for nearly three decades and chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, I believe it should be a national goal to eliminate all preventable maternal deaths - a single one is too many. For families in North Texas and around the country, the passage of this bill has personal significance, and I am grateful that many have contributed their voices to this effort. I thank Rep. Herrera Beutler for her dedication to our nation’s mothers and for shining light on this critical issue. The Senate should consider this bill and send it to President Trump’s desk as soon as possible.” “Today marks an important day in addressing our country’s maternal mortality crisis, as this is the largest step Congress has taken to date to reverse it. By providing states with resources to investigate every maternal death, we can begin to tackle this troubling trend and take appropriate interventions to prevent such tragedies in the future,” said Rep. Herrera Beutler. “As a mom and a lawmaker, this is personal to me and it was an honor to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to lead this life-saving measure successfully through the House. We must improve our understanding of why moms are dying in pregnancy and childbirth so we can then unleash every possible resource to protect women in this critical season of life. I hope the Senate will take swift action to pass this critical legislation so we can send it to the President’s desk.” For further information, please see the full text of H.R. 1318. ###
12.07.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the Senate advanced H.R. 315, the Improving Access to Maternity Care Act. Dr. Burgess introduced this legislation on January 5, 2017 and it passed unanimously in the House on January 9, 2017. “As an OB/GYN who spent nearly three decades providing care to mothers and babies in North Texas, I am delighted that my bill to expand access to maternity care is headed to President Trump’s desk to become the law of the land. With yesterday’s Senate passage, we have come one step closer to delivering the quality, consistent maternity care that helps to ensure a safe and healthy pregnancy regardless of where a woman lives. I look forward to seeing President Trump sign this lifesaving bill into law as soon as possible.” ###
12.01.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the extraordinary life and legacy of President George H.W. Bush. “Along with a grateful nation, I celebrate the life of former President George H.W. Bush, who lived out American values on the front lines of our nation’s history. As the youngest naval aviator to serve in World War II, he defended his country in the Pacific theater at one of its darkest hours. From the Yale baseball diamond to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to the streets of Beijing to the halls of the White House, President Bush led a life of humble leadership, courage, and conviction. Though he held many prestigious positions, he will be long remembered for the roles he held most dear: as a devoted husband to Barbara Pierce and a loving father and grandfather. President Bush made an indelible mark on Americans across the nation. There is no doubt that the State of Texas, the United States of America, and the global community are better because of George H.W. Bush, and we are grateful to his family for sharing him with us.” ###
11.27.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement on the migrant caravan. "My foremost priority is to protect my fellow Texans and the American people. As we have seen, some members of the migrant caravan have resorted to violence as they attempted to force their way across the southern border. Considering that America generously welcomes more than a million immigrants each year, such lawlessness is a flagrant disservice to legitimate asylum seekers and those who play by the rules. As a nation, we must ensure that our immigration laws are enforced. I will continue to work alongside President Trump to secure America’s borders, restore order at ports of entry, and protect legitimate asylum seekers.” ###
11.16.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the below statement on the Department of Defense’s (DOD) first-ever agency-wide audit. “The American military is the arsenal of our democracy, and it is imperative that Congress has an accurate understanding of its resources. American taxpayers have the right to know what we've bought, how much it cost, where it is, whether it's working, and what we need for the future. The Pentagon must be held to the same level of accountability as other agencies when it comes to the spending of taxpayer dollars. Quite simply, the national defense is too important to remain a black box. “After almost thirty years of neglecting to complete a required audit, it is encouraging that the DOD has at last followed through on its obligation to the American people. Despite failing the audit, its completion provides a much-needed baseline from which to begin additional oversight. As Congress seeks to rebuild our Armed Forces, it is more important than ever to ensure that the DOD is working to meet its full potential. To best serve our men and women in uniform, we must guarantee that funding is allocated where needed most. Though much oversight work remains, this is a positive step forward.” Background: In 1990, Congress passed the Chief Financial Officers Act requiring every department and agency in the federal government to produce verifiable financial statements that can be fully audited. Until this year, the Department of Defense was the only agency that failed to complete this task. For nearly five years, Dr. Burgess has been committed to ensuring that the DOD is a responsible steward of American taxpayer dollars. Since 2015, his amendment to require an agency-wide audit has been included in the National Defense Authorization Act. ###
11.09.2018	Lake Dallas, T.X. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement after he presented five North Texas veterans with the 2018 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation (CVC). Established in 2005, this commendation honors distinguished veterans who have continued their dedication to the nation by serving their local community. “As we mark 100 years since the end of World War I, it is more important than ever to honor the sacrifice of our nation’s veterans. Today it was a privilege to pay tribute to five outstanding North Texas veterans who have answered the call to serve. While these selfless patriots have retired their service uniforms, they remain dedicated to their North Texas neighbors and our community. Today and every day, I am sincerely grateful for their contributions to Texas and our nation.” The five recipients of the 2018 Congressional Commendation are: Virgil Aldag (U.S. Army), Denton Lewis Duckwall II (U.S. Marine Corps), Lake Dallas Robert Lessard (U.S. Army), Aubrey Christopher Martin (U.S. Army), Argyle Gustav Wittschack (U.S. Army), Cross Roads Photo: (front row left to right) Christopher Martin, Gustav Wittschack, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (back row left to right) Virgil Aldag, Lewis Duckwall II, Robert Lessard This year’s awards were presented at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon hosted by the City of Highland Village and the Highland Village Business Association. Nominations were received from the community and veterans’ organizations. In addition to the commendation, Dr. Burgess presented a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol to each recipient. ###
10.24.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after he joined President Trump as he signed H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, into law. “Our nation’s opioid crisis has touched every facet of American life. This law provides realistic solutions that span the breadth of the crisis – from prevention and treatment to education and enforcement. With President Trump’s signature, our legislation will improve treatment for those with substance use disorder, fight deadly fentanyl, bolster the efforts of agents at our international mail facilities, and provide vital resources for new innovative alternatives to treat pain. “As a doctor serving in Congress, it has been a privilege to play a role in the passage of this life-saving legislation. I am grateful to the many Americans in recovery, courageous families, and dedicated experts who have worked with the Health Subcommittee during each step of this process. It is my sincere hope that our collaborative efforts will spare any additional American families from the devastation of opioid addiction and provide hope to those who have been touched by this crisis.” ###
10.17.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, recently introduced a resolution, H.Res. 1092, to redirect American foreign assistance provided to El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras away from the central governments of those countries to target the entities working to address the drivers of illegal immigration from these countries to the United States. In 2018, 30 percent of those apprehended at the border have begun their journeys in El Salvador, Guatemala, or Honduras. The amount redirected from the central governments of these countries to non-governmental, non-profit, and other entities will equal the amount of unaccompanied children from each country in Office of Refugee Resettlement (HHS-ORR) custody multiplied by $15,000. Since 2014, Dr. Burgess has prioritized Congressional oversight of HHS-ORR operations, making nearly ten trips to ORR-funded facilities. Most recently, he toured a shelter in Tornillo, T.X. on Monday, October 15. As expressed in H.Res. 1092, Dr. Burgess is committed to finding permanent solutions to end the cycle of irregular migration and restore order on America’s southern border. “Each month, more than 30,000 people cross America’s southern border without the benefit of citizenship, thousands of whom are children. All Americans can agree that a lack of border security endangers our country. As Congress considers solutions for our nation’s immigration crisis, we must consider why families are willing to embark on a dangerous journey to reach our southern border. This summer, I visited El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras to learn firsthand about the immigration, humanitarian, and energy challenges in this region. Unfortunately, each of these countries has a cycle of gang violence, poverty, and corruption that leads to irregular migration. “To break this cycle, we must end the status quo. Foreign leaders must be held accountable for the wellbeing of their fellow citizens. My resolution, H.Res. 1092, expresses the sense of the House that foreign assistance provided to these nations should be targeted to the community-building entities working to address the drivers of illegal immigration. America’s foreign assistance funds are much better spent helping to provide a safe home for children in Central American countries than spent caring for these children in taxpayer-funded shelters once they reach our borders. While not a perfect solution, this is yet another step toward securing American borders.” The full text of H.Res. 1092 is available here. ###
10.06.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement today after the U.S. Senate confirmed Judge Brett Kavanaugh to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court. “Judge Brett Kavanaugh is a qualified jurist who will uphold the original interpretation of the U.S. Constitution as the Framers intended. Along with many North Texans, I believe Judge Kavanaugh will be a fair and impartial justice on our nation’s highest court. I thank my Senators, John Cornyn and Ted Cruz, for their efforts to confirm Judge Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court of the United States. Following this astonishingly cruel process at the hands of Senate Democrat obstructionists, the Senate must resume its work on the important issues before our nation.” ###
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, which now heads to the Senate for a final vote. “Substance use disorder does not discriminate, but rather affects Americans in every neighborhood from coast to coast. Sadly, this crisis is claiming 115 lives each day. Today, the House took another step forward in our fight against this deadly crisis. After many months of research, hearings, and markups, the United States House of Representatives has passed the most comprehensive legislation to combat opioid abuse in our nation’s history. “Throughout the drafting process, I have heard from brave Americans in recovery, too many grieving families, and many experts on the front lines of this fight. I am grateful to advocates, including North Texan Kathy O’Keefe, who have courageously shared their personal stories with Congress as we seek to end this crisis next door. H.R. 6 is for them, and I urge the Senate to follow suit so this lifesaving legislation can become the law of the land.” As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, Dr. Burgess has led much of the House’s work to build comprehensive legislation to tackle many aspects of opioid abuse, from prevention and education to treatment and enforcement. Working with fellow Members on a bipartisan basis, Dr. Burgess presided over a Members’ Day hearing, several legislative hearings, and two markups over the last year. ###
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 302, the Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization Act of 2018. This FAA reauthorization includes Dr. Burgess’ amendment to prohibit armed drones without FAA authorization. “North Texas is home to a number of outstanding aviation professionals who rely on the vital work of the Federal Aviation Administration to keep American airspace safe. This reauthorization will maintain the resources needed to support upgrades to our nation’s aviation infrastructure, advance aviation safety and security, and keep American innovation competitive at the global level. I am pleased that this legislation includes my amendment to prohibit the weaponization of drones. As recreational use of drones increases, safety measures also most advance. It is imperative that we take steps to protect the public before death by armed drone becomes a headline. I urge the Senate to take up this bill quickly and send it to President Trump’s desk.” Dr. Burgess first introduced the No Armed Drones Act in 2012. For further information, watch Dr. Burgess’ Floor remarks on the amendment and read USA Today’s coverage of this legislation. ###
09.25.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 6378, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act of 2018, and the “gag clause” bills. “With today’s passage of these bills, the House has continued to deliver on its promise to improve health care for the American people. In addition to providing a critical reauthorization of key preparedness and response programs, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act also includes my MISSION ZERO Act to connect battle-tested trauma care with American patients. While unfortunately no community is immune from trauma injuries, forming lifesaving partnerships between military trauma care providers and civilian physicians can ensure that American patients have access to quality trauma care and that our military trauma professionals maintain readiness. First passed by the House in February, MISSION ZERO is now another step closer to becoming the law of the land. “As Republicans work alongside President Trump to lower prescription drug prices for the American people, banning ‘gag clauses’ has been a shared goal of both the House and Senate. Recently, the House Energy and Commerce Committee advanced H.R. 6733, the Know the Cost Act of 2018. As an original cosponsor of this legislation, I believe that today’s passage of the Senate companion bills is another step in the right direction. While eliminating burdensome gag clauses may not solve every aspect of the drug pricing issue, it will have an immediate benefit for those that are impacted most – patients at the pharmacy counter. I am grateful to my fellow Health Subcommittee members Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN) and Rep. Buddy Carter (R-GA) for their respective work on these important priorities and their help in bringing them across the finish line.” ###
09.20.2018	Washington, D.C. — This week, President Trump signed the bipartisan Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018 into law. Authored by Texans Energy and Commerce Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), this law invests in our nation’s pediatric workforce to ensure that another generation of pediatricians will be equipped to care for America’s youngest patients. This vital legislation to reauthorize the Children's Hospitals Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program is named in honor of Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks – a trailblazing pediatric surgeon who was born in Lewisville, Texas a century ago. Dr. Brooks (1918-1998) was the first woman to become a pediatric surgeon in the state of Texas. In the span of her long career as a surgeon, researcher, and child advocate, Dr. Brooks also taught and trained many medical students, including Dr. Burgess. “The bipartisan Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018 will ensure that children in Texas and around the country continue to have access to highly-trained pediatricians and pediatric subspecialists,” said Dr. Burgess. “As one of her students, I am grateful that this law is named in honor of Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks – a trailblazing pediatric surgeon and Lewisville native. It is a fitting tribute to an outstanding surgeon, who I imagine would be glad to see her name on a law that will help another generation of physicians to excel. I also am grateful to my fellow Texan Rep. Gene Green for his work authoring this legislation with me, and to President Trump for helping to steward this vital reauthorization across the finish line.” “A robust pediatric workforce is essential to ensuring that no child lacks access to high-quality medical care,” said Rep. Green. “CHGME recipient hospitals represent less than one percent of all hospitals, yet train half of all the nation’s pediatricians and pediatric specialists. Reauthorizing CHGME represents a commitment to ensuring that children throughout the country have access to the quality care they need. The current authorization will expire at the end of the current fiscal year, so it is important that we reauthorize this important program.” “Texas is the fastest growing state in the nation, and young Texans need more physicians here to keep them healthy and well,” said Texas Medical Association President Douglas W. Curran, MD. “We salute Congressmen Burgess and Green for their work in passing the Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018, and we thank President Trump for signing it into law. Research shows that physicians tend to set up practice where they complete their residency training, so this reauthorization will translate directly into more physicians for Texas.” Full text of the law is available here. ###
09.18.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after President Trump signed the Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018 into law. “The bipartisan Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018 will ensure that children in Texas and around the country continue to have access to highly-trained pediatricians and pediatric subspecialists,” said Dr. Burgess. “As one of her students, I am grateful that this law is named in honor of Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks – a trailblazing pediatric surgeon and Lewisville native. It is a fitting tribute to an outstanding surgeon, who I imagine would be glad to see her name on a law that will help another generation of physicians to excel. I also am grateful to my fellow Texan Rep. Gene Green for his work authoring this legislation with me, and to President Trump for helping to steward this vital reauthorization across the finish line.” ###
08.30.2018	Lake Dallas, T.X. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, last week traveled to Central America in a continuation of his work to seek meaningful solutions to our nation’s immigration crisis. He visited El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala to learn firsthand about the immigration, humanitarian, and energy challenges in this region. Since 2014, the United States has received a large number of unaccompanied alien minors who have fled from the nations of El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala. Those who attempt to reach the United States border from these nations face a dangerous journey, including potential violence from gangs and other hazards. In order to help prevent such perilous journeys and end the dangerous practice of illegal border crossings, Dr. Burgess is committed to working with the Trump Administration and fellow Members of Congress to find permanent solutions for the humanitarian crises in the nations of El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala. “Sovereign nations must prioritize the defense of their borders. As we seek to reverse the current crisis on our southern border, we should consider why families in Central America send their children on a dangerous journey to America without the benefit of citizenship,” said Dr. Burgess. “I am encouraged by USAID’s current work to end the cycle of this humanitarian crisis, but there is more to be done. Foreign leaders must be held accountable for the wellbeing of their fellow citizens. Aid can be a powerful motivator, particularly when its availability is tied to a nation’s efforts to create a safe home for its people. America’s foreign aid funds are much better spent helping to provide a safe home for children in Central American countries than spent caring for these children in taxpayer-funded shelters once they reach our borders.” Throughout the region, poverty and corruption contribute significantly to humanitarian deficiencies; however, each nation is taking an individual approach to ending the factors that spur human migration. Below are several highlights from each leg of Dr. Burgess’ trip. El Salvador In San Salvador, Dr. Burgess received in-depth briefings from embassy staff and met with local authorities, including Zacatecoluca Mayor Francisco Hirezi, members from the Crime Prevention Committee, and USAID staff, to discuss efforts to promote safety. Additionally, he toured both the Sports Center Hato Hasbunand, an outreach center for migrants, as well as a Reception Center for Migrants. During this visit, Dr. Burgess met with a number of immigration officials and youth beneficiaries. Honduras Dr. Burgess met with a number of officials during his time in Honduras, including First Lady Ana García Carías and her taskforce to address irregular immigration, Minister of Human Rights Karla Cueva, and representatives from USAID. During his visit, Dr. Burgess was encouraged by the Honduran leaders’ commitment to the young people of their nation and their efforts to end emigration from their country. While in Honduras, Dr. Burgess also toured the Joint Task Force Bravo at Soto Cano Air Base, where he met with American servicemembers. Guatemala In Guatemala City, Dr. Burgess traveled to the USAID-supported Shelter Amor Sin Fronteras, where he met staff members and the young girls in their care. He also toured a Migration Reception Center where he met with immigration officials and learned about the process of receiving Guatemalan immigrants upon return to their home country. For more on Dr. Burgess’ work to secure America’s borders, please see his latest Floor speech and his op-ed in The Daily Signal. ###
08.25.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the life and legacy of Senator John McCain. “Senator John McCain was an American hero who dedicated his life to serving the American people. From a POW camp in Vietnam to the halls of the Russell Senate Office Building, Senator McCain embodied the American spirit of patriotism, dedication, and service. A proven warrior, Senator McCain used his influence in Congress to fight for veterans and members of the Armed Forces, his fellow Arizonans, and all Americans. “During the 2008 presidential election, it was a privilege to work alongside Senator McCain as he shaped his health policy platform. Despite falling short of the White House, there is no question Senator McCain made an indelible impression on the American people. His servant-hearted leadership and service will be deeply missed in the halls of Congress and around the country. I extend my condolences to Cindy, the McCain family, and all who knew him.” ###
07.30.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, spoke on the House Floor last week about the history of several Administrations’ use of “zero-tolerance” immigration policy throughout American history. Using case studies of Presidents Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, and Barack Obama’s enforcement policies, Dr. Burgess traces the roots of today’s immigration chaos, and offers a path forward to securing our borders. Key Excerpts: There is significant proof that an enforcement-first policy deters people from subjecting themselves to harm by taking the perilous trip to the American border, whether it be by land or by sea. … From Governor Clinton’s [1992 campaign] promises, the people of Haiti expected to be welcomed into the United States with open arms. The problem is, after securing the White House, President-Elect Clinton had a change of heart. … The traffickers and coyotes in Central America use our words – our words spoken here on the floor of this House in Washington, D.C. – they use our words to prey on the disadvantaged in Central American countries. They encourage families to put their children on top of a freight train – the train called La Bestia – from southern Mexico to the Rio Grande, subjecting their children to violence of cartels or worse. These are children, some of whom will not arrive in the United States due to the dangers of their journey. … When we say – or even suggest – that children could receive amnesty at the border, we put innocent lives at risk. We can be compassionate, and we can provide a secure border at the same time. These two concepts are not mutually exclusive. … Perhaps our foreign aid – to countries such as Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala, and even Mexico – should be tied to how they care for their children. Here’s the deal: Why should we reward countries whose children are fleeing for their safety to the United States? … For more of this speech, please watch his full remarks.
07.25.2018	Lake Dallas, TX– Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) announced today that he will host town hall meetings on Tuesday, July 31 and Thursday, August 2. During these town hall meetings, Congressman Burgess will discuss important issues facing Americans and the work he is doing in Congress to strengthen our national security, bolster our economy, and make health care affordable for all Americans. Residents of the 26th District of Texas will have the opportunity to ask Congressman Burgess questions. JULY 31 TOWN HALL WITH CONGRESSMAN BURGESS WHEN: Tuesday, July 31 at 7pm to 8pm WHERE: Keller Central High School, 9450 Ray White Road, Fort Worth, TX 76244 AUGUST 2 TOWN HALL WITH CONGRESSMAN BURGESS WHEN: Thursday, August 2 at 7pm to 8pm WHERE: New Life Community Church, 25631 Smotherman Road, Frisco, TX 75033 The event is free and open to all TX-26 residents. Credentialed press planning to cover either or both meetings must RSVP to RepBurgessPress@mail.house.gov. ###
07.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 5385). The bill, which is sponsored by Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX) and Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Chairman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), will reauthorize the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program for the next five years at $325 million – a $25 million increase. The Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program provides direct financial support to children’s hospitals to train medical residents and fellows. Hospitals typically receive support for graduate medical education (GME) through Medicare, and those payments are provided to hospitals based on their Medicare patient volume. Because the Medicare program is used primarily by people who are over the age of 65, and children’s hospitals treat primarily people below the age of 18, children’s hospitals have low Medicare patient volume and receive few Medicare GME payments. “Our children deserve the best care available to them, and ensuring we have an adequately-prepared pediatric workforce is the first step in providing quality health care,” said Dr. Burgess. “The bipartisan Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018 will ensure that children in Texas and around the country continue to have access to these specialized physicians. It is an honor to sponsor this vital legislation named for Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks – an iconic North Texan pediatric surgeon who broke barriers each day with her work to help children, train future physicians, and provide innovative care.” “A robust pediatric workforce is essential to ensuring that no child lacks access to high-quality medical care,” said Rep. Green. “The CHGME recipient hospitals represent less than one percent of all hospitals, yet train half of all the nation’s pediatricians and pediatric specialists. Reauthorizing CHGME represents a commitment to ensuring that children throughout the country have access to the quality care they need. The current authorization will expire at the end of the current fiscal year, so it is important that we reauthorize this important program.” Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA). Text of the bill can be read HERE. Background on Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Dr. Brooks who was the first pediatric surgeon in Texas in 1958. She was raised in Lewisville, Texas, and received her M.D. from the UT Medical Branch in Galveston and performed pediatric surgery at Texas Children’s Hospital and St. Joseph’s Hospital in Houston. In 1973, she joined the newly formed University of Texas Medical School as a tenured full professor and established the Division of Pediatric Surgery, which she headed for the next 10 years. ###
07.23.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed two important public health bills today that will expand the medical workforce, H.R. 3728, the Educating Medical Professionals and Optimizing Workforce Efficiency Readiness (EMPOWER) Act, and H.R. 5385, the Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018. “These important, bipartisan public health bills will ensure that American patients have access to skilled physicians and medical professionals – regardless of where they live. I introduced the EMPOWER Act to support physician workforce programs. By reauthorizing key Title VII funding, this bill will increase access to physicians and other providers in underserved areas, and promote training opportunities for physicians to maintain and improve their skills. “The Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018, which I co-sponsored with fellow Texan Rep. Gene Green, will ensure that children in Texas and around the country have access to quality health care by maintaining and growing our pediatric workforce. As a physician who practiced medicine in Lewisville, T.X., it is a special honor to name this important legislation for Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks – a North Texas pediatric surgeon whose groundbreaking work broke barriers for women in medicine. I urge the Senate to take action on these commonsense, bipartisan bills as soon as possible.” ###
07.16.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the reintroduction of H.R. 6370, the Targeting Rogue and Opaque Letters (TROL) Act of 2018. Dr. Burgess originally introduced this legislation during the 114th Congress, at which time he served as chairman of the former Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade. “Entrepreneurship and innovation are key pillars of American opportunity. Too often, patent trolls foil good progress with frivolous legal action amounting to an unfair or deceptive act under the Federal Trade Commission. The TROL Act will bolster transparency and accountability to protect legitimate patent holders and stop bad actors. This bill will help protect the intellectual property – and potential for success – of North Texans and Americans around the country.” More information on this legislation is available here. ###
07.12.2018	Lake Dallas, T.X.— Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) today announced a salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. “Through their service to our nation, American veterans have preserved our freedom and the many liberties we enjoy,” said Dr. Burgess. “These brave men and women deserve our gratitude and praise. It is a privilege to recognize outstanding veterans in Texas’ 26th Congressional District by honoring their service with the 2018 Congressional Veteran Commendation.” To nominate a veteran for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation, please fill out the nomination form, which can be found on Congressman Burgess’ website. The deadline to submit a nomination is September 17, 2018. The completed nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, should be submitted to Congressman Burgess’ Lake Dallas office. To be eligible for nomination, veterans must currently be residing in the 26th District of Texas, have served the nation honorably during their military career, and subsequently demonstrated dedication to their community. Individuals selected to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation will be recognized and honored at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association on November 9, 2018. Those who receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation will be given the opportunity to submit an interview to the Library of Congress’ Veterans History Project. For more information on this project, visit the Library of Congress’ website. For additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the 26th District of Texas, please contact Congressman Burgess’ Deputy District Director, Robin Vaughan, at (940) 497-5031. ###
07.10.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after initiating a bipartisan congressional delegation of Energy and Commerce Committee members to tour immigration facilities and shelters in the southern border towns of McAllen and Brownsville. Throughout Monday, the delegation visited a Customs and Border Protection Processing Center and an Immigration and Customs Enforcement Detention Center. These Members of Congress completed a tour of the border and a port of entry, and received briefings from Department of Homeland Security staff. The delegation also visited a Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of Refugee Resettlement shelter for unaccompanied children in Brownsville. “Yesterday a bipartisan group of Members of Congress traveled to McAllen and Brownsville to witness firsthand the situation on our southern border. I am grateful that fellow members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, including several of whom were visiting for the first time, joined me for this trip. As we focus on reforming our nation’s immigration laws, it is important to have an accurate understanding of the border facilities and the federal departments for which we maintain oversight. We saw every step in the process, from apprehension along the border and processing to placement in a shelter. In addition, we had a productive visit to a shelter for unaccompanied children. “Similar to my recent visit at a Department of Health and Human Services shelter in Tornillo, I once again saw children receiving excellent, professional care from HHS staff. This wasn’t my first trip to the border, and it certainly won’t be my last. Moving forward, I will continue to work with Secretary Azar, the Department of Health and Human Services, and fellow Members of Congress to ensure that all children entrusted to federal custody receive excellent care.” ###
07.05.2018	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, this week sent a letter to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services advocating for the reunification of families separated on the southern border. Joined by Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI) and Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN), Dr. Burgess has asked HHS to utilize innovative biotechnology to simplify the reunification of children and parents. Read the full letter below. Dear Mr. Wagner and Mr. Lloyd: We are writing today regarding the Office of Refugee Resettlement’s (ORR) role in the swift reunification of children and parents separated at the U.S.-Mexico border. As you know, President Trump recently put an end to the practice of family separation with an executive order. We welcome the president’s action. While we fully support securing our southern border, there is broad bipartisan agreement that policies allowing children to be separated from parents charged with illegal entry are not consistent with our nation’s values or humanitarian responsibilities. With an end to this practice, our attention must now turn to the swift reunification of children and parents separated over the last several months. According to reports, some of these children transferred to organizations in Michigan, Texas, and across the country are as young as eight-months-old. It is imperative that these children be reunited with their parents as quickly as possible. At the same time, we recognize the challenges ORR may face in accurately but swiftly determining the biological relationships of separated children and adults. Given the urgency and challenges of the situation, we are seeking clarification on ORR’s process for verifying the relationship between children and adults separated at the border and whether the agency is utilizing, or plans to utilize, DNA analyzing technology. This technology is readily available, provides for rapid and accurate testing, and is already used by the Department of Homeland Security to confirm biological relationships of refugee applicants. As you may have seen, several leading biotechnology companies have offered to donate significant resources to support efforts to reunite children and parents. This “Rapid DNA” technology provides fast sample processing that delivers a result in 90 minutes and requires only minutes of hands-on prep time. The results can be forwarded directly to an authorized party, with samples destroyed after processing to ensure privacy protections. Considering these advantages and the challenges the department faces in accurately determining parentage relationships, we urge HHS and ORR to consider the use of rapid DNA analyzing technology to expedite the accurate reunification of parents and children and request responses to the following questions: What is ORR’s process for verifying parentage relationships between children and adults separated at the U.S.-Mexico border? On average, how long does it take to verify parentage? On average, how long does it take to reunite separated children and parents? Has ORR considered the use of DNA analyzing technology to quickly and accurately verify the relationship between children and parents? If not, why not? In the agency’s understanding, do any statutory or other barriers exist, such as privacy and security requirements, to implementing such a program? If so, what are they? As Congress continues to work fix our broken immigration system, we must not lose sight of the immediate need to reunite separated families as quickly as possible. We thank you for your attention to our request and look forward to your prompt response. There must be no delay in reuniting families. ###
07.02.2018	Lake Dallas, T.X.— Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the death of former Denton Mayor Euline Williams Brock, who served in this office from 2000-2006. “Euline Williams Brock was a generous, courageous, and dedicated community leader who spent her life serving others. From advocating for civil rights to running for local office, Mayor Brock always was at the forefront of progress. Before serving three terms as the mayor of Denton, she was an active council member and community organizer. A valued educator, Mayor Brock enriched the lives of students across North Texas. She was a loyal friend to Texas Woman’s University and the University of North Texas, where she earned her Ph.D. in 1974. Her death is a loss for Denton and our North Texas community. I offer my condolences to her husband Horace and their family.” ###
06.21.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018. “All Americans rely on our nation’s agriculture community each day for safe and healthy food. This bill gives farmers the support they need while making smart improvements to existing programs. As Congress considers ways to spur our economy and bolster its growth, I support this bill’s efforts to help Americans get back to work.” ###
06.15.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) recently introduced the Increasing Access to Care Act, legislation aimed at increasing the affordability of health care for American families by permitting individuals to purchase “copper level” health insurance coverage. Last year, Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) introduced companion legislation of the same title. "With the advent of the Affordable Care Act, Americans have been severely limited – if not functionally uninsured – by sky-high premiums and inaccessible health care rates. This bill will give American families more options and the freedom to choose health insurance that makes the most sense for them,” said Dr. Burgess. “I appreciate Senator Scott’s partnership in this work to restore affordable health care choices and liberty to the American people.” “Our goal should be to help our families gain greater access to affordable and flexible healthcare plans that meet their individual needs,” said Sen. Scott. “That is why I introduced my bipartisan Increasing Access to Care Act as a way to ensure folks are able to choose plans that help them get the coverage they need and prevent them from falling into medical bankruptcy when emergencies happen. I am glad to see Dr. Burgess has taken on this effort in the House and we look forward to continuing to advocate for this change and give Americans the power of choice when it comes to purchasing insurance.” For more information, please see the full text of H.R. 6050. ###
06.12.2018	Lake Dallas, TX– Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) announced today that he will host a town hall meeting on Monday, June 18 beginning at 7pm at Denton High School in Denton. During this town hall, Congressman Burgess will discuss the important issues facing Americans and the work he is doing in Congress to strengthen our national security, stabilize our economy and make health care affordable for all Americans. Residents of the 26th district of Texas will also have the opportunity to ask Congressman Burgess questions. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting with Congressman Michael Burgess WHEN: Monday, June 18, 2018 at 7pm to 8pm WHERE: Denton High School, 1007 Fulton Street, Denton, TX 76201 The event is free and open to all TX-26 residents. ONLY press wishing to cover the event must RSVP to RepBurgessPress@mail.house.gov. ###
06.12.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after President Trump’s summit with North Korea in Singapore. “Today’s summit in Singapore is tangible evidence that President Trump is achieving unprecedented progress with his peace-seeking efforts. Under President Trump’s leadership, this year the world witnessed Kim Jong Un cross the DMZ and embrace President Moon Jae In – an act that would have been inconceivable mere months ago. North Korea’s participation in today’s summit is an encouraging step in the right direction, and I am grateful for President Trump and Secretary Pompeo’s leadership in this process.” ###
06.05.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on S. 292, the Childhood Cancer STAR Act of 2018. Pictured: Dr. Burgess at the White House with Sadie Keller and her mother Sarah Keller “It was a privilege to join President Trump today as he signed the Childhood Cancer STAR Act into law. Building on the work of the 21st Century Cures Act, this law will help to deliver innovative treatments – and cures – to America’s youngest cancer patients. I am grateful for the young patients and cancer survivors, including 26th District constituent and childhood cancer survivor Sadie Keller, who have shared their stories and advocated for this critical legislation. Now the law of the land, the Childhood Cancer STAR Act offers renewed hope to these children and their families, and fulfills yet another promise to the American people.” ###
06.01.2018	Lake Dallas, T.X. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today announced the Class of 2022 Service Academy Appointees from the 26th Congressional District. This summer these young men and women will be entering the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, N.Y., the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, M.D., the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, C.O., and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, N.Y. "I was honored to nominate outstanding young men and women as they begin a career in service to our country,” said Dr. Burgess. “The Armed Forces are our arsenal of democracy, and our most critical resource. On behalf of the 26th Congressional District, I commend these young men and women who have pursued and accepted the call to serve.” Pictured: Dr. Burgess and 2018 Service Academy Appointees from TX-26 Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are evaluated rigorously on a variety of criteria including academic performance, leadership qualifications, and physical preparedness. Appointments to an academy must be preceded by a nomination from a Member of Congress, Academy Superintendent, the Vice President or a military-connected nomination. This morning, Dr. Burgess honored these appointees at a reception hosted by The City of The Colony. During the ceremony, American Legion Holley-Riddle Post 21 presented the Colors. The students residing in the 26th Congressional District entering the service academies are as follows: U.S. Military Academy Clayton Brewer (Keller) Hunter Cochran (Westlake) Ben McAfee (Sanger) Charles McCartney (Trophy Club) Matthew Musser (North Richland Hills) Brenden Stanton (Flower Mound) Joshua Williams (Frisco) U.S. Naval Academy Duke Carrillo (Flower Mound) Dylan Carrillo (Flower Mound) Katherine Halbert (Keller) Lexis Nelson (Keller) Nick Sigman (Frisco) Peng Thang (Lewisville) U.S. Air Force Academy Rayomand Bam (Flower Mound) Brayden Dragoo (Flower Mound) Alicia Kwasny (Keller) Moh-Julien Ntchobo (North Richland Hills) U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Hayden Grant (Trophy Club) Michael Sobieski (Frisco) ###
05.30.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on S. 204, the Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2017. “It was an honor to join President Trump today as he signed Right to Try into law, delivering on our promise to offer renewed hope to Americans suffering from terminal illness. These patients deserve a fighting chance at life – they deserve the ‘right to try.’ It has been a privilege to play a role in this legislation’s journey from bill to law. Last year, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health held a hearing with experts and sought input from patients, advocates, the Administration, and stakeholders on all sides of this issue. “At his State of the Union address, President Trump told Congress that ‘people who are terminally ill should not have to go from country to country to seek a cure.’ Along with President Trump, I agree that we should give these Americans the right to try right here at home. It is far past time that we deliver hope to the suffering, and with the President’s signature, Right to Try is at last the law of the land.” ###
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on House passage of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. “Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act, fully funding our Armed Forces for Fiscal Year 2019. This funding will help the military continue to rebuild its equipment and improve training, after far too many years of neglect. President Trump has made this a priority for his Administration, and I stand with him to give American soldiers the best we can offer. “At the same time, I am grateful that my Audit the Pentagon amendment was included in this year’s defense authorization. It is astonishing that the Department of Defense has not accounted for its taxpayer-funded resources. The Department of Defense is the only major agency that has not produced auditable financial statements, as required by the Chief Financial Officers Act passed 28 years ago. Congress must hold the Defense Department accountable as it works toward justifying how each taxpayer dollar is spent. We must ensure that our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to protect Americans at home and abroad.” The Department of Defense is the only major federal agency that has not completed an audit as required by the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990. The Audit the Pentagon amendment would require the Department of Defense to rank its entities in order of audit readiness. Read the full amendment here. ###
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, yesterday asked leaders within the U.S. Olympics community about their ability to protect athletes from sexual abuse during an Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing. In case you missed it, watch the full clip. Key Remarks: “As someone with a medical background, one of the things that has just been very, very difficult for me is how a medical professional has caused all of this damage…This individual, not licensed in Texas, was providing services, care, whatever he did, at the Karolyi Ranch in Texas – but not licensed by the state of Texas. How do you go about ensuring that physicians that are taking care of your athletes are compliant with licensing obligations?" … “To point out the obvious here, you had an unlicensed physician taking care of people. I don’t know if the parents of these children were apprised of the fact: there’s a physician who’s not licensed in the state of the Texas that’s going to be participating in the training program. Wrong on so many levels. And now, unfortunately we see the consequences of that.” … “We can think we’ve got it right, and then it turns out we didn’t get it right. Years later you have to continue to deal with the problems from not getting it right. It is important that we be right on this.” For further details on this hearing, please see more from the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. ###
05.18.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018. “All Americans rely on our nation’s agriculture community each day for safe and healthy food. This year’s farm bill gives farmers the support they need while making smart improvements to existing law. As Congress considers ways to spur our economy and bolster its growth, I support this bill’s efforts to help Americans enter the workforce. While this legislation hit a roadblock today, I am hopeful that a solution can be reached as soon as possible so that we can ensure the nation’s food supply and get Americans back to work.” ###
05.14.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the opening of the United States Embassy in Jerusalem. “Today’s United States Embassy opening in Jerusalem is further proof that President Trump is keeping his promises to the American people. Seventy years after the official formation of Israel and more than 20 years after the United States Congress voted to recognize Jerusalem as its capital, this move is a strong signal of support for our ally.” ###
05.11.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on President Trump’s remarks about prescription drug pricing. “America is leading the world’s medical innovation, and it is time that the groundbreaking therapies developed here are accessible to American patients. As I listened to President Trump’s remarks at the White House today, I was encouraged by his commitment to lower prescription drug prices for the American people. Today’s announcement is another step of the Administration’s work on this issue, and I am looking forward to working alongside President Trump, Secretary Azar, Dr. Gottlieb, and Administrator Verma as we work to ease burdens and put American patients first. In a world that is rapidly changing, it is time to spur innovation, increase competition, and deliver real results for patients in North Texas and around the country.” ###
05.11.2018	WASHINGTON - During a full week of legislative business, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) worked to find solutions for some of the most pressing issues for North Texans and the American people. Lowering Americans’ Prescription Drug Prices America is leading the world’s medical innovation, and it is time that the groundbreaking therapies developed here are accessible to American patients. On Friday, Dr. Burgess attended President Trump’s remarks on his plan to lower Americans’ prescription drug prices. In a world that is rapidly changing, it is time to spur innovation, increase competition, and deliver real results for patients in North Texas and around the country. Combating the Opioid Crisis This spring, Dr. Burgess has devoted significant time to finding solutions for our nation’s opioid crisis, a multi-faceted issue that will require a comprehensive approach. On Monday, Dr. Burgess attended the launch of First Lady Melania Trump’s BE BEST Initiative. As part of BE BEST, Mrs. Trump will work to help children and families harmed by opioid abuse. For more details, watch his latest update. On Tuesday morning, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a hearing with drug distributors. During the hearing, Dr. Burgess and other subcommittee members asked tough questions about the industry’s role in the opioid crisis. That afternoon, Dr. Burgess chaired a hearing examining an outdated confidentiality law and its impact on victims of opioid abuse. On Wednesday, the full Energy and Commerce Committee advanced 25 bills to combat the opioid crisis, and we expect to see this legislation reach the House Floor in the next several weeks. Welcoming North Texas Leaders This week, Dr. Burgess hosted the Denton County Chambers of Commerce leadership delegation for a productive several days of meetings in Washington to discuss policy that directly impacts North Texas businesses. During their fly-in, the group met with Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson, Speaker Paul Ryan, and fellow Texans Senator Ted Cruz and Chairmen Pete Sessions, Michael McCaul, and Kevin Brady. ###
05.04.2018	Lake Dallas, T.X. — U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) announced the winner of the sixteenth annual 26th Congressional District art competition. The art competition was open to public, private, and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the district. Ms. Lauren Foster, a junior art student of Michelle Harper at Flower Mound High School, won the Grand Prize in the 2018 competition with her color photograph entitled “American Spirit.” “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic achievements of our local high school students and to share the results of those talents with our area and the rest of the country,” said Dr. Burgess. “Lauren’s work makes the 26th District proud. She is a very talented young woman with a tremendous gift.” Congressman Burgess honored the finalists at a May 1 reception at the Patterson-Appleton Art Center in Denton hosted by the art competition’s host, The Greater Denton Arts Council. The juried competition was judged by professional artist, Millie Giles. For the seventh year, entries were submitted digitally by art teachers on behalf of their students. This provided an opportunity for a “Texas Choice” winner to be selected by popular vote in a virtual gallery on Congressman Burgess’ website. Ms. Cecily Anderson was the winner of this category for her artwork entitled “Scooter.” She is a junior at Keller ISD’s Timber Creek High School in Fort Worth and her art instructor is Camille Kerr. In addition, the jurist reviewed the posted artwork and determined the contest finalists based upon artistic merit. She selected a “Best of School” Award for one student from each school based on her appraisal of their work. The Juror's Award was based on her appraisal of artwork that had a high level of artistic merit and execution ranking under that of the Best of School Award. These students also were finalists in the competition. These 57 finalists delivered their artwork to be physically and visually judged for Grand Prize and First Place. The finalists were publicly recognized at the reception by Congressman Burgess with a Certificate of Congressional Recognition. As the Grand Prize winner, Lauren will have her artwork displayed for an entire year in the U.S. Capitol and has the opportunity to attend the national ceremony in Washington, DC in June. The ceremony will honor the winning artists from congressional districts all over the country. In addition, Ms. Maddie Thorn, a junior at Marcus High School in Flower Mound and a student of Melissa Bellevue, won First Place for her colored pencil drawing entitled “Eagle.” Maddie will have her artwork displayed in Congressman Burgess’ Lake Dallas district office for the next year. “Congratulations to Lauren, Maddie, and Cecily for their creative achievements,” said Dr. Burgess. “I was pleased to bring this worthwhile art program to the high school students of the 26th District and look forward to next year’s competition.” ###
04.27.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018. “Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, ensuring that the Federal Aviation Administration will continue to have the resources it needs to support upgrades to our nation’s aviation infrastructure, continue advancing aviation safety and security, and keep American innovation competitive at the global level. North Texas is fortunate to have Fort Worth Alliance Airport, Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, Dallas Love Field, and several municipal airports in our community. As a result, the 26th District of Texas is home to many pilots and aviation-connected professionals. This bill is key to their safety and wellbeing – as well as the many passengers who rely on the aviation system. “Upgrading our aviation system includes the aircraft that operate within the National Air Space. The use of recreational drones has increased rapidly in the past few years, sometimes interfering with commercial aviation operations. As technology progresses, safety measures also must advance. Law enforcement officers have told me their greatest fear with the increase in recreational drone use is their potential to be weaponized. I am pleased that my amendment to prevent a person, unless authorized by the FAA, from operating a drone in the National Air Space that is equipped or armed with a dangerous weapon was passed as part of the FAA Reauthorization Act. While recreational use may continue, it is imperative that we protect the public from unauthorized armed drones.” Full amendment text is available here. ###
04.13.2018	During a full week of legislative business, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) worked to find solutions for some of the most pressing issues for North Texans and the American people. Examining Lessons from Hurricane Harvey On Monday, Dr. Burgess traveled to Cypress, TX for a House Committee on Homeland Security field hearing on the lessons learned from Hurricane Harvey. During the hearing, federal and local leaders testified and answered questions on their abilities to respond to victims of Hurricane Harvey and rebuild the affected areas, particularly in southeast Texas. Getting Answers from Mark Zuckerberg On Wednesday, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testified before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Facebook’s transparency and use of consumer data. During the hearing, Dr. Burgess was the first lawmaker to ask Mr. Zuckerberg what specifically would set apart good “terms and conditions” from current standards. For more, watch their full exchange. Making Progress on Combating the Opioid Crisis As our nation continues to grapple with the heartbreaking opioid crisis, Dr. Burgess is leading the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee to seek solutions for all aspects of opioid abuse, from education and prevention to enforcement and care. Over two days this week, Dr. Burgess chaired a subcommittee hearing examining the ability of Medicare and Medicaid to provide care for patients in the midst of the opioid crisis. Wednesday and Thursday’s hearing, the third in an ongoing series on this important issue, focused on 34 bills - a new record for the Energy and Commerce Committee. ###
04.11.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on Speaker Paul Ryan’s retirement announcement. “Speaker Ryan has been a committed public servant since his election to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1998. As a young congressman, Speaker Ryan quickly rose to become chair of both the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees before earning the Speaker’s gavel. Throughout his congressional career, he has represented Wisconsinites and the American people well. It has been a pleasure to work alongside Speaker Ryan, and we will miss his leadership in the House. I wish the Ryan family the best as they begin a new chapter.” ###
04.03.2018	Lake Dallas, T.X. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today announced the 2018 North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum. The 2018 North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum, jointly hosted by Senator John Cornyn and Senator Ted Cruz, as well as Congressman Sam Johnson, Congressman John Ratcliffe, Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman Joe Barton, Congresswoman Kay Granger, Congressman Kenny Marchant, Congressman Roger Williams, Congressman Michael Burgess, Congressman John Carter, Congressman Pete Sessions and Congressman Marc Veasey, will be held Saturday, April 14th. This informational forum will provide interested students in grades 8-12 the opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission, and the selection process. North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum Date: Saturday, April 14, 2018 Time: 8:00 AM - 12:00 Noon; Registration opens at 7:30 AM Note: This is a “come & stay” event. Place: Mansfield ISD Center for the Performing Arts 1110 W. Debbie Lane Mansfield, Texas 76063 In addition to staff from congressional offices, representatives from all five academies (U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy) and current academy cadets and midshipmen will be on hand to answer questions. Also present will be representatives from Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine Corps ROTC. North Texas students, parents and educators will be able to hear from and meet with these representatives on a one-to-one basis to become informed about the excellent possibilities associated with attending these premier educational institutions and the sorts of careers they generate. The Forum is free and open to the public; no pre-registration is required. It will be held from 8:00 AM – 12:00 NOON; registration opens at 7:30 AM. For more information, please contact: Robin Vaughan, Deputy District Director Office of Congressman Michael Burgess Phone: 940-497-5031 Email: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018. “While imperfect, this appropriations bill provides necessary funding for our Armed Forces, the federal government, and other essential services and programs. In addition to fully funding our national defense at the levels General Mattis requested and authorized in the National Defense Authorization Act for FY18, the bill provides a pay increase -the highest ever - for our troops who sacrifice so much to protect Americans at home and abroad. The appropriations bill also includes many commonsense priorities, such as funding for school safety. It includes provisions for improving our election security and strengthening physical barriers along the southwestern border. Further, this package includes funding for key Energy and Commerce Committee initiatives, such as combating the opioid epidemic and reauthorizing the Federal Communications Commission for the first time since 1990. “While I am relieved that Congress delivered on our responsibility to fund our national defense and the crucial services upon which North Texans and all Americans rely, I acknowledge that the appropriations process is deeply flawed. Moving forward, the Senate must reconsider the 60 vote threshold for spending bills.” ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, two Energy and Commerce Committee members introduced bipartisan legislation that would reauthorize the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program for five years at $330 million for the fiscal year 2019. The bill is sponsored by Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Chairman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX). The Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program provides direct financial support to children’s hospitals to train medical residents and fellows. The program is administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and is authorized in Section 340E of the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) Hospitals typically receive support for graduate medical education (GME) through Medicare, and those payments are provided to hospitals based on their Medicare patient volume. Because the Medicare program is used primarily by people who are over the age of 65, and children’s hospitals treat primarily people below the age of 18, children’s hospitals have low Medicare patient volume and receive few Medicare GME payments. “Children’s access to quality healthcare is a key priority for me, and reauthorizing the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education is yet another step in our bipartisan commitment to ensure children’s teaching hospitals have the resources to train the next generation of pediatricians and pediatric specialists,” said Rep. Burgess. “Strengthening the pediatric workforce and propelling innovative pediatric research are critical components realized through this program. Throughout his time in Congress, Rep. Green has been a tireless advocate for children’s health care, and I appreciate my fellow Texan’s work on this important issue.” “A robust pediatric workforce is essential to ensuring that no child lacks access to high-quality medical care,” said Rep. Green. “The CHGME recipient hospitals represent less than one percent of all hospitals, yet train half of all the nation’s pediatricians and pediatric specialists. Reauthorizing CHGME represents a commitment to ensuring that children throughout the country have access to the quality care they need.” Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA). ###
03.21.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 5247, the Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2018. “The Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2018 offers hope to Americans suffering from terminal illness while maintaining the vital work and mission of the Food and Drug Administration. This legislation is a direct product of input from patients, advocates, the Administration, and stakeholders on all sides of this issue. At his State of the Union address, President Trump told Congress that ‘people who are terminally ill should not have to go from country to country to seek a cure.’ Along with President Trump, I agree that we should give these Americans the right to try right here at home. I am grateful to President Trump and Vice President Pence for their leadership on this issue, and I urge swift action in the Senate.” ###
03.16.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after learning of the passing of Rep. Louise Slaughter of New York. “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Rep. Louise Slaughter. It has been a privilege to serve alongside her in the Rules Committee. While we did not always agree on matters of policy, I always have respected Rep. Slaughter’s commitment to the people of New York and our nation. Not only was she a fellow Member of the Rules Committee, but also a fellow scientist. A microbiologist, Rep. Slaughter added great value to every conversation on science and technology. She will be greatly missed by our committee and the entire U.S. House of Representatives. My prayers are with the Slaughter family and all those who knew her.” ###
03.13.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the Secretary of State. “Secretary Rex Tillerson, a constituent of the 26th District, has served our nation honorably as both a private citizen and public servant. As a former leader in the energy industry, Secretary Tillerson never hesitated to make himself available as a resource to the Energy and Commerce Committee as we considered complex legislation. I am especially grateful for his engagement during the Deepwater Horizon investigation conducted by the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. More recently as our chief diplomat, Secretary Tillerson worked to support American interests abroad. I thank my fellow Texan for his service, and wish him every success in his future endeavors. “It was a privilege to serve alongside Director Mike Pompeo on the Energy and Commerce Committee during his time in the U.S. House of Representatives. I have great respect for his leadership, and look forward to working with him in this new role upon Senate confirmation.” ###
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Energy and Commerce Committee Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Gregg Harper (R-MS) sent letters yesterday to the Government of the District of Columbia and United Medical Center in Washington, D.C., following a series of questions raised by a December 2017 story in The Washington Post. The story detailed that while the District of Columbia has made strides in reducing maternal mortality, the rates continue to be higher than the national average. Chairmen Burgess and Harper wrote, “While some progress in reducing infant mortality and improving health care outcomes for mothers and their infants has been made, there is a clear need to improve maternal and infant health in the District of Columbia. It is critical that health care services provided in the Medicaid program are of the highest quality.” The chairmen continued, “Every Medicaid patient deserves a Medicaid program that meets their critical health needs, providing the right care at the right time. Mothers and their infants should never experience serious adverse or even fatal events due to avoidable failures from stakeholders that compromise the Medicaid safety net.” #SubHealth Chairman Burgess and #SubOversight Chairman Harper posed 11 questions for both entities, requesting responses within 30 days. Click HERE to read a copy of the letter.
02.26.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, and Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 880, the MISSION ZERO Act. The MISSION ZERO Act would establish grant programs for eligible trauma systems and centers to incorporate full military trauma teams or individual military trauma providers into their hospitals. This mutually beneficial partnership would allow civilians the chance to learn more about military best practices and would give military trauma care providers the opportunity to utilize their cutting-edge expertise without leaving the military. “Unfortunately no community is immune from the threat of traumatic injury. The MISSION ZERO Act will connect American patients with battle-tested trauma care and the expertise of military trauma care providers,” said Rep. Burgess. “These grants will keep our military trauma preparedness high while increasing the capacity and expertise of these domestic trauma centers across the United States. Simply put, the MISSION ZERO Act is a win for both civilian patients and military doctors.” “As we grapple with how to best support our men and women in uniform and respond to tragedies at home, we must make certain that our trauma systems and centers are best prepared to save lives,” said Rep. Green. “This grant program will support the development of a national trauma care system that allows for the continuous and seamless exchange of knowledge across the military and civilian health care sectors, which would better provide optimal delivery of trauma care to save the lives of Americans injured within the United States or on the battlefield. You can read the bill here. ###
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after President Trump’s first State of the Union Address this evening. “Tonight, Congress and the American people heard a message about building a safe, strong, and proud America. In his first State of the Union Address, President Trump laid out his plans to improve the economy, bolster our national security, and combat difficult issues like the opioid crisis. “Last year, President Trump promised to make jobs and growth a pillar of his work in Washington. Today, I am encouraged by the progress the economy has made. Tonight we heard several success stories of Americans keeping more of their hard-earned money to use as they see fit. There is no doubt that tax reform, signed into law just a month ago, already is paying dividends for families in North Texas and around the country. “I appreciate the President’s commitment to the American people on the important topics he covered tonight. Although we continue to face difficult challenges, the state of our union is indeed strong.” ###
01.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement following the U.S. Senate’s vote to confirm Alex Azar as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). "An HHS veteran, Secretary Azar is uniquely equipped for this new role. We are confident he has the understanding of the issues facing our broken health care system, and the skills and experience necessary to implement commonsense, patient-centered solutions. We look forward to working closely with Secretary Azar in our shared efforts to combat the opioid crisis, advance innovation, lower costs for consumers, and tackle other critical issues facing the country's health system." ###
01.18.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after House passage of the Extension of Continuing Appropriations Act. “Tonight, the House of Representatives took the correct step in voting to fund the federal government. While this continuing resolution is by no means perfect, we must not let funding for our service men and women lapse. By voting for this legislation, we have ensured that we will not put our national security in jeopardy. In addition, basic government services for North Texans and all Americans will continue without interruption. “This resolution also includes a six-year extension of the state Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), a vital program that helps more than 400,000 Texas children receive the health coverage they need. As a result of tonight’s vote, millions of American families can rest assured that their children will not lose health care coverage. After many months of work, I am glad to see this critical funding bill get a step closer to the finish line for children in North Texas and in neighborhoods across the country. Now it is up to the Senate to act and pass this resolution to fund the government and ensure that children maintain their coverage." ###
12.29.2017	Lake Dallas, T.X. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after publishing his 2017 Year End Report detailing key accomplishments and services for the 26th District. “I commenced the 115th Congress with great hope for what we could accomplish for North Texas families in 2017. Reflecting on the last year, it is clear we have achieved several legislative victories and made significant strides in areas where work remains. From committee hearings to town halls, case work to media interviews, I am committed to serving the 26th District to the best of my ability. Since the start of my service in Congress, I have prioritized communicating with residents of the 26th District. This report is one way to hold myself accountable to my constituents, and I hope they will review it and let me know how I can best serve them and their families as we look ahead to 2018.” The complete 2017 Year End Report is available here. ###
12.21.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) approved Texas’ Section 1115 Medicaid waiver extension. “The extension of the state’s Section 1115 Medicaid waiver is great news for patients and doctors in Texas. As a key advocate of this collaboration between CMS and the State of Texas, I am glad to see an agreement reached that will ensure millions of Texans continue to receive the care they need. This waiver extension allows vital Medicaid dollars to reach hospitals that provide care to disadvantaged and underserved patients in Texas –an important priority for hospitals across the state, especially those in North Texas. Hospitals, such as Parkland Memorial in Dallas, depend on these crucial Medicaid payments to offer care, and I commend the State of Texas and CMS for working together and reaching this important agreement that is a win for Texas patients and healthcare providers.” ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives today passed a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the government, by a vote of 231-188. Included in the CR is a provision providing short-term funding for the state Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). This temporary patch is similar to one passed by the House earlier this month. Also included in the CR is a short-term funding stream for the Community Health Center Fund, the National Health Service Corps, Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education, and the Special Diabetes Program. Funding for CHIP and other public health priorities expired on September 30, 2017. The House of Representatives passed H.R. 3922, the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, extending funding for CHIP, Community Health Centers and other important public health programs, on November 3, 2017, by a bipartisan vote. H.R. 3922 is fully offset through responsible reforms like reducing federal subsidies for seniors earning more than $500,000 each year (or $40,000 each month) by limiting government contributions for their Part B and D premiums, and disenrolling lottery jackpot winners from Medicaid to prioritize the most vulnerable. Under current law, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is restricted by a statutory formula in how it allocates “redistribution funds” to cover state shortfalls that are occurring in the absence of funded FY2018 CHIP allotments. This policy extends the CR provision that gave CMS more flexibility over the use of redistribution funds through the period ending March 31, 2017, and modifies the rule so CMS will make monthly determinations of states’ projected shortfalls. This policy also requires the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to distribute funds in the order in which states experience shortfalls. Overall, it is estimated that these funds would be available through the length of the short-term CR. “Once again, the House has acted to make available short-term relief for states in desperate need of CHIP funds while our fully funded House-passed package languishes in the Senate. It is incredibly disappointing that our colleagues couldn’t come together before the end of the year to advance a long-term extension of CHIP and these critical public health priorities,” said Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX). “As we continue our bipartisan, bicameral negotiations, we must act quickly to fund this vital program. Children and their families can’t keep putting their lives on hold.” ###
12.20.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “Today the United States House of Representatives delivered on its promise to the American people by passing comprehensive tax reform for the first time since 1986. These sweeping improvements will simplify the tax code and empower taxpayers to keep more of their hard-earned money. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will deliver for American families by reducing the rates of the individual tax brackets and nearly doubling the standard deduction while keeping in place the most important deductions; for example, education tuition waivers will remain tax-exempt. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also eliminates Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty. Since its inception, I have been a fervent opponent of this egregious overreach that fundamentally alters the relationship between the government and the governed. With our vote today, Congress has begun to restore liberty to the American people. “While this tax reform package is not perfect, it is a positive step in the right direction. I commend my fellow Members for their hard work to achieve long-overdue results for North Texans and the American people.” ###
12.18.2017	This fall, Congress has made strides toward a historic tax reform package. For the first time since 1986, Congress is considering sweeping changes to the tax code that will offer hardworking American families relief from burdensome taxes. If you would like to learn more about how these proposed changes will affect North Texas families, please see the resources below. Conference Report (As of December 12, 2017) The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Conference Report was released last Friday. To view a side-by-side comparison of current law vs. proposed changes in H.R. 1, please click here. (The information included in the document was sourced from the Tax Foundation, the Tax Policy Center, the Internal Revenue Service, and the House Ways and Means Committee.) If you would like to read the full Conference Report, it is available here. Comparing the House and Senate Versions (As of December 6, 2017) A side-by-side comparison of the House and Senate versions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is available here. The House Bill The Washington Post published a graphic, copied below, comparing the current tax brackets with the proposed reforms in the House bill. The graphic illustrates how the GOP tax plan will reduce the number of tax brackets from the current seven to four. Read the full article and analysis here. Image credit: Washington Post Also, the Joint Committee on Taxation, a nonpartisan committee, sent a letter to House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady commenting on the changes made by H.R. 1 , the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, to the current tax code. You can read the letter in full here. The key takeaway is its conclusion that, "the combined effect of the tax rate and income threshold amendments made by the bill, along with the standard deduction, would not, in and of themselves, result in an increase in the amount of tax imposed on virtually any filer as a result of these changes." For more information on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, please visit Congress.gov.
12.01.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on Kate Steinle’s murder case. “I am saddened and angered by the verdict reached in the murder trial of Kate Steinle, a young woman who was brutally killed in 2015 by an illegal immigrant and convicted felon. From a father’s perspective, I cannot imagine the loss her family has faced. Moving forward, we must act to protect Americans from such dangerous criminals residing in our country unlawfully. “The Department of Justice should use every resource at its disposal to enforce laws designed to keep dangerous illegal immigrants from harming American citizens. Furthermore, I urge the Senate to swiftly consider Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004), a bill that would increase penalties for illegal immigrants who return to the United States illicitly, which passed the House on June 29, 2017.” ###
11.30.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after today’s Subcommittee on Health hearing on 21st Century Cures Act implementation. “One year ago, the House passed the 21st Century Cures Act, fulfilling our promise to help deliver cures to millions of patients. Today, nearly a full year after the Cures Act was signed into law, the Health Subcommittee heard from Dr. Francis Collins, the Director of the National Institutes of Health, and Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, who are at the helm of Cures implementation. “It is notable that, within the span of less than a year, the Cures Act already has led to the creation of 110 new research projects focused on the brain, 142 Cancer Moonshot awards, and enhanced drug development. Certainly, more progress is needed to alleviate the agony of an incurable disease; however, we already know that Cures has accelerated the cycle of discovery, development, and delivery of new treatments and has ensured that our nation remains the global leader in biomedical innovation. “The Cures Act is making government an ally, rather than an obstacle, in the cycle of medical innovation. We expect to conduct more check-ins on this law as it is implemented, and today’s hearing was an encouraging first update on its role in delivering cures to American patients.” ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 1, The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “While this tax reform package is not perfect, it is a positive step in the right direction. By doubling the standard deduction, expanding the Child Tax Credit, and reducing the number of tax brackets, this bill will allow taxpayers to keep more of their hard-earned money and save for the future. “Thirty-one years is far too long to wait to provide relief to hardworking American families, and now is the time to bring the tax code into the 21st century. This plan moves toward reforms that will simplify the tax code – saving taxpayers not just money, but also valuable time - and create more jobs and bigger paychecks for North Texans and Americans across the country.” ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the inclusion of his Audit the Pentagon amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which the House passed today. “Fiscal responsibility is a critical component of our national security. The Audit the Pentagon amendment, which was included in the NDAA for Fiscal Year 2018, requires the Department of Defense to rank in order of audit readiness every entity that is required to provide financial statements for the overall effort of the Department of Defense-wide audit. I am pleased that this important provision was included for the third time in the annual defense authorization bill. “The Pentagon must be held to the same level of accountability as other federal agencies when it comes to spending taxpayer dollars. This important measure will bring the Pentagon into compliance with current law, and ensure that defense resources are being used appropriately. Quite simply, auditing the Pentagon will reinforce our national security and improve our care for the American men and women in uniform.” ###
11.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today released the following statement after President Trump nominated Alex Azar as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). "We commend President Trump for nominating Alex Azar for Secretary of Health and Human Services. He is a veteran of HHS, bringing with him a wealth of institutional knowledge that will be instrumental in delivering patient-centered health care and combating the opioid crisis. We look forward to working with Mr. Azar on these critical issues and many others in the future," said Walden and Burgess. ###
11.11.2017	Highland Village, TX – Yesterday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after he presented five former U.S. Armed Forces members with the 2017 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC, established in 2005, honors distinguished veterans who have continued their dedication to the nation by serving their local communities after selflessly serving their country in military service. “While these selfless patriots may have retired their service uniforms, they are not finished serving our nation and North Texas,” said Dr. Burgess. “I want to extend my deepest appreciation to all of the nominees for their service to our country. “Our nation is truly blessed to have had such fine men and women answer the call to duty. As our armed forces bear the burden of protecting our liberty and freedom, our veterans deserve all of the respect and care that our country has to offer.” This year’s commendations were presented at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon hosted by the City of Highland Village and the Highland Village Business Association. Nominations were received from the community, veterans’ organizations and civic organizations. The five recipients of the 2017 Congressional Commendation are: Paul Farrar (US Army), Denton Donald Graves (US Marine Corps), Fort Worth Paul Perez Jr. (US Air Force), Flower Mound Donald Phillips (US Navy), Denton Johnnie Yellock II (US Air Force), Lantana During the ceremony, Dr. Burgess presented each recipient with a commendation and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol. In addition, local fallen heroes of the Afghanistan and Iraq conflicts and their families were also recognized for the ultimate sacrifice they made to defend our nation and protect our freedom. Pictured: 2017 Congressional Veteran Commendation Recipients with U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (left to right:) Paul Perez, Jr., Donald Graves, Congressman Michael Burgess, Paul Farrar, Johnnie Yellock II, Donald Phillip ###
11.08.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on today’s Subcommittee on Health hearing on “MACRA and Alternative Payment Models: Developing Options for Value-based Care.” “Today’s hearing was a key opportunity to assess the implementation of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA), particularly focusing on one of the two reimbursement avenues under the law – Alternative Payment Models (APMs). MACRA, which was passed two and a half years ago, was designed to put physicians – and patients – back at the center of medicine. It is critically important that MACRA succeeds, and I am glad the Energy and Commerce Committee remains dedicated to ensuring we get payment reform right. “During today’s hearing, I was encouraged by the witnesses’ testimonies on the positive impact that MACRA has already had in their communities and the promise of delivering better care and driving greater savings for more providers. A recurring theme we also heard this morning was that physicians are best suited to provide the determinants of quality. It is clear that patients are counting on us – the doctors – and not federal agencies, to get this right. “This hearing is just another step in the overall implementation and oversight process, and moving forward the subcommittee will continue to seek feedback on MACRA’s effectiveness. The days of the Sustainable Growth Rate are long gone, but I look forward to remaining engaged and working hard to ensure doctors have the freedom to provide their patients with the best medical care.” ###
11.02.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 849, the Protecting Seniors Access to Medicare Act. “Repealing the threat of this powerful, unelected board has been a bipartisan effort for years,” said Congressman Burgess. “Today, the House acted yet again to repeal this board and its unconstitutional relinquishment of Congressional authority. I urge the Senate to follow suit so we can return oversight of the future of the Medicare program where it belongs. We must prevent potential cuts from being implemented by this unelected board once and for all.” ###
11.01.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement in support of the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act. “The CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act includes key provisions for public health programs, especially funding for the state Children’s Health Insurance Program. Congress must act to ensure that children and their families who rely on this vital program can continue to receive the access they need. In a fiscally-responsible way, this legislation also delays harmful Obamacare-mandated cuts to hospitals that provide care to underserved patients. I am eager to see this important legislation reach the House Floor later this week.” ###
10.26.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Resolution. “Today the House passed a budget setting federal funding levels for Fiscal Year 2018. The budget includes key priorities to build a better America, including promoting economic growth, ensuring a strong national defense, and improving government accountability. This critical vote also paves the way for an upcoming overhaul of the federal tax code. Congress must ensure fiscal responsibility by reducing federal spending and implementing a simpler, better tax code. Now is the time to create meaningful change and put American economic prosperity first.” ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement after President Trump formally declared the opioid epidemic a public health emergency. “The opioid crisis has reached epidemic proportions, impacting every community across the country in a variety of ways. Today’s public health emergency declaration will unleash more tools and resources in our shared fight to combat the crisis that continues to destroy families and communities regardless of age, gender, race, or geography. We stand ready to work with the administration to deliver relief for the tens-of-thousands of Americans suffering from this epidemic on a daily basis.” ###
10.25.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the Energy and Commerce Committee held a hearing on the federal response to the opioid crisis. “The opioid epidemic is a heartbreaking problem gripping our nation. No community is immune from the effects of this crisis. Today, the Energy and Commerce Committee heard from key agency officials on the federal government’s response to the opioid epidemic. I am appreciative to the witnesses, Mr. Doherty, Dr. Gottlieb, Dr. McCance-Katz, Dr. Schuchat, and Dr. Volkow, for testifying on their agencies’ progress on stemming opioid abuse and addiction. “As Congress continues to consider ways to curtail the opioid crisis, we must work alongside physicians, other health care providers, and community leaders to find lasting solutions. Too many American families across the country, including at home in North Texas, have been devastated by this epidemic. This issue, while not new to the Committee, must end now. Today’s hearing is a good step in our fight against the opioid crisis, and we will continue our momentum in combating this epidemic.” ###
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – After a late night meeting with leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives, and consulting with Governor Abbott, members of the Texas delegation have identified nearly $15 billion of emergency funding for Texas to be included in the emergency disaster funding bill expected to be voted on later today in the House. In a telephone call with members of the Texas Delegation, Governor Abbott expressed his commitment to continuing to work with the Texas Congressional Delegation and Congressional Leadership to ensure that Texas has the resources needed to recover and rebuild. The measure includes $11 billion to pay anticipated claims for flood insurance for Texans victims of Hurricane Harvey, and an estimated $4 billion for the FEMA Disaster Relief Fund for Texas. The new FEMA funding for Texas will provide direct housing assistance, home repairs, debris removal and public assistance grants to eligible communities to begin repairs of roads, utility work, schools and public buildings. The flood insurance program is expected to run out of money within weeks – meaning Texas claims would not be paid – and FEMA funding will be exhausted soon due to the faster than expected drawdown to address Hurricane Maria claims. In addition to the $15 billion, Texas cities will also have access to a $4.9 billion pool for grants for Community Disaster Loans. These loans help communities with revenue losses due to disasters, so the communities can pay for police and fire protection and other critical local needs during their recovery. “Our top priority is to make money doesn’t run out in the next few weeks for Texas homeowners eager to rebuild their homes, as well as communities counting on FEMA funding for temporary housing, debris removal and infrastructure repairs for roads and schools”, said Representatives John Culberson of Houston, John Carter of Round Rock, and Kay Granger of Fort Worth, chairmen of key Appropriations Committee panels in Congress. “These emergency needs require action right now or a lot of Texans will be hurt. We are keeping our eyes focused on the long term recovery needs for Texas, which could exceed $100 billion and we will continue to work closely with Governor Abbott and our community leaders to secure that funding in the weeks ahead.” # # #
10.11.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after his visit to Puerto Rico on Monday, during which he toured hospitals and met with key health officials to assess the status of Puerto Rico’s medical infrastructure following recent hurricanes. “I am deeply concerned about the medical system in Puerto Rico as it recovers from the destruction caused by Hurricane Maria. On Monday, I heard from physicians, nurses, and hospital administrators about their concerns for Puerto Rico’s medical infrastructure. As the Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, I want to ensure the subcommittee will do its job to help our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico.” ###
10.05.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the Energy and Commerce Committee advanced nine important health care bills last night, including the HEALTHY KIDS Act that will extend funding for the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). “Last night, the Energy and Commerce Committee voted to advance important pieces of health care legislation that will extend vital, bipartisan safety net programs for the nation’s most vulnerable populations. These programs, including SCHIP, Community Health Center Funding, the National Health Service Corps, and the Special Diabetes Program are important programs that have proven incredibly effective at connecting individuals in medically underserved areas to care, and I am appreciative of the work that we all have put into the Helping Ensure Access for Little Ones, Toddlers, and Hopeful Youth by Keeping Insurance Delivery Stable Act (HEALTHY KIDS) and the Community Health and Medical Professionals Improve Our Nation Act (CHAMPION), which allow for us to continue these programs. “Additionally, I am pleased to see the advancement of the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act. As a physician, I understand the vital role of communication between medical professionals and patients and their caregivers. This commonsense legislation would make coverage of speech generating devices under ‘routinely purchased durable medical equipment’ permanent under the Medicare program, helping aid ease of communication for people with degenerative diseases.” Additional information about the markup is available from the Energy and Commerce Committee here. ###
09.29.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement thanking Secretary Tom Price for his service to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). “Secretary Price has been a steadfast public servant during his years in the House and most recently as the leader at HHS. As a fellow physician, I admire his dedication to his patients, the people of Georgia, and all Americans. It has been a pleasure to serve with Dr. Price in Congress, and I wish my friend all the best in his future endeavors.” ###
09.13.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the acceptance of his NASPER Funding Amendment to H.R. 3354. “Last night I offered an amendment to provide funding to the National All Schedules Prescription Electronic Reporting (NASPER) program. NASPER supports the utilization of prescription drug monitoring programs, which help coordinate prescribing practices between providers and pharmacists, so that prescription opioids can remain solely in the hands of the intended patient. Up until this point, NASPER has not been funded by Appropriators, and as a result, our country has been unable to utilize this life-saving tool. Congress must prioritize programs like NASPER that are preventive and can ensure that errant prescribers and bad actors do not fall through the cracks. If we want to end this epidemic, we must finally commit resources to programs that will promote prevention and encourage safer prescribing of prescription drugs.” ###
09.12.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), chairman of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, and Congressman Pat Tiberi (R-OH), chairman of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, introduced legislation that would repeal Obamacare’s individual health insurance mandate. “Obamacare’s individual mandate fundamentally alters the relationship between the government and the governed, severely limiting individual freedom,” said Congressman Burgess. “Since its conception, the individual mandate has been a direct attack on our personal liberty. This bill will provide the American people immediate relief from this overstep.” “We need to put patients and families, not the federal government, in charge of their own health care,” said Congressman Tiberi. “However, the individual mandate is forcing Americans to purchase plans they don’t want, don’t need, and can’t afford to use. This legislation would provide relief to Americans who are trapped in overpriced and unreliable Obamacare plans and eliminate the threat of an unfair fine from the IRS.” Click here to read H.R. 3725. ###
09.06.2017	Washington, D.C. — Representatives Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) and Sam Johnson (TX- 3) released the following statement on concerns about constituent service at the Frisco Post Office. “One of the most basic constitutionally-mandated responsibilities of the federal government is to deliver the mail, in rain or shine. The United States Postal Service has a rich legacy of customer service, and any exception is simply unacceptable. We have heard concerns from a number of Frisco residents about incidents at the Frisco Post Office that failed to meet expectations. Our constituents rightfully expect prompt and satisfactory mail delivery. To that end, we will continue to work with the USPS and our federal partners to ensure this problem is resolved.” ###
09.06.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 502, Making Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief, which will provide supplemental funding for victims of Hurricane Harvey. “I am saddened by the loss of life and damage sustained as a result of Hurricane Harvey, and I am concerned for the wellbeing of all our neighbors who have been affected by the storm. This major hurricane and subsequent flooding caused significant damage to southeast Texas and parts of Louisiana. While some of the losses will be covered by insurance, this initial supplemental emergency funding will pay for rescue efforts and the first steps of the recovery process. While we must help our neighbors in need, we also must remain good stewards of Americans’ hard-earned tax dollars. Congress must ensure these appropriations are used only for what they are intended – emergency disaster relief.” ###
09.06.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the SELF DRIVE Act. “Throughout my life, I have seen the life-saving effects of advancements in vehicle technology, from the seat belt, to the air bag, to anti-lock brakes. Self-driving vehicles are the next step in this trajectory. The SELF DRIVE Act not only will help save lives, but also will create jobs and ensure that we remain a global leader in innovation. This bill allows developers room to grow while making sure the technology is safe for consumers. “The Energy and Commerce Committee dedicated a good deal of time to self-driving vehicles while I was chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade in the 114th Congress. Today it was good to see the SELF DRIVE Act pass in the House of Representatives.” ###
09.05.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement after Attorney General Sessions announced the end of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) policy. “The Trump Administration’s decision to end DACA is a positive step in reforming our immigration system. From the start, DACA was irresponsible policy that incentivized illegal border crossings. It is the role of the Congress, not the executive branch, to consider and pass legislation. President Obama clearly overstepped his role when he enacted DACA as an executive order. There are legal pathways to immigration that create positive results for immigrants, the American people, and the economy. DACA was never an appropriate or legal answer for thousands of illegal immigrants. By rescinding DACA, President Trump has acknowledged Congress’ constitutional authority to consider lasting solutions to secure our borders.” # # #
08.18.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement after President Trump signed the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 into law. “The FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 will play a key part in supporting the FDA and ensuring that American patients see the medicine and cures they have been promised. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, I am proud to see this common sense, bipartisan legislation become law. I would like to thank my fellow Health Subcommittee members for their unwavering work on this legislation, overcoming distractions and setbacks to ensure that we could deliver on our promise to the American people. I am also grateful to the Senate and President Trump for their commitment to this cause.” ###
08.03.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, along with Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement following the Senate's passage of the FDA Reauthorization Act (FDARA) of 2017: “Working together, House and Senate Republicans and Democrats brought forth a bill to reauthorize these important programs, putting patients first and their hope for new treatments within reach,” said Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX). “This bill is a win for patients and the millions of Americans working to develop our next generation of cures and therapies. We applaud the Senate’s swift action in passing this vital bill, and urge President Trump to sign it into law.” ###
08.02.2017	The Colony, TX – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) announced today that he will host a town hall meeting on Saturday, August 5 beginning at 9am at the Lewisville ISD/The Colony High School Auditorium in The Colony. During this town hall, Congressman Burgess will discuss the important issues facing Americans and the work he is doing in Congress to strengthen our national security, stabilize our economy and make health care affordable for all Americans. Residents of the 26th district of Texas will also have the opportunity to ask Congressman Burgess questions. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting with Congressman Michael Burgess WHEN: Saturday, August 5 at 9:00am to 10:30am WHERE: Lewisville ISD/The Colony High School Auditorium, 4301 Blair Oaks Drive, The Colony, TX 75056 The event is free and open to all TX-26 residents. ONLY Press that wishes to attend MUST RSVP to RepBurgessPress@mail.house.gov. # # #
08.01.2017	Aubrey, TX – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) announced today that he will host a town hall meeting on Thursday, August 3 beginning at 7pm at Denton ISD/Braswell High School Gymnasium in Aubrey. During this town hall, Congressman Burgess will discuss the important issues facing Americans and the work he is doing in Congress to strengthen our national security, stabilize our economy and make health care affordable for all Americans. Residents of the 26th district of Texas will also have the opportunity to ask Congressman Burgess questions. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting with Congressman Michael Burgess WHEN: Thursday, August 3 at 7:00pm to 8:30pm WHERE: Denton ISD/Braswell High School Gymnasium, 26750 E. University Drive, Aubrey, TX 76227 The event is free and open to all TX-26 residents. ONLY Press that wishes to attend MUST RSVP to RepBurgessPress@mail.house.gov. # # #
07.27.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the Energy and Commerce Committee passed H.R. 3388, the SELF DRIVE Act. “The Energy and Commerce Committee’s passage of the SELF DRIVE Act to the House Floor is a big win for American consumers. When I was Chairman of the Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee we dedicated a significant amount of time to self-driving cars and their ability to save lives. This legislation, which passed unanimously out of Committee, is a common sense step forward in our efforts to advance this innovative technology. “Throughout my life, I have seen the life-saving effects of advancements in vehicle technology, from the seat belt, to the air bag, to automatic emergency braking. Self-driving vehicles are the next step in this trajectory. Moving forward, we must remain vigilant in ensuring government does not get in the way of the very innovation that can keep us safe.” # # #
07.25.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the Senate’s motion to proceed to debate on health care reform. “The Senate has taken a positive step forward in our efforts to dismantle Obamacare, a law that has been disastrous for American patients and providers. While today’s vote is not by any means the end of this process, it does open the door for further debate. I am grateful that Senator McCain was able to join his colleagues for the vote, and I truly appreciate his leadership in the Senate. “For seven years Republicans have been committed to ending the harmful effects of Obamacare, and now is the time to fulfill that promise to the American people. As we move forward, I will continue to work toward a better health care system that benefits American patients and those who work in the health care industry, and I urge my fellow Members and Senators to do the same.” # # #
07.20.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, yesterday welcomed Chaplain Marshall Dunbar, of Crossroads, Texas, as the Guest Chaplain of the House of Representatives. “Chaplain Dunbar has an extensive record of service to our country and the North Texas community. I am grateful for all the ways he continues to serve people through his work at Christian Community Action in Lewisville,” said Congressman Burgess. “It was a true honor and privilege to have him lead us in prayer on the House Floor.” Chaplain Dunbar currently serves as the Vice President of Spiritual Life and Interim Vice President of Programs for Christian Community Action. He previously served our country and North Texas through roles in active military service, law enforcement, and the Department of Homeland Security. He holds a B.S. in Ministry and Leadership from Dallas Christian College and a M.Div. in Chaplaincy from Liberty Baptist Theological Seminary, and currently is working toward his Doctor of Ministry degree in Christian Leadership and Spiritual Formation at Dallas Theological Seminary. A video of Chaplain Dunbar opening the House in prayer is available here. # # #
07.18.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Congressman Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Congressman Mike Thompson (D-CA), released the following statement after the reintroduction of H.R. 3263. The bill extends the Independence at Home Medical Practice Demonstration Program (IAH) from five to seven years. IAH has proven successful in cutting costs while providing valuable increases in benefits to high-need beneficiaries. “This is a commonsense program that will help our most vulnerable senior beneficiaries and taxpayers,” said Congressman Burgess said. “Under IAH, high-need patients will continue receiving individual care in the comfort of their homes while providers at hospitals, emergency rooms, and nursing homes are able to spend more free time with their patients. IAH is improving the quality of care and its provider groups are generating significant savings.” “IAH has a proven track record of keeping people in their homes and helping them get the care they need, all while saving taxpayers money,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “I’m pleased to be working with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to extend this critical program for two more years.” “The IAH demonstration focuses on reducing costs where they are the highest and improving care for those with the greatest need, all while protecting the viability of Medicare,” said Congressman Roskam. “The services provided through this demonstration save taxpayer dollars and ensure Americans have convenient access to the care they need.” “The IAH demonstration improves access, quality of care, and quality of life for our most ill Medicare patients while saving taxpayer dollars,” said Congressman Thompson. “It’s an important program that works and this bipartisan bill will make sure seniors are able to keep taking advantage of it.” Created in 2010, IAH provides home-based primary care to high-need Medicare beneficiaries with multiple chronic conditions, helping them to avoid unnecessary hospitalizations, emergency room visits, and nursing home admission. The types of beneficiaries enrolled in IAH currently account for the majority of Medicare costs, and are expected to account for increasing costs over the next 10 years. In the program’s first year alone, there were both increases in the continuity of care for Medicare beneficiaries and an estimated $25 million in savings. In 2015, the program was extended for an additional two years with bipartisan support. H.R. 3263 builds upon the prior successes of the program’s first five years both by continuing the demonstration program for beneficiaries and by allowing providers to enroll additional beneficiaries in the demonstration. # # #
07.12.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the House’s passage of H.R. 2430, the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 (FDARA), which reauthorizes FDA’s critical user fee programs. “The passage of FDARA ensures that American patients will have access to innovative cures and treatments, and that the United States will maintain its position as a global leader in medical innovation. This legislation is a big win for patients and the millions of Americans who work in the health care sector. Enactment of FDARA will ensure that groundbreaking treatments, drugs, and devices will reach patients sooner, undoubtedly saving lives and improving care.” ###
07.11.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, will hold the 2017 Energy Summit & Fair on Saturday, July 15, at the University of North Texas’ Discovery Park Campus. The Energy Summit will convene local leaders and industry experts who will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient and reduce their energy costs. The event also will feature a fair with booths providing energy-related information and resources, as well as displays featuring fuel efficient vehicles. “We must all do our part to become more energy efficient and strive for an energy-independent America,” Congressman Burgess said. “The Energy Summit & Fair is an opportunity to hear from experts discussing the future of energy in America, as well as practical ways to conserve energy and reduce costs in North Texas. This annual event ensures residents of the 26th District are kept up-to-date and informed on how to save the most.” 2017 Energy Summit & Fair Saturday, July 15, 2017 8:00am to 12:00pm University of North Texas • Discovery Park 3940 N. Elm Street • Denton, TX 76207 For more information please visit our website or contact Robin Vaughan, Deputy District Director at 940-497-5031 or robin.vaughan@mail.houe.gov. ###
06.30.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Congressman Patrick Tiberi (R-OH), and Congressman Mike Thompson (D-CA) issued the following statement after the introduction of H.R. 3120. This legislation will amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to reduce the volume of future electronic health record-related significant hardship requests. “Electronic health records place an enormous burden on physicians, and have failed to live up to their promise to improve health care delivery for patients. Unfortunately, current law places an arbitrary requirement on the Secretary of Health and Human Services to impose an increasingly stringent burden on physicians’ use of these records systems,” said Congressman Burgess. “This bipartisan legislation provides a common-sense solution for a burden that negatively impacts both patients and providers, resulting in better care.” “This legislation represents a commonsense step to ease burdens on medical providers and improve patient care,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “It will allow HHS to continue to improve the use of electronic medical records, which can save time, improve accuracy and lead to better patient outcomes, without placing an undue burden on those who deliver care.” “Our bipartisan bill will ease burdens on providers and streamline reporting processes so that they can focus on what they do best—care for their patients. This is a needed solution that is an important part in our efforts to transition to a better patient-centered health care system,” said Congressman Tiberi. “I’m glad to collaborate with my colleagues on this commonsense, bipartisan fix. Electronic health records have great potential to improve care coordination and patient outcomes. This measure will help to ensure that health providers aren’t unduly burdened by reporting measures that don’t improve care quality,” said Congressman Thompson. You can read the bill here. ###
06.28.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement after the Subcommittee on Health held a bipartisan briefing on rising rates of maternal mortality across the United States. “Yesterday the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health held a bipartisan member briefing to learn more about the rising rates of maternal mortality in America. The death of a new or expecting mother is a tragic event that devastates everyone involved. Having spent nearly three decades as an OB-GYN, I believe it should be a national goal to eliminate all preventable maternal mortality—even a single maternal death is too many. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health, I will continue to seek solutions for this serious problem that we simply cannot ignore. “I would like to thank Vicki McGuire, a nurse who almost lost her life in childbirth and who provided us with a patient perspective, Dr. William Callaghan, Chief of the Maternal and Infant Health Branch at CDC, Dr. Haywood Brown, the current President of ACOG, Dr. Gary Hankins, Professor and Chairman of the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology at the University of Texas, and Dr. Peter Bernstein, Program Director of Maternal Fetal Medicine at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, for participating in this productive conversation.” # # #
06.27.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement after the reintroduction of the Audit the Pentagon Act of 2017. “President Trump wants to rebuild the military. I do too. The U.S. Armed Forces are an arsenal of democracy that is key to our freedom. No one can justify wasting the dollars that should be spent on our men and women in uniform, and the Audit the Pentagon Act of 2017 will ensure that we are able to efficiently and effectively support our military at home and abroad.” # # #
06.26.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court announced its decision to temporarily reinstate President Trump’s executive order on refugees. “My top priority has always been to protect Americans at home and to do so by securing our borders. President Trump has taken steps well within his authority, and based off intelligence gathered in the Obama Administration, to keep our country safe. The Supreme Court has upheld the rule of law and recognized, for the time being, President Trump’s authority to protect Americans and strengthen our national security. I believe this is a positive step forward in ensuring our borders are protected against threats to North Texans and the American people.” # # #
06.22.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House and Energy Subcommittee on Health, today introduced bipartisan legislation H.R. 2953 with Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) that would direct the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to analyze scientific medical data to provide information on the savings of preventive health initiatives beyond the traditional 10-year scoring window. The bill, known as the Preventive Health Savings Act of 2017, aims to modernize the way CBO scores preventive health legislation, allowing for a longer “scoring” window in which to assess the long-term health savings that are possible from preventive health initiatives. “Minimizing the cost of a significant and complex problem such as chronic disease is not an easy or quick endeavor,”said Rep. Burgess.“Allowing the CBO to analyze scientific data, and having the ability to provide projects past the ten year scoring window will provide a more accurate projection for programs with children and other populations or diseases with longer development periods. This legislation is a responsible approach and will ensure that the government calculates the savings of preventative health.” “This year’s congressional efforts on American health care have highlighted the CBO’s non-partisan work and shown how important it can be to making solid legislative choices,”said Rep. DeGette.“But our laws prevent health care spending projections from taking long-term savings into account. It’s time we let the CBO make decisions based on science and with those long-term cost projections in mind.I look forward to continuing this bipartisan work that will save money and keep Americans healthy.” “To address a chronic disease escalation that threatens to affect our society and economy for the next several decades, we need long-term thinking that transcends the way Congress traditionally thinks about policy and budgets. Innovations that can prevent illness and improve population health for generations shouldn’t be stymied by an arbitrary 10-year budget window. The Preventive Health Savings Act will grant lawmakers the flexibility to combat cancer, heart disease, diabetes and other devastating conditions,”said Mary R. Grealy, President of the Healthcare Leadership Council. This legislation is supported by: Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics; ACT | The App Association; Aetna; Alliance for Aging Research; Allscripts; Alzheimer’s Association; Alzheimer’s Impact Movement (AIM); America’s Essential Hospitals; America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP); American Art Therapy Association; American; Association for Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation (AACVPR); American Association for Respiratory Care (AARC); American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE); American Association of Diabetes Educators; American Association on Health and Disability; American Clinical Laboratory Association (ACLA); American College of Gastroenterology; American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine; American College of Preventive Medicine; American College of Radiology; American Council on Exercise; American Diabetes Association; American Foundation for Suicide Prevention; American Medical Association; American Optometric Association; American Osteopathic Association; American Pharmacists Association; American Podiatric Medical Association (APMA); American Psychological Association; American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery; AmerisourceBergen Corporation; AMGA; Amgen; Ascension Health; Association for Ambulatory Behavioral Healthcare; Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies; Baxter; Biocom; BioReference Laboratories; BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee; Boehringer Ingelheim; California Life Sciences Association; Cancer Support Community; Cardinal Health; Clinical Social Work Association; Connected Health Initiative; Council for Affordable Health Coverage; Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance; Diabetes Hands Foundation; Dialysis Patient Citizens; Eating Disorders Coalition; Eisai; Eli Lilly and Company; Endocrine Society; Facing Addiction; Hazelden Betty Ford Institute for Recovery Advocacy; Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS); Healthcare Leadership Council; HealthyWomen; IHRSA: International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association; Indiana University Health; Johnson & Johnson; Lakeshore Foundation; Leidos; Lewin and Associates LLC; Marshfield Clinic; Maxim Healthcare Services; MemorialCare Health System; Mental Health America; Merck; National Alliance of State Pharmacy Associations; National Assn for Rural Mental Health; National Association of County Behavioral Health and Developmental Disability Directors; National Association for the Self-Employed; National Association of ACOs; National Association of Chain Drug Stores (NACDS); National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems; National Association of Social Workers; National Association of Spine Specialists; National Coalition on Health Care; National Consumers League; National Council on Aging; National Kidney Foundation; National Restaurant Association; National Retail Federation; Nestle Health Science; Novartis; Novo Nordisk; NTCA–The Rural Broadband Association; Obesity Action Coalition; Obesity Medicine Association; Obesity Society; Omada Health; Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease; Patients Rising; Pediatric Endocrine Society; Pfizer; PhRMA; Premier Healthcare Alliance; Prescriptions for a Healthy America; Prevent Cancer Foundation; Redstone Center; Rite Aid; Sanofi US; SCAN Health Plan; Society for Women’s Health Research; Sports & Fitness Industry Association; Stroll Health; Takeda Pharmaceuticals; Texas Health Resources; Third Way; UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust; Underwriters Laboratories INC.; U.S. Chamber of Commerce; Visiting Nurse Associations of America (VNAA); Vizient; Weight Watchers; YMCA of the USA. To download the PDF of the legislation click here. ###
06.13.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the House passed the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. “This bill is a long-needed step toward ensuring Secretary Shulkin has the ability to hold his employees accountable to providing quality care in a timely and efficient manner. Our veterans deserve the best care that we can offer to them, and should never suffer because of employees’ negligence or poor performance. Quite simply, the VA should not have any employee who cannot do his or her job on its payroll. This reform will make certain that those who care for our veterans can be held accountable for the quality of care they provide. Moving forward, I will continue to support common sense solutions to reform the VA and enhance veterans’ care." # # #
06.08.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement following the Department of Veteran Affair’s announcement that it will adopt the same electronic health records system as the Pentagon. “I fully support Secretary Shulkin’s decision to enhance patient care in the Department of Veteran Affairs with this much-needed update. We cannot improve health care outcomes for our veterans unless doctors have access to the entirety of a patient’s medical history. Our veterans deserve the best care we can offer, and this is an important step in ensuring that they have an efficient and positive experience with the VA. I will continue to advocate for the interoperability of our electronic health records, so that all Americans can easily access their medical records." # # #
06.05.2017	Denton, TX - Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, last week announced the Class of 2021 Service Academy Appointees from the 26th Congressional District. This summer these young men and women will be entering the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY, and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. "I was pleased to nominate outstanding young men and women who will be the future leaders of our Armed Forces and America,” said Dr. Burgess. “I am even more delighted and grateful that these future leaders have accepted this challenge to serve their country." Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are evaluated rigorously on a variety of criteria including academic performance, leadership qualifications, and physical preparedness. Appointments to an academy must be preceded by a nomination from a Member of Congress, Academy Superintendent, the Vice President or a military connected nomination. Last week, Dr. Burgess honored these appointees as a reception hosted by the City of Denton and the Denton Enterprise Airport. Special guests at the reception included 2017 U.S. Air Force Academy graduates, U.S. Air Force 2nd Lt Stevan Bacchus-Grant of Fort Worth and U.S. Air Force 2nd Lt Reagan Fentress of Denton, and members of the Vietnam Veterans of America – Chapter 920. The students residing in the 26th Congressional District entering the service academies are as follows: US Military Academy Emersen Bribiesca (Keller) Ben Ferguson (Argyle) Aaron Horikami (Flower Mound) Ben McCleery Ben (Keller) Elias Mitchell (Trophy Club) US Naval Academy Preston Rhodes (Keller) Sam Rice (Flower Mound) Justin Rosas (Fort Worth) Justin Self (Keller) Jarvian Wigfall (Denton) US Air Force Academy David Bearden (Argyle) Joshua Block (Argyle) Joseph Carlson (Frisco) Leo Cheshire (Frisco) Joseph Morin (Roanoke) Alexander Nguyen (Keller) Jackson Trent (Flower Mound) Nathan Yu (Flower Mound) US Merchant Marine Academy Kellin Tompkins (Lakewood Village) Hunter Wyssbrod (Frisco)
05.24.2017	Lake Dallas, TX – Today, Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) announced the winner of the fifteenth annual 26th Congressional District art competition. The art competition was open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the district. Ms. Scout Streit, a junior art student of Kathy Toews at Marcus High School in Flower Mound, won the Grand Prize in the 2017 competition with her color photograph entitled “Allegiance.” “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic achievements of our local high school students and to share the results of those talents with our area and the rest of the country,” said Burgess. “Scout’s work makes the 26th District proud. She is a very talented young woman with a tremendous gift.” Congressman Burgess honored the finalists at a reception at the Patterson-Appleton Art Center in Denton hosted by the art competition’s co-sponsor, The Greater Denton Arts Council. The juried competition was judged by professional artist, Millie Giles. For the sixth year, entries were submitted digitally by art teachers on behalf of their students. A “Texas Choice” winner was selected by popular vote in the virtual gallery on Congressman Burgess’ website. Ms. Ashlyn Brightly was the winner of this category for her artwork entitled “Blooming Wood.” She is a senior at Flower Mound High School and her art instructor is Jason Hyde. In addition, the jurist reviewed the posted artwork and determined the contest finalists based upon artistic merit. She selected a “Best of School” Award for one student from each school based on her appraisal of their work. The Juror's Award was based on her appraisal of artwork that had a high level of artistic merit and execution ranking under that of the Best of School Award. These students were also finalists in the competition. These 25 finalists delivered their artwork to be physically and visually judged for the Grand Prize and First Place. All of the finalists were publicly recognized at the reception by Congressman Burgess with a “Certificate of Congressional Recognition.” As the Grand Prize winner, Scout will have her artwork displayed for an entire year in the U.S. Capitol and has the opportunity to attend the national ceremony in Washington, DC in June. The ceremony will honor the winning artists from congressional districts all over the country. In addition, Ms. Julia Adkins, a junior at Flower Mound High School and a student of Suzanne McLeod, won First Place for her photograph entitled “Children of Kenya.” Julia will have her artwork displayed in Congressman Burgess’ Lake Dallas district office for the next year. “Congratulations are in order for Scout, Ashlyn, and Julia for their creative achievements,” said Burgess. “I was pleased to bring this worthwhile art program to the high school students of the 26th District and look forward to next year’s competition.”
05.19.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement on the unanimous passage of three bills out of the Subcommittee yesterday, May 18, 2017. The markup included two public health bills: H.R. 1222, the Congenital Heart Futures Reauthorization Act of 2017 and H.R. 2410, the Sickle Cell Disease Research, Surveillance, Prevention, and Treatment Act of 2017. The markup also included H.R. 2430, the FDA Reauthorization Act (FDARA) of 2017, which reauthorizes several user fee programs at the Food and Drug Administration. “Each of these bills will improve care for Americans from all walks of life. The Subcommittee has worked hard to advance these efforts. In particular, the advancement of the FDA Reauthorization Act is just the latest step in nearly two years of work by the FDA, Congress, and the biopharmaceutical and medical device industries. This bipartisan bill will ensure that FDA has the resources necessary to get medical treatments and cures to patients and health care providers as quickly as possible. “As a physician who cared for patients with sickle cell disease at Parkland Hospital, I’ve seen firsthand the devastating effect this disease can have on people. The Sickle Cell Disease Research, Surveillance, Prevention, and Treatment Act provides an important step forward in ensuring that we have the resources to better understand this disease and to maintain access to services for those affected by sickle cell disease.” # # #
04.07.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) issued the following statement on the U.S. airstrikes in Syria. “President Trump made the correct decision to take decisive action against the Assad regime. The event that occurred in Syria earlier this week is astonishing in its cruelty. The next step in this process is as important as the first. And before further military action is taken, it is Congress’ obligation to authorize war powers through the structure and debate of an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF). This should occur sooner rather than later, even if it interferes with the scheduled Congressional recess. We owe it to our men and women in the military to provide clear and concise direction from the United States Congress.” ###
04.05.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) issued the following statement on the recent chemical weapons attack in Syria. “The chemical weapons attack that occurred Tuesday in northwestern Syria is a shocking atrocity. The attack was reportedly carried out using the potent nerve gas, sarin, killing at least 70 civilians, including children. "This barbaric behavior must end. The Syrian government has denied involvement, just as they did in a 2013 sarin gas attack that killed 1,300 people. Bashar al-Assad’s continued presence in Syria cannot be accepted as a political reality. A leader who allows the killing of innocent civilians is no leader at all. The removal of President al-Assad must be considered as part of any solution to this years-long civil war.” ###
04.04.2017	Fort Worth, TX – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) announced today that he will host a town hall meeting on Saturday, April 22 beginning at 9am at Harvest Church in Fort Worth. During this town hall, Congressman Burgess will discuss the important issues facing Americans and the work he is doing in Congress to strengthen our national security, stabilize our economy and make health care affordable for all Americans. Residents of the 26th district of Texas will also have the opportunity to ask Congressman Burgess questions. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting with Congressman Michael Burgess WHEN: Saturday, April 22 at 9:00am to 10:30am WHERE: Harvest Church, 7200 Denton Hwy, Fort Worth, Texas 76148 The event is free and open to TX-26 residents only. ONLY Press that wishes to attend MUST RSVP to RepBurgessPress@mail.house.gov. ###
03.29.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, was named by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society as its 2016 U.S. Representative of the Year.A long-term champion on behalf of people affected by MS, Congressman Burgess is the founding Chair of the Congressional Multiple Sclerosis Caucus. He has been a leader of the Advancing Research for Neurological Diseases Act (H.R. 292), and through his dedicated efforts in 2016 he ensured the bill was passed into law as part of the 21st Century Cures Act. “As the founder and co-chair of the Congressional MS Caucus, we have made great strides in my tenure to strengthen MS research and improve the lives of those living with this devastating disease. I am honored to be recognized as the MS Society’s 2016 Representative of the Year and remain committed to breaking down barriers to make MS therapies more affordable,” said Burgess. “Representative Burgess has changed the landscape of Capitol Hill’s understanding and commitment to people with MS,” said National MS Society President and CEO Cyndi Zagieboylo. “From his founding of the Congressional MS Caucus in 2007, to his impactful work on the 21st Century Cures Act, the congressman’s leadership is critical to helping us reach a world free of MS.” The National MS Society presented Congressman Burgess with the U.S. Representative of the Year award during its 26th annual Public Policy Conference, held March 20-22. The event convened nearly 300 MS activists from across the country in Washington, D.C. to educate elected officials about the needs of people affected by MS. ###
03.21.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement on Department of Energy Secretary Perry’s extension of the freeze on Obama administration energy efficiency rules to allow for further review. “Secretary Perry’s extension of the freeze on Obama administration energy efficiency rules signals a transfer of control from the government back to the consumer. Government standards have proven, time and again, to be unworkable. When the market drives the standard, there’s no limit to how quickly and aggressive manufacturers will respond when consumers demand more efficient products. I commend the Trump Administration for taking steps to dial back the federal overreach of the last administration." ###
03.16.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement on the Fiscal Year 2018 budget that President Trump submitted to Congress. “Last November, the American people voted to return jobs to the U.S., jumpstart our national economy, negotiate fairer trade deals and foster private sector innovation. Today, President Trump submitted his Fiscal Year 2018 budget that prioritizes economic prosperity without adding to our already crippling national debt. President Trump’s ‘skinny’ budget signals a return to a smaller government that finds itself less involved in regulating American lives. “The Obama Administration added $9 trillion to our national debt, more than any other President in history. Recovering from this will require significant action from the Trump Administration. It will require more than just cutting spending, but a reform of our broken budget system, a revitalization of our economy, and reform of our tax code. “I am confident that in partnership with Congress, the Trump Administration will improve government efficiency while ensuring ample funding levels to meet the needs of our military and American communities.” ###
03.16.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement on the passage of the American Health Care Act by the House Budget Committee. “I appreciate the hard work of the Budget Committee to advance this important legislation through regular order. Right now we have a historic opportunity to help improve the lives of families across our nation. The American Health Care Act provides immediate relief from the ACA by eliminating mandates and returning control back to the states. We are committed to ensuring a stable transition away from the ACA as we preserve and protect insurance for all Americans, including young people and those with pre-existing conditions. I look forward to reviewing this legislation once again in the Rules Committee next week." ###
03.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement after the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Seema Verma as Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator. “With Senate confirmation of Seema Verma as CMS Administrator, both CMS and HHS can truly work in harmony. There’s no shortage of work ahead, and the administration has built a well-equipped team to clean up the mess that Obamacare has made. Rebuilding our health care system with patient-centered reforms is a top priority for this Congress and we look forward to working together to deliver results for patients and families all across the country.”
03.09.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement on the advancement of legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act by the Energy & Commerce Committee. "After 27 hours of debate, the Energy & Commerce Committee passed legislation to repeal and replace the ACA, signaling the first phase of our plan to rebuild our health care system. “We are driving down costs and giving patients more choice in their health care. We are strengthening Medicaid by prioritizing the most vulnerable Americans. And we are reducing regulations imposed on states by bureaucrats in Washington. “I’ve devoted my professional life and my public service to health care—it is my highest priority to improve the state of health care in our nation. The time is now. Americans and Texans cannot wait any longer for relief from deductibles that cost more than their mortgage payments and leave them functionally uninsured. Although well-intentioned, Obamacare failed. Republicans have responded and are delivering on our promise of affordable care for all Americans.” ###
03.02.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement in response to the Senate confirmation of Secretary Perry to lead the Department of Energy. “Under the leadership of Governor Perry, Texas saw a period of great energy growth and increased availability in low-cost energy for companies and Texans. “After years of running one of the nation’s most prolific state economies, Governor Perry will bring overdue reform to the Department of Energy to make the federal agency work for the people and no longer its own interests. “I have great faith that Governor Perry is the best candidate to carry out President Trump’s vision to make America energy independent. Congratulations to our former Governor of the great state of Texas.” ###
02.28.2017	Flower Mound, TX – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) announced today that he will host his 98th town hall meeting on Saturday, March 4 beginning at 9am at Marcus High School. During this town hall, Congressman Burgess will discuss the important issues facing Americans and the work he is doing in Congress to strengthen our national security, stabilize our economy and make health care affordable for all. Residents of the 26th district of Texas will also have the opportunity to ask Congressman Burgess questions. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting with Congressman Michael Burgess WHEN: Saturday, March 4 at 9:00am to 10:30am WHERE: Marcus High School Activities Center, 5707 Morriss Road, Flower Mound, Texas The event is free and open to TX-26 residents only. Press that wishes to attend MUST RSVP to RepBurgessPress@mail.house.gov.
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement on President Trump’s first joint address to Congress. “Last November, the country voted for an optimistic, forward-looking vision for America. Tonight’s address from President Trump reflects this hopefulness and confirms that his promises to Americans will be kept. “Just today, there was disappointing news that in the final quarter of last year, the U.S. economy saw an underwhelming growth of less than two percent. Without economic growth our future becomes less certain. “This evening President Trump delivered a message that jobs and the economy will be a main pillar of his agenda this year. I believe this is a focus that will be met with great enthusiasm by the American people.” ###
02.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— A bipartisan group of Senate and House health committee leaders today sent colleagues a letter to highlight the importance of immunizations, saying: “Vaccines save lives.” “The introduction of vaccines was a turning point in our country’s public health history. Vaccines led to the elimination of certain diseases, including polio and measles, from the United States,” write Senate health committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-Wash.), and House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-N.J.), and Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael Burgess (R-Texas) and Ranking Member Gene Green (D-Texas). “According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), before introduction of the polio vaccine in the United States, polio caused more than 16,000 cases of paralysis and nearly 2,000 deaths each year, on average. Similarly, before the introduction of the measles vaccine in 1963, almost all children got measles by the age of 15, with up to 4 million Americans infected each year, according to the CDC. Measles is a highly contagious, airborne virus that can cause serious respiratory illness and life-threatening complications in children, such as pneumonia, ear infections, and even lifelong brain damage or deafness. In 2000, as a result of a vaccine, the CDC declared measles to be eliminated in the United States,” they wrote in the letter to each of their Senate and House colleagues. The letter concludes: “Vaccines are our first line of defense against infectious diseases, many of which have no treatment or can be life-threatening. As medical research continues to advance, and scientists discover new medical breakthroughs and cutting-edge ways to treat disease and save lives, it is critical to recognize the importance of protecting public health against vaccine-preventable diseases. The science is clear: FDA-licensed vaccines are proven to be safe and effective, and save the lives both of those who receive them and vulnerable individuals around them. As Members of Congress, we have a critical role to play in supporting the availability and use of vaccines to protect Americans from deadly diseases.” Read the full letter here. ###
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement after the Trump administration took action to deliver relief from Obamacare’s damage. “Patients and families understand best the need for urgent action to repeal Obamacare. Today’s action represents a clear signal from the Trump administration that patient voices have finally been heard, and that health care markets will get immediate relief. This rule helps move our country beyond the damage of Obamacare to patient-focused solutions to rebuild our health care system and provide fairness for everyone. Many of the actions in this rule directly align with proposed actions before our own committee. From requiring documentation for special enrollment periods and closing a loophole, these changes help protect taxpayers and stabilize markets. Working together, we will continue to get results for people across the country.” ###
02.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement after the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Rep. Tom Price, M.D. (R-GA) as the secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS). “With Senate confirmation of Dr. Tom Price as HHS Secretary, we can really get to work cleaning up the mess of the past and building a truly patient-centered health care system with better choices for Americans. Who better to work with than a physician who has championed what’s best for patients all of his life? As desperate patients and families look to move beyond the failures of Obamacare, we know that our friend and colleague has the hard-earned experience to lead reform efforts at HHS. We look forward to working with Dr. Price and his team at HHS as Congress follows through on its promise to repeal Obamacare and rebuild our health care system with patient-centered reforms.” ###
02.10.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, was appointed to the Congressional Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the U.S. Helsinki Commission, for the 115th Congress. This is the third Congress that Dr. Burgess has served as a Commissioner. Dr. Burgess will serve as one of nine Commissioners in the U.S. House of Representatives, selected by Speaker of the House Paul Ryan. In addition, nine Commissioners from the U.S. Senate are selected by the President of the Senate. The remaining three Commissioners are appointed by the President of the United States from the Departments of State, Defense and Commerce, usually at the Assistant Secretary level. The Helsinki Commission is an independent federal agency created in 1976, by order of Public Law 94-304, to monitor and encourage compliance with the Helsinki Final Act, or Helsinki Accords. The Commission convenes public hearings and briefings on Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)‐related topics, issues public reports and organizes official delegations to participating states. The Commission includes 57 participating states and 11 partners for cooperation. “As the world continues to change, it is now more important than ever to work with leaders of our ally nations to defend basic human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially those of persecuted individuals,” said Burgess. “As we welcome a new Administration, the Commission has the unique opportunity to ensure comprehensive security through the promotion of human rights, democracy, and economic, environmental, and military cooperation. I am honored to have the privilege of serving on the Helsinki Commission for another Congress.” “On the Helsinki Commission, Dr. Burgess has been a champion for human rights and the rule of law, and a strong supporter of Ukraine under attack by Russia,” said Helsinki Commission Co-Chair Rep. Chris Smith (NJ-04). “I am pleased to welcome him back to the Commission, and look forward to continuing to work with him to support U.S. foreign policy goals throughout the OSCE region.” For more information on the U.S. Helsinki Commission, click here. ###
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Representatives Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Gene Green (D-TX), Richard Hudson (R-NC) and Kathy Castor (D-FL) reintroduced the MISSION Zero Act (H.R. 880), to assist the Department of Defense (DoD) in assigning trauma surgeons to civilian trauma centers filling a gap in care recently examined by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine. Currently, trauma care in the United States is a patchwork of regional systems and incomplete data registries. Mortality and disability in traumatic injury can be greatly reduced through integrated, permanent joint civilian and military trauma system training platforms, in order to create and sustain an expert trauma workforce between periods of active combat. The MISSION Zero Act would also establish grant programs for eligible trauma systems and centers to incorporate full military trauma teams or individual military trauma providers into their hospitals. This mutually beneficial partnership would allow civilians the chance to learn more about military best practices and would give military trauma care providers the opportunity to utilize their cutting-edge expertise without leaving the military. “Our military has made incredible strides in delivering trauma care, saving countless lives that would have otherwise been lost,” said Rep. Burgess. “This expertise should be brought home to strengthen our civilian trauma centers and systems, so that efforts to save American lives are not dependent on where one is injured and what care is readily available. The MISSION Zero Act would establish a grant program to foster a partnership between our military and civilian trauma providers to benefit all Americans. I am proud to be part of this important legislation to strengthen our nation’s trauma care and save more lives on and off the battlefield.” “This grant program will support the development of a national trauma care system that allows for the continuous and seamless exchange of knowledge across the military and civilian health care sectors,” said Rep. Green. “This would better provide optimal delivery of trauma care to save the lives of Americans injured within the United States or on the battlefield. As we grapple with how to best support our men and women in uniform and respond to tragedies at home, we must make certain that our trauma systems and centers are best prepared to save lives.” “As a Representative of North Carolina – home of the epicenter of the universe, Fort Bragg – I understand how critical it is for our military trauma teams to maintain their unique medical skills off the battlefield,” said Rep. Hudson. “That’s why I’m proud to join my colleagues to introduce this bipartisan bill that will place military trauma teams into high acuity civilian trauma centers, empowering them to hone their expertise and enhancing our civilian trauma centers across the country.” “We need to build on the unique partnership between Tampa General Hospital and military medical professionals from MacDill Air Force Base. MacDill is home to the 6th Air Medical Group that serves the Sixth Air Mobility Wing, U.S. Central Command and U.S. Special Operations Command. In 2011, the MacDill Air Medical Group and Tampa General Hospital launched a ‘full team’ training initiative with nurses, surgeons and specialists. The initiative allows military and civilian medical teams to hone their skills in intense trauma environments and thereby keep them sharp to care for our warfighters. These partnerships are going to be vital for continued training for our community and our military. It should be replicated in other trauma centers across the United States,” said Rep. Castor. The MISSION ZERO Act is endorsed by the American Congress of Neurological Surgeons, American College of Emergency Physicians, American College of Surgeons, and the Trauma Care Association of America. “We are pleased to support the MISSION ZERO Act and applaud Reps. Burgess, Green, Hudson and Castor for reintroducing this important legislation,” said Jennifer Ward, President of Trauma Center Association of America. “Allowing trauma centers around the country to partner with military surgeons will not only help our servicemen and women maintain military readiness, but will also strengthen our trauma care systems and ensure that top-notch trauma care is available to every person who needs it.” ###
02.01.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, received the “Heroes of Main Street” award from the Texas Retailers Association and National Retail Federation (NRF). This award, created by the NRF in 2013, recognizes Members of Congress who have supported the retail industry, addressed important issues faced by retailers and worked to bolster our nation’s economy by supporting the retail sector. George Kelemen, President of Texas Retailers Association presents Dr. Burgess with the National Retail Federation’s “Hero of Main Street” award. ###
01.31.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after President Trump announced his nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court. “Once again President Trump has upheld his promise to the American people to nominate an exceptionally qualified, conservative originalist to the U.S. Supreme Court. Judge Gorsuch exhibits a reverence and understanding of the deliberate intent of each branch of our government. While the legacy of the late Justice Scalia will remain untouched, Judge Gorsuch will undoubtedly carry on the conservative principles and originalist interpretation of the U.S. Constitution that radiated in all of Justice Scalia’s opinions. “In his previous confirmation to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, Judge Gorsuch received unanimous support from the Senate. It is my hope that once again our colleagues in the Senate move quickly to confirm this outstanding nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court bench.” ###
01.29.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after President Trump issued executive action on refugees. “My top priority has always been to protect Americans at home and to do so by securing our borders. As he has made clear, President Trump is taking the steps well within his authority, and based off intelligence gathered in the Obama Administration, to keep our country safe. Congress should remain involved in the process and provide legislation to strengthen not only border security but vetting those who wish to enter the country through any means.” ###
01.25.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement after President Trump issued executive action on immigration today. “True to his promises on the campaign trail, President Trump got straight to work, wasting no time unraveling the dangerous, haphazard policies of the Obama Administration including its under-resourced approach to securing our border. I commend President Trump for his swift action on securing our borders and end the practice of sanctuary cities. “For far too long, the U.S. has been too lax with immigration policy at the expense of American citizens. The flood of illegal immigrants on the Southern border has proven to be a mounting American crisis—as Texas families know all too well. Since joining Congress, I have been consistently engaged in securing our border, and I am pleased to have a partner in the White House who is making that a priority.” ###
01.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement on President Trump's reinstatement of the Mexico City Policy, which will ban the performing and promotion of abortion services for all foreign non-governmental organizations. “I can think of no better time to take this important action than the day after the anniversary of Roe v. Wade and as we prepare for the March for Life this week. Life is a precious and sacred gift, and we must do all we can to protect it. I applaud President Trump for taking this important action and look forward to continuing to work together in advancing pro-life policies and protecting taxpayer dollars.” ###
01.20.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement on the inauguration of President Donald J. Trump and Vice President Michael R. Pence. "Throughout our nation's rich history, the Presidential Inauguration has signaled a new beginning and the fulfillment of a mandate issued by the people. I am optimistic and hopeful for the new chapter on which our country is about to embark. There is a great deal of work to be accomplished in the first 100 days of President Trump's Administration and I look forward to working with our new Commander-in-Chief and Vice President to deliver on our promise to the American people to make America strong, safe, proud and great again. Congratulations to our nation's 45th President Donald J. Trump and Vice President Michael R. Pence." ###
01.18.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement on the passing of Little Elm Detective Jerry Walker while serving in the line of duty. “It is the selfless dedication and courage that our law enforcement officers exhibit every day that keep us safe. This morning the town of Little Elm mourns the loss of one of our heroes in blue, Detective Jerry Walker. I had the privilege of meeting Detective Walker while he was on duty at one of my town halls in the summer of 2014. The simple presence of the police force in a community provides a sense of safety and security for its citizens. While every instance of violence that results in the death of a police officer is devastating, this loss has cast a shadow of sadness over our community. I extend my deepest sympathy to Detective Walker’s family and continue to keep them in my prayers.” ###
01.11.2017	President and founder of the Americans for Tax Reform, Grover Norquist, wrote a letter in support of H.R. 35, the Health Savings Act of 2017, introduced by Congressman Burgess earlier this year. This legislation ensures necessary improvements will be made to Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) allowing patients more control over how they finance their health care needs. Mr, Norquist urges all Member's of Congress to support and vote for this bill and believes it should be a key component in replacing Obamacare. Read the full letter of support from Mr. Norquist here.
01.10.2017	Washington, D.C. — Last night the House of Representatives passed the Improving Access to Maternity Care Act (H.R. 315), introduced by Congressman Michael C. Burgess M.D. (R-TX), Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA), and Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA). The Improving Access to Maternity Care Act would increase data collection by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to help place maternity care health professionals working in the National Health Service Corps (NHSC) throughout geographic regions experiencing a health professional shortage. “This legislation takes an important step to ensure more effective and efficient placement of maternity care providers in regions where they are needed the most through existing government programs,” said Burgess. “Consistent, high-quality maternity care is of the utmost importance for both mothers and babies to ensure a safe, healthy pregnancy. It is encouraging that the House of Representatives shares my belief that no mother should ever have to compromise access to quality maternity care based on her location in the country.” “As co-chair of the Congressional Maternity Care Caucus, I know that babies are born healthier when their mothers receive comprehensive prenatal and childbirth care,” said Roybal-Allard. “Tragically, more than a third of U.S. counties currently have no obstetricians or nurse midwives to provide pregnant women with the maternity care they need. Our legislation will help the Department of Health and Human Services identify which areas of the U.S. are in need of maternity care professionals, so that the Department can place doctors and midwives in these areas to offer comprehensive prenatal and childbirth care to mothers and babies.” “Today, many women in our country have to travel hundreds of miles to access maternity care services,” said Eshoo. “Expectant mothers need medical care from conception to birth, and studies have shown that mothers who do not receive this care, risk giving birth to children with serious health problems. This legislation will increase data collection to help target and place maternal health professionals in the many areas of our country that have chronic shortages of CNMs and OB-GYNs. As policymakers, it’s our responsibility to guarantee that every new mother has access to maternity care services. I’m proud to help lead this bipartisan effort in the House that will help to bring the appropriate care to expectant mothers and healthy newborns regardless of where they live.” “Across the country, women and babies suffer unnecessary risks due to a shortage of maternity care providers, including obstetrician-gynecologists,” Dr. Thomas Gellhaus, president of the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, said. “Access to quality maternal care is essential for healthy mothers and healthy babies and this legislation will help ensure that women’s health care providers are where they are most needed.” The National Health Service Corps provides student loan repayment to physicians and other health professionals in exchange for a commitment by those professionals to provide care in designated Health Professional Shortage Areas. This program has been effective in reducing provider shortages by inspiring new providers to start where they are needed most. This legislation would more effectively allocate maternity care providers based on an area or population’s specific needs. Maternity care providers’ participation will be targeted to areas with a demonstrated shortage of maternity care providers, not just a primary care shortage. This is a budget neutral bill. This bill has the support of several organizations including the American Medical Association (AMA), the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), the American College of Nurse-Midwives (ACNM) and the March of Dimes. Read the bill text here. ###
01.06.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) was named by House Energy and Commerce Chairman Greg Walden as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health for the 115th Congress. “Being chosen as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health is a career honor. Nearly 14 years ago, I left the medical practice that I spent my life building in North Texas to join Congress. I believed something needed to be done to address the burden of the federal government in health care—a burden that I have experienced firsthand as both a doctor and a patient,” said Burgess. Burgess, the most senior physician in the House of Representatives who served as chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade in the 114th Congress, said he is prepared and committed to serving the committee effectively in his new role. “Americans have been crushed under the weight of the ACA by its paralyzing costs, limited choices, and deafening inflexibility. We can do better. And more importantly, we will do better. Under the leadership of Chairman Walden and Speaker Ryan and in partnership with the Trump Administration, we will move forward to deliver on the promise of reforming our health care system to make it more affordable, accessible and patient-centered,” said Burgess. “Dr. Burgess has been a tremendous voice on the committee, and I look forward to working with him in his new role. As Chairman of the Health Subcommittee, we’ll be relying on his nearly three decades of experience practicing medicine to help guide some of our most critical work this year, including the repeal and replacement of Obamacare, and the implementation of MACRA,” said Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) “A tremendous amount of hard work lies ahead of us in the coming weeks. Along with Chairman Walden and the other members of the Subcommittee, I am unequivocally committed and prepared to take on this great endeavor.” Click here to visit the Energy and Commerce Committee website for a full list of subcommittee assignments. ###
01.04.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, launched a new, more user-friendly website to better communicate with and serve his constituents in the 26th district of Texas. Visitors to the website can request services from the “Constituent Services” section and sign up for the e-newsletter all from the homepage. “We live in a technologically advanced age, in which Americans rely on the internet to get digestible information quickly. This new user-friendly design will help constituents share their thoughts and comments with me more efficiently and access the information they need more easily. One of the most important responsibilities I have as your Representative in Congress is to help you gain access to the federal government—whether it be through Capitol tour requests or help getting in contact with a federal agency—this new, easily navigable website will help me do just that.” On Dr. Burgess’ new website constituents will find: · Legislative Issues: Stay up to date with what's going on in Washington and how it will affect North Texas. Get information on legislative issues like defense, national security, health care, education, and veterans. Click here to learn more. · The Many Ways Dr. Burgess Can Provide Assistance: Whether constituents need help with an issue they are having with a federal agency, would like to have a flag flown over the Capitol, or would like to request a White House or Capitol tour, this page is dedicated to the ways Dr. Burgess can assist. Click here for more information. · Latest News and Media: Get the latest videos, press releases, floor statements, photos, and committee statements. Dr. Burgess also just launched a blog that will provide additional information and resources about legislation. Click here to view the media section. In addition to Dr. Burgess’ new website, constituents can stay connected with Dr. Burgess by signing up for his weekly email updates, liking him on Facebook, following him on Twitter, following him on Instagram and connecting with him on You Tube. ###
12.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, released his 2016 Year-End Annual Report, a comprehensive review of a year’s work that showcases his legislative accomplishments, media presence, and constituent services and correspondence throughout 2016. Dr. Burgess notes that the annual report is part of his commitment to transparency with his constituents and a means of reflecting on and quantifying every function of both his Washington, D.C. and Lake Dallas district offices. “My top priority is to serve my constituents to the utmost of my ability. The people of the 26th District have entrusted me with the responsibility of this office and I am honored to have that trust. An important part of this role is accountability. Six years of divided government have made it difficult, but still 2016 saw some successes and a significant number of priorities were achieved. This report acts as a vehicle to track my progress and identify areas of improvement as we look ahead to the 115th Congress.” Additionally, Dr. Burgess released an infographic that summarizes all his work during both sessions of the 114th Congress. Click here to view the 2016 report. Click here to view Dr. Burgess’ 114th Congress in review. ###
12.13.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement in response to President-Elect Trump’s nomination of Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State. “I commend President-Elect Trump on his nomination of Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State. This prominent position in the Administration is tasked with the delicate balance of working to ease tensions around the globe while also ensuring U.S. national security and a strong foreign policy agenda. “Mr. Tillerson, a constituent of mine in the 26th district of Texas, has worked extensively with foreign leaders cultivating relationships that will only prove to benefit U.S. interests around the world. From the pipelines to the platforms, his experience leading the global efforts of one of America’s most successful companies has equipped him with the understanding and insight to navigate the current world stage. Congratulations to Mr. Tillerson on this honorable nomination.” ###
12.06.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today the House of Representatives passed S. 2873, the counterpart to H.R. 5395, the Expanding Capacity for Health Outcomes Act, or the ECHO Act, introduced by Congressman Michael C. Burgess M.D. (R-TX) and Congresswoman Doris Matsui (D-CA) in the House of Representatives. The Senate unanimously passed S. 2873 last week, introduced by Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI). It will now go to the President’s desk for signature. “The legislation will help improve our understanding of how technology-enabled medical education can strengthen the collaboration between specialty care doctors and primary care doctors helping them better serve their communities. The most effective way to ensure widespread access to care is by harnessing models that have proven successful during implementation on a smaller scale, like that of Project ECHO,” said Congressman Burgess. “I am grateful for Congresswoman Matsui’s collaboration on this important legislation and that our fellow House members share in recognizing the importance of passing the ECHO Act this Congress.” “Technology gives us the ability to connect our healthcare system in ways we never have been able to before,” said Congresswoman Doris Matsui. “In Sacramento, we’ve seen how the Project ECHO model can harness the power of technology to bring specialty expertise to community health centers and other providers in underserved areas. By passing the ECHO Act, communities across the country will now be able to benefit from this successful model to better serve patients in areas such as pain management and addiction. I’m thankful to Congressman Burgess for his leadership on this legislation, and look forward to building on this progress as we work to elevate innovative models to improve patient care and save lives.” The ECHO Act is a bipartisan, bicameral bill that aims to facilitate integration of Project ECHO or similar models into health systems across the country by requiring the Secretary to study and produce a report on the use and integration of technology-enabled collaborative learning and capacity building models by providers. According to CBO estimates, the legislation would not affect direct spending or revenues in the 10-year budget window of 2017-2026. Project ECHO, first started at the University of New Mexico in 2003, is a continuing medical education model that uses technology, such as interactive videoconferencing, to connect specialist physicians with primary care providers in rural and underserved areas. This guided practice model has proven overwhelmingly successful in growing workforce capacity to provide best-practice specialty care and reduce health disparities. ###
12.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement congratulating Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) on being selected as the next Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “The Steering Committee’s election of Greg Walden is an indication of just how highly esteemed he is held by the members of this Conference. Greg has a proven, successful track record of leadership and reaching across the aisle to accomplish meaningful legislation. I look forward to working with him in the 115th Congress to build upon the Energy and Commerce Committee's record of success.” ###
11.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 34). “This has been a long time coming—after 4 years, 2 Congresses, and nearly 20 roundtables, hearings, meetings and field hearings, the House is finally able to deliver on its promise to patients across the country. The 21st Century Cures Act is one of the most comprehensive legislative concepts the Energy & Commerce Committee has ever crafted. It will make government an ally, rather than an obstacle, in the cycle of medical innovation. And I am proud to have been actively involved in its development. “This bill makes desperately needed changes to bring our laws into a modern era of medicine and to keep our nation at the forefront of health care innovation, by streamlining regulation to deliver new therapies to all patients. I am pleased that several of my initiatives– including neurological research legislation and interoperability standards for Electronic Health Records – are part of this innovative step forward. “Additionally, H.R. 34 includes months of hard work and dedication that have culminated into the most significant reform to the mental health system in more than a decade. “The discretionary spending in the bill will ensure funding is subject to Congressional oversight and review through the appropriations process annually. Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle have been invested in the success of this legislation. We have made patients and their families wait long enough for life-saving cures—and now I am pleased to assure that the wait is over.” ###
11.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement in response to President-Elect Trump’s nomination of Chairman Tom Price, M.D. (R-GA) as Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services: "Having worked alongside Dr. Price on critical health care issues in the House Doctors Caucus, I am personally familiar with Dr. Price’s approach to health care solutions and have witnessed his dedication to both the patient and physician. As we look towards the great task of repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act, there is no better person to help usher this through the Department of Health and Human Services. Congratulations to Dr. Price on this honorable nomination.” ###
11.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the passing of Fidel Castro. "Having visited Cuba, I have seen the desperation and destruction that Fidel Castro's tyrant regime has cast over the Cuban people. While the end of this life signals a new beginning for the people of Cuba, all will be lost if the country's current leadership does not learn from the wrongdoings of past leaders to secure a more hopeful future for their people." ###
11.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement in response to the announcement from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that it will not issue a final guidance to regulate laboratory developed tests (LDTs). "I agree with the FDA’s decision not to move forward with this guidance. 21st Century medicine should not rely on trial-and-error, and unnecessary burdensome regulation of laboratory tests could send us back to the dark ages. As our country seeks to harness the value of precision medicine, we must not obstruct access to tools that enable clinicians to target treatment based on the personal profile of each individual patient. I am confident that the House Committee on Energy and Commerce will continue to engage with patients, providers, clinical labs, researchers, and the rest of the medical community to ensure federal policies allow diagnostic innovation to advance the state of health care for all Americans." ###
11.14.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement after the House passed the Improving Access to Maternity Care Act (H.R. 1209). “This legislation takes an important step to ensure more effective and efficient placement of maternity care providers in regions where they are needed the most through existing government programs. Consistent, high-quality maternity care is of the utmost importance for both a mother and baby to ensure a safe, healthy pregnancy. I appreciate that the House of Representatives shares my belief that no patients should ever have to compromise access to quality maternity care based on their location in the country.” ###
11.11.2016	Pictured left to right: Bill Lawrence, Congressman Michael Burgess, Robera DuTeil, Clinton Turner, Ginger Simonson, Chuck Wright Highland Village, TX – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, presented five U.S. Armed Forces members with the 2016 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC, established in 2005, honors distinguished veterans who have continued their dedication to the nation by serving their local community after selflessly serving their country in the military. This year’s commendations were presented at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon hosted by the City of Highland Village and the Highland Village Business Association. Nominations were received from the community, veterans’ organizations and civic groups. The five recipients of the 2016 Congressional Commendation are: Roberta DuTeil – Bartonville (U.S. Navy) William “Bill” Lawrence – Highland Village (U.S. Air Force) Virginia “Ginger” Simonson – Highland Village (U.S. Army) Clinton Turner – Denton (U.S. Army) Charles “Chuck” Wright – Frisco (U.S. Marine Corps) “While these selfless patriots may have retired their service uniforms, they are not finished serving our nation and our community,” said Burgess. “The caliber of this year’s nominations was overwhelmingly outstanding. I want to extend my deepest appreciation to all of the nominees for their service to our country.” “Our nation is truly blessed to have had such fine men and women answer the call to duty. As our armed forces bear the burden of protecting our liberty and freedom, our veterans deserve all of the respect and care that our country has to offer.” Each recipient had their narrative read by Congressman Burgess who also presented the commendation and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol. Local fallen heroes of the Afghanistan and Iraq conflicts and their families were also recognized for the ultimate sacrifice they made to defend our nation and protect our freedom. ###
10.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the FBI reopening the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. “The reopening of the FBI investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server is signal enough that her reckless actions in compromising national security are far more serious than the American people have been made aware. This time around the FBI must take a more thorough examination of Secretary Clinton’s mishandling of highly classified information and the severe risk at which she put all Americans—at home and abroad. I join Speaker Ryan in calling for the Director of National Intelligence to suspend all classified briefings for Secretary Clinton until the investigation is fully and properly conducted.” ###
10.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement about the impending premium cost increases for many Americans, due to the failure of ObamaCare. "The 'Bad News Chickens' of ObamaCare have come home to roost. And if they live in Texas, this will mean a premium increase of 33 percent on average--or as much as 116 percent for some across the country. With higher deductibles and co-pays, it is no surprise that former President Bill Clinton called this a 'crazy system.' The problem is compounded by the fact that now fewer and fewer Commercial Health Insurance Companies are continuing to participate. Higher costs, fewer choices, narrower provider networks- all add up to big problems for millions of hardworking Americans who are trying to provide coverage for their families and have found the landscape has dramatically shifted against them. Will the problems be fixed with more federal subsidies, more onerous penalties, and further consolidation of the insurance market by the interposition of a so called 'public option?' Or is there a 'better way' with a patient centered plan that prioritizes affordability and choice?" ###
10.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement ahead of President Obama’s remarks during which he is expected to defend his health care law, just weeks before the fourth open enrollment period begins for the Obamacare exchanges. “This afternoon, President Obama will stand up and declare victory for the ACA, but the President’s measure for success is deeply flawed and represents a view that is out-of-touch with the American people. Thirty million Americans remain uninsured, and millions of others are being forced to buy plans with premiums that cost more than a monthly mortgage payment and deductibles that leave them functionally uninsured. At the same time insurers are losing billions and fleeing the markets, causing costs to soar while consumer choice plummets. “Instead of acknowledging the problems in this law and working with Congress to remedy them, the Obama Administration continues to go to great lengths, sometimes illegally, to prop up the failing law in order to offer Americans unaffordable health care. Regardless of President Obama’s claims, there is no question that strengthening our health care system and making health care affordable for all Americans must be a top priority for the next Administration.” ###
10.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the Center of Medicare & Medicaid Services’ release of the final physician payment rule implementing the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA). “A thorough and critical reading of the MACRA final rule will take some time, however on initial review I am pleased to see significant alterations and increased flexibility built in that reflect changes called for by the medical community. In particular, it is evident that the regulation is responsive to the needs and concerns presented by small, independent, and rural practices. I appreciate that CMS and Administrator Slavitt have taken every possible step to maximize and incorporate the input from clinicians. “As we look towards implementation of MACRA, it will be important that we remain open to legislative remedies to ensure that the law meets the needs of patients and providers—not bureaucrats or politicians. Unlike the ACA, this law was carefully crafted with those it will affect in mind—both patients and physicians. It is now important for Congress to continue oversight to be certain the law is carried out exactly as intended. “It is more important now than ever before that medical societies are doing everything possible to prepare their members for success in the transition to MACRA. The release of this rule underscores the importance of involvement from all those affected in the rulemaking process and the importance of appointing strong and committed agency leadership.” Access the final rule from CMS here. ###
10.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the Center of Medicare & Medicaid Services’ announcement of a new initiative to improve the clinician experience with the Medicare program. "I am encouraged by CMS’ efforts to improve its engagement with clinicians and the concrete steps the agency is taking to implement clinician-driven solutions. It is clear that the listening sessions that CMS has been conducting have increased the agency’s understanding of the divide between how physicians practice and the agency’s regulation of the industry. As we await the final rule, CMS must continue prioritizing flexibility to allow physicians to focus on patient care.” Read the CMS press release here. ###
10.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement about the Drug Enforcement Administration’s (DEA) intent to place the active materials in kratom, Mitragynine and 7-hydroxymitragynine, in the Schedule I category of controlled substances. "The DEA announced on August 31, 2016, it intended to temporarily classify kratom as a Schedule I drug. Under current law, the DEA does have the authority to place a substance under a temporary schedule for up to two years, if that substance is deemed an imminent hazard to public safety. The DEA stated this decision was due to the fact that kratom was commonly marketed as a legal alternative to illegal substances. Additionally, law enforcement has seen a drastic increase in kratom trafficking and usage. "Because of public concern, the DEA recently withdrew its notice to temporarily schedule kratom and will be taking public comment on the matter until December 1, 2016. Prior to this announcement, I made a formal inquiry to the DEA, requesting they explain their reasoning behind this decision. The DEA has utilized its authority to temporarily schedule substances in the past. However, the abrupt nature of the DEA’s actions, in this instance, is without precedent and going forward should warrant a more open process. It is imperative that decisions such as this are properly scrutinized by the Congress and that the public has the opportunity to offer comments to ensure an informed review process. I encourage you to make your comments known to the DEA prior to the December 1 deadline." ###
10.09.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement. "When I heard of the comments made by Mr. Trump in 2005, I was distressed. I cannot condone nor defend these remarks. However as Mr. Trump stated, this campaign has changed him as a candidate and a man and this election needs to be about which candidate will advance our conservative principles. Based on comments made by Hillary Clinton in paid speeches, there is no doubt Mr. Trump remains the best candidate for President. Saturday morning I was contacted by a constituent. Her observation: 'A vote for Trump is not to condone his behavior, but to preserve what little freedom we have left in America.' I could not agree more." ###
09.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement after voting against the passage of H.R. 5325, a continuing resolution for the fiscal year of 2016. “There is far too much at stake in this election year to not address the essential issues at the forefront of concern for so many of our constituents. This election cycle has made it clear Americans will no longer accept business as usual. And this spending deal admits Congress’ refusal to acknowledge that. “I could not support a deal that did not take action to prevent the transition of U.S. oversight of the internet to an international entity—an action that cannot be undone. “Also of great importance to me, the short-term funding spending measure neglected to put one dime towards establishing a more stringent vetting system for Syrian refugees. Currently, the Administration is on track to far exceed its goal by admitting 12,500 Syrian refugees in fiscal year 2016 alone and aims to admit 110,000 refugees over the next 12 months. Anyone who enters into this country must be properly vetted to ensure there is no risk of letting terrorist sympathizers slip through the cracks. We continue to lack the necessary resolve to thoroughly vet refugee applicants from Syria. And unfortunately, the CR failed to address that problem. “It is my hope that as we begin negotiating the longer-term spending bills for December, we address the serious failings of this Administration and do not concede to a comprehensive omnibus bill.” ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), joined by Representatives Kathy Castor (D-FL.), Gene Green (D-TX) and Richard Hudson (R-NC) today introduced the MISSION ZERO Act, to assist assigning Department of Defense (DoD) trauma surgeons to civilian trauma centers filling a gap in care recently examined by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine. This legislation will address variations in care methods that exist, while also providing military surgeons with additional training. U.S. Senators Mark Kirk (R-IL), John Cornyn (R-TX) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) are original cosponsors of the legislation have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “Our military has made incredible strides in delivering trauma care, saving countless lives that would have otherwise been lost,” said Rep. Burgess, M.D. “This expertise should be brought home to our civilian trauma centers and systems, American lives shouldn’t depend on where one is injured. The MISSION Zero Act would establish a grant program to foster partnership between our military and civilian trauma providers to benefit all Americans. I am proud to be part of this important bipartisan, bicameral legislation to strengthen our nation’s trauma care and save more lives on and off the battlefield.” Currently, trauma care in the United States is a patchwork of regional systems and incomplete data registries. Mortality and disability in traumatic injury can be greatly reduced through integrated, permanent joint civilian and military trauma system training platforms, in order to create and sustain an expert trauma workforce between periods of active combat. The MISSION ZERO Act is endorsed by the American Congress of Neurological Surgeons, Trauma Care Association of America, American College of Emergency Physicians and American College of Surgeons. This bill would address this problem by creating two grant programs totaling $40 million: The Military Trauma Team Placement Program will allow the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants to as many as 20 high acuity trauma centers to enable military trauma teams to provide full-time trauma care. Recipients of these grants must allow providers of military trauma care to be deployed by DoD for military operations, training, or in response to a mass casualty incident. The second program, the Military Trauma Care Provider Placement Program, will allow ASPR in consultation with DoD, to award grants to trauma centers so they can train and incorporate military trauma care providers into the centers. Recipients of grants under this program must also allow providers to be deployed by DoD for military operations, training, or in response to a mass casualty incident. “This bill is common sense. By keeping our military personnel active and in training, we ensure military readiness while helping areas throughout the state that need it most, whether it is assisting Chicago area trauma centers during high crime peaks, or in rural areas where access to trauma response is limited. Partnerships between our civilian and military health networks should be generated to improve our trauma response network to improve health outcomes,” said Senator Kirk. “In recent years, the unprecedented challenges military doctors have faced on the battlefield in places like Iraq and Afghanistan have led to impressive trauma care developments that can and should benefit all Americans who might face such injuries,” Senator Cornyn said. “I’m thankful for the work of Senator Kirk to make sure our military doctors have a place to continue their important work, keep their skills in trauma care finely honed, and lend their expertise to civilian hospitals at home.” “Our service men and women bring unique and valuable skills and training to the medical field, whether it’s operating in high-pressure situations or having a can-do attitude that comes with serving in uniform,” said Senator Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “In addition, acute care at trauma centers nationwide will greatly benefit from increased access to highly qualified medical professionals. Integrating our nation’s best trauma centers with military trauma providers will ultimately have the greatest benefit to the American people?” “This grant program will support the development of a national trauma care system that allows for the continuous and seamless exchange of knowledge across the military and civilian health care sectors,” said Rep. Green. “This would better provide optimal delivery of trauma care to save the lives of Americans injured within the United States or on the battlefield. As we grapple with how to best support our men and women in uniform and respond to tragedies at home, we must make certain that our trauma systems and centers are best prepared to save lives.” “As a Representative of North Carolina – home of the epicenter of the universe, Fort Bragg – I understand how critical it is for our military trauma teams to maintain their unique medical skills off the battlefield,” said Rep. Hudson. “That’s why I’m proud to join my colleagues to introduce this bipartisan bill that will place military trauma teams into high acuity civilian trauma centers, empowering them to hone their expertise and enhancing our civilian trauma centers across the country.” “We need to build on the unique partnership between Tampa General Hospital and military medical professionals from MacDill Air Force Base. MacDill is home to the 6th Air Medical Group that serves the Sixth Air Mobility Wing, U.S. Central Command and U.S. Special Operations Command,” said Rep. Castor. “In 2011, the MacDill Air Medical Group and Tampa General Hospital launched a ‘full team’ training initiative with nurses, surgeons and specialists. The initiative allows military and civilian medical teams to hone their skills in intense trauma environments and thereby keep them sharp to care for our warfighters. These partnerships are going to be vital for continued training for our community and our military. It should be replicated in other trauma centers across the U.S.” "We applaud Dr. Burgess, Reps. Green, Hudson and Castor and Senators Kirk, Cornyn and Isakson for introducing legislation highlighting the critical issue of improving our trauma care system. Increasing military civilian partnerships is a critical step forward toward achieving the goal of zero preventable traumatic injury deaths both domestically and abroad,” said David B. Hoyt, MD, FACS, Executive Director American College of Surgeons. "The American Association of Neurological Surgeons and Congress of Neurological Surgeons are pleased to endorse the MISSION Zero Act,” said Shelly D. Timmons, MD, PhD, a practicing neurosurgeon at Penn State Hershey specializing in trauma. “This legislation would provide an outstanding opportunity for our nation's trauma centers and military to collaborate for the benefit of our servicemen and women, and to augment the capabilities of trauma centers around the country." Read the full bill text here. ###
09.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced the Immunosuppressive Drug Coverage for Kidney Transplant Patients Act. This legislation would allow individuals who are eligible for immunosuppressive drugs under Medicare Part B to continue to receive their vital treatment past the current 36 month cutoff. Without these drugs, transplant recipients are at risk to lose their transplanted kidneys – which too often occurs. “After the stress of undergoing an organ transplant and enduring the length of recovery, patients should not have to worry that a mandate from the federal government would prevent them from receiving treatment for as long as may be required,” said Burgess. “Patients should not have to sacrifice quality care due to the federal policy that denies coverage for anti-rejection drugs after 36 months. I am pleased to join Representative Kind in reintroducing this commonsense, bipartisan policy that will safeguard both patients and taxpayer dollars by preventing more costly alternatives such as organ rejection or return to dialysis.” “Our organ transplant patients and their families should not be concerned about an arbitrary federal policy denying them access to medications that help them keep their transplanted kidney,” said Kind. “The legislation Rep. Burgess and I have introduced will provide kidney transplant patients continued access to medication to ensure the success of their transplant, while keeping health care costs down by decreasing the need for further dialysis and the likelihood of a re-transplant.” Since 1972, Medicare has covered patients with irreversible kidney failure, or end-stage renal disease (ESRD). While there is no Medicare time limit for a dialysis patient, kidney transplant recipients lose their Medicare coverage 36 months after they receive their transplant. Extending immunosuppressive coverage beyond the 36 month limit would decrease the risk of organ failure due to patients neglecting to take the immunosuppressants following loss of immunosuppressive coverage. Furthermore, transplant recipients have a higher quality of life, and are more likely to return to employment than dialysis patients. The bill has support from numerous groups including the American Medical Association (AMA), National Kidney Foundation (NKF), American Society of Transplant Surgeons (ASTS), American Society of Transplantation (AST), American Society of Nephrology (ASN), American Society of Pediatric Nephrology (ASPN), American Association of Kidney Patients (AAKP), Association of Organ Procurement Organizations (AOPO), Dialysis Patient Citizens (DPC) and Renal Physicians Association (RPA). “As a kidney transplant recipient myself, I can tell you that for many patients the costs of immunosuppressive medication can be prohibitive, and it just isn’t something you can skip. There are 100,000 people on the kidney transplantation wait list and a severe shortage of donated kidneys available. With an average wait time of five years for a transplant, public policy makers and the transplant community must do everything possible to provide, and maintain, coverage for transplant recipients,” said Kevin Longino, Chief Executive Officer, National Kidney Foundation (NKF). "The immunosuppression bill will give access to lifesaving immunosuppressive therapies to transplant recipients who without critical drugs may lose their transplanted organs. The American Society of Transplantation (AST) applauds the leadership of congressmen Burgess and Kind in supporting passage of the Comprehensive Immunosuppressive Drug Coverage for Kidney Transplant Patients Act of 2016,” said Dr. Anil Chandraker, M.D., President, American Society of Transplantation (AST). ###
09.21.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement in response to the passage of the Improving Access to Maternity Care Act (H.R. 1209) through the Energy & Commerce full committee. “Consistent, high-quality maternity care is of the utmost importance for both a mother and baby during pregnancy. H.R. 1209 is an important step in addressing critical shortages of maternity care providers across the country. I am appreciative that the full committee recognizes the value of helping place more maternity care providers where they are needed most throughout the country and for the dedication of the professional organizations in advancing this important piece of legislation.” The National Health Service Corps provides student loan repayment to physicians and other health professionals in exchange for a commitment to provide care in designated Health Professional Shortage Areas. This program has been effective in reducing provider shortages by inspiring new providers to start where they are needed most. This legislation would more effectively allocate maternity care providers based on an area or population’s specific needs. Maternity care providers will continue to be able to participate, but their participation will be targeted to areas with a demonstrated shortage of maternity care providers, not just a primary care shortage. This is a budget neutral bill. ###
09.15.2016	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement in response to the passage of H.R. 5351, which he co-sponsored, that would prohibit the transfer of any detainees from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay. “President Obama was sworn into office with the predetermined mission of closing the Guantanamo Bay detainment facility. Before ordering an investigation to be conducted or even seeing the naval station firsthand in his new position as Commander in Chief, this reckless agenda was already decided. “The Obama Administration has taken a reckless approach to admonishing some of the most dangerous terrorists who have ever stepped foot on U.S. soil. Over 30% of prisoners released from Guantanamo have returned to the battlefield. It is unfathomable to me that a discussion is even needed about transferring these detainees, who were brought to Guantanamo for serious reason—the least of which is direct involvement in plotting or executing deadly attacks against the United States and our allies. “For the last seven years, Congress has explicitly rejected the President’s irresponsible path to closing the detainment facility. I am proud to stand with fellow members of the House of Representatives in defense of Americans and the processes on which this country was built.” ###
09.08.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement in response to today’s announcement from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) on MACRA flexibility. “I am pleased that CMS has heard my calls and the calls of the provider community for the flexibility in transitioning to the new payment reporting requirements. Today’s announcement from CMS regarding the agency’s dedication to flexibility in the implementation of MACRA is proof of the benefits of keeping Congress involved in policy implementation. Just as this policy was carefully crafted with the input of everyone affected by the payment policies, the implementation process should be conducted in the same way. I am committed to leading the charge for continued Congressional oversight of MACRA implementation to ensure simplified, streamlined requirements that allow for all doctors to succeed.” Read the full announcement from CMS here. ###
08.31.2016	FLOWER MOUND, TX— This morning Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, joined the Town of Flower Mound for its Economic Development Forum at the Innovate Flower Mound, the Town's newly-opened entrepreneurial center. Dr. Burgess spoke about the work that the House Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade is doing to prevent burdensome federal regulations from impeding growth, innovation and job creation. Under the chairmanship of Dr. Burgess, the Subcommittee has held a string of hearings known as the “Disrupters Series” to examine emerging technologies, such as the sharing economy, the block chain, mobile payments, 3-D printing, and the Internet of Things. ###
08.31.2016	DENTON, TX— This week, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, attended the grand opening of the North Texas Low Income Taxpayer Clinic (LITC) in Denton. While at the grand opening, Dr. Burgess addressed attendees and expressed his appreciation for the collaboration between the Denton United Way and the North Texas LITC in meeting the tax needs of the low-income population in Denton County. Additionally, Dr. Burgess had the opportunity to speak with some of the University of North Texas (UNT) graduate accounting students who will be providing the clinic’s taxpayer services, while under the supervision of a licensed tax professional. ###
08.09.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement in response to the release of the Independence at Home program’s year 2 performance data by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) today. “I am pleased to see that the second year performance data for the Independence at Home program continues to demonstrate its value in delivering high quality care to Medicare patients in the home, while generating significant savings for taxpayers. I worked hard with my counterparts in the House and Senate to ensure that this program would remain available to high-risk Medicare beneficiaries through 2017. I remain committed to the sustained success of the IAH program to guarantee that Medicare beneficiaries continue to receive valuable and cost-effective benefits.” More information on the recent data from CMS here. ###
08.04.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement in response to the calls for the Senate to return to secure Zika funding that the House of Representatives passed back in June. “For months now Senate Democrats and the Obama Administration have been stressing the dire threat Zika poses to the United States. And in return, their response was to vote down funding for their own priority that was already passed by the House. Actions speak louder than words. The combined actions of Senate Democrats and the Obama Administration make it difficult to see their actions as anything other than political gamesmanship. “Now this alarming virus has infected over 40 of our U.S. military service members and nearly 6,000 Americans in U.S. states and territories. It’s time for the Senate to act to secure the funding that the House of Representatives passed back in June to combat Zika before this public health crisis spirals any further out of control.” ###
08.02.2016	McAllen, TX – Yesterday Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade visited the Rio Grande Valley’s first central processing center for unaccompanied alien children (UAC) that have entered into the U.S. illegally. The purpose of his visit was to see the current state of the unaccompanied minor crisis at the border. Congressman Burgess was briefed by leadership at the Rio Grande Valley’s Centralized Processing Center on the process by which unaccompanied alien children are processed from apprehension to intake and then to ultimate transition out of the facility. Additionally, the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) informed Dr. Burgess of the health screening policies, including protocols and procedures followed for children at risk of or diagnosed with an infectious disease. Dr. Burgess was also updated on the protocols and procedures to identify victims of trafficking, and physical or sexual abuse, as well as the capacity of the facilities to accommodate over 20,000 children crossing the border. “Tens of thousands of unaccompanied minors continue to cross the Texas border illegally from Mexico every year. While the number does fluctuate the crisis remains unabated for the last 2 years,” said Burgess. “It is clear that there is a significant amount of work to be done here. Thank you to the staff from the RGV Centralized Processing Center, ORR and HHS for taking the time to show me around the facilities. “Yesterday’s visit has only reaffirmed my commitment to protecting and strengthening our borders. While on my tour, I witnessed six individuals, including a 3 month old infant, be apprehended by U.S. Border Patrol guardsmen while trying to enter the U.S. illegally. “I continue to call on the President to visit the border and see for himself the challenges of the ever changing region. You simply cannot grasp the magnitude of the problem in the lower Rio Grande valley sector unless you can see it for yourself. This must be a priority for the man tasked with shaping the United States’ immigration policy.” The Rio Grande Valley’s Centralized Processing Center was opened in July 2014 as a central place to house unaccompanied alien children (UAC) and eliminate overcrowding at the Border Patrol McAllen Station. ###
07.08.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement in response to the ambush in downtown Dallas that left four Dallas Police officers and one DART officer dead and seven injured. “Words cannot begin to describe my sorrow for the devastation that Dallas experienced last night. Today, the city of Dallas mourns the five precious lives that were lost in an act of senseless violence. This is not the way to move our country forward. “Our Dallas heroes in blue reported for duty last night, as they do every night, selflessly putting their lives on the line in the face of unimaginable danger to protect their communities and fellow citizens. “This brave profession falls under harsh scrutiny on a daily basis. It is important that we recognize the sacrifices of these men and women and their critical role in protecting our communities. “Today, we mourn together for the great loss of not only the Dallas Police Department, but also the city of Dallas as a whole. “At this time, our nation’s police force requires the support of all Americans in their mission to protect and serve. Today, not only are we all Americans, we are all Texans.” ###
06.30.2016	LEWISVILLE, TX— As Independence Day approaches, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. “Our nation’s veterans have honorably served our country to preserve our freedom, and it is because of their service that we enjoy all the liberties we are afforded,” said Dr. Burgess. “These brave men and women deserve our thanks and praise, and I am proud to recognize the veterans in Texas’ 26th Congressional District and honor their service through the 2016 Congressional Veteran Commendation.” To nominate a veteran for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation, please fill out the nomination form, which can be found on Congressman Burgess’ website at http://burgess.house.gov. The deadline for submitting nominations is September 19, 2016. The completed nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, should be submitted to Congressman Burgess’ Lake Dallas office. To be eligible for nomination, veterans must be currently residing in the 26th District of Texas, have served the nation honorably during their military career, and subsequently demonstrated dedication to their community. Those individuals selected to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation will be recognized and honored at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association on November 10, 2016. An in-depth interview will be conducted with commendees and that interview will be forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection. For more information regarding the project, visit the Library of Congress’ website. To obtain additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the 26th District of Texas, please contact Congressman Burgess’ Deputy District Director, Robin Vaughan, at (940) 497-5031 or visit Congressman Burgess’ website. ###
06.27.2016	LEWISVILLE, TX— Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in Whole Woman’s Health vs. Hellerstedt, which strikes down the Texas law that would provide essential protections for women’s health. “I am disheartened and disappointed by the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down the Texas law establishing reasonable and essential protections for the health and safety of women. This decision will allow abortion facilities to continue conducting medical procedures without common-sense quality standards. It is disgraceful that following the horrifying conditions of Pennsylvania abortionist Kermit Gosnell’s clinic and resulting murder conviction, the Supreme Court wouldn’t allow the state of Texas to take the critical steps to ensure women are receiving safe and appropriate care. "This is a clear instance of federal overreach that seizes the long-standing right of states to set safety standards for providing medical care to patients. As a former practicing OB-GYN, I remain committed to protecting unborn lives and quality health care and medical services for women.” ###
06.21.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Michael Burgess M.D. (R-TX) and Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) introduced bipartisan legislation aimed at making health care more affordable by promoting greater transparency around the costs of health care services for patients. The Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act of 2016 calls upon the states to establish and maintain laws requiring disclosure of information on hospital charges, to make such information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. “At no point in the course of care should patients ever be left in the dark, lacking critical information to make the most informed decision about treatment options, particularly when it comes to cost. Our current health insurance system insulates patients from the true cost of health services,” said Rep. Burgess. “This legislation takes the first step towards ensuring true price transparency in the health care market.” “The fact that patients rarely know what health care services cost until after they've received them and the wide variety in pricing, make the health care market uniquely difficult to navigate,” said Rep. Green. “Greater transparency around prices of health care services will enable patients and families to choose lower-cost, high-value care and promote competition in the market. This bill is an important first step towards empowering patients and advancing value-based care.” Additionally, this bill calls for research on: (1) the types of cost information that individuals find useful in making decisions regarding healthcare; (2) how this useful information varies according to an individual’s health insurance coverage, and if so, by what type of coverage they have; and (3) ways that this information may be distributed in a timely and simple manner. According to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, total health care spending in the United States grew 2.9 percent in 2013 and another 5.3 percent in 2014, reaching $3.0 trillion or $9,523 per person. This is a $300 billion increase in total spending since 2011 and is projected to grow at an average rate of 5.8 percent per year. As a share of the nation's Gross Domestic Product, health spending accounts for 17.5 percent and expected to reach 19.6 percent by 2024. The bill has the support of numerous groups including the American Hospital Association (AHA). “We strongly support the Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act. This legislation builds on existing state efforts, while requiring insurers to provide information on estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services, often the most valuable information for insured patients. Patients should have all available tools to help them make important choices about their care,” said Tom Nickels, Executive Vice President of Government Relations and Public Policy at the American Hospital Association. ###
06.17.2016	Denton, TX — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade today announced the Class of 2020 Service Academy Appointees from the 26th Congressional District and recognized these distinguished future military leaders. The appointees will be attending the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. “I am grateful that so many young North Texans have accepted this challenge to serve their country,” said Burgess. “It is an honor to be able to support these young men and women as they set out on this challenging endeavor with their admirable intent to serve our country as future officers in our nation’s armed forces. I wish them all the best of luck and know that they will make Texas’ 26th Congressional District proud.” Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are rigorously evaluated on a variety of criteria including academic performance, leadership qualifications and physical preparedness. Appointments to an academy must be preceded by a nomination from a Member of Congress, Academy Superintendent, the Vice President or a military connected nomination. The exception is to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, where a nomination is not required for consideration, but appointments are based upon a competitive nationwide admissions process. In 26th Congressional District of Texas, applicants also undergo a board review lead by former Air Force Academy Superintendent and Lieutenant General (USAF Ret.) Charles Hamm. Other board members include active duty Armed Forces, former service academy graduates, community leaders, and administrators from local higher education institutions. Those students from the 26th Congressional District entering the service academies are as follows: U.S. Military Academy (Army) - West Point, NY Alex Albright (Copper Canyon) Christopher Dao (Westlake) Honor Fusselman (Trophy Club) Andrea Karlen (Roanoke) U.S. Naval Academy - Annapolis, MD Nick Haslam (Roanoke) David Shin (The Colony) U.S. Merchant Marine Academy - Kings Point, NY Zach Arcos-Honeycutt (Prosper) Quinn Bauer (Lewisville) Grant Carter (Sanger) Connor Green (Flower Mound) Samuel Kittlitz (Lewisville) Gemma Nguyen (Frisco) U.S. Air Force Academy - Colorado Springs, CO Danesh Bam (Flower Mound) Ben Blessing (Frisco) Nick Blessing (Frisco) Chandler Claterbaugh (Flower Mound) Cody Jones (Flower Mound) Geraud Sanders (Frisco) Kayla Wofford (Lewisville) ###
06.13.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement in response to the terrorist attack in Orlando. “This weekend I was devastated to see yet another act of terrorism on American soil seize more innocent lives. While a tragic number of Americans were lost in this act of senseless violence, I am appreciative of the bravery of the Orlando Police Department and the tireless work of the medical professionals at the Orlando Regional Medical Center and other local hospitals that helped mitigate further loss of life. “Over the last seven and half years, the United States and its citizens have fallen victim to and witnessed far too many acts of terror under the leadership of the Obama Administration. It's clear the President’s laissez faire approach to combatting terrorism and protecting all Americans is failing dangerously. “Again, President Obama refuses to acknowledge just what this act was—an act of radical Islamic terrorism. This is not a criminal justice issue this is a national security issue. It's time the Administration stops using these tragedies as a ploy to progress its big government agenda and unarm law abiding citizens, stripping them of their constitutional right to protect themselves. “When I return to DC this week, the House of Representatives will be voting on the Department of Defense Appropriations Act which will ensure that our military forces have the support they need to combat radical Islamic terrorism and keep it off American soil. But overall, Americans need a Commander-in-Chief with the strategy and will to win.” ###
06.07.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Michael Burgess M.D. (R-TX) and Congresswoman Doris Matsui (D-CA) introduced the Expanding Capacity for Health Outcomes (ECHO) Act to increase patient access to best-practice specialty care through an innovative telehealth model. This legislation would require the Government Accountability Office and the Department of Health and Human Services, in collaboration with the Health Resources and Services Administration, to examine the benefits of integrating the Project ECHO model into local health systems across the country. Project ECHO, first started at the University of New Mexico in 2003, is a continuing medical education model that uses technology, such as interactive videoconferencing, to connect specialist physicians with primary care providers in rural or hard-to-reach regions. This guided practice model has proven overwhelmingly successful in growing workforce capacity to provide best-practice specialty care and reduce health disparities. “As a former practicing physician, I believe that patients should not have to compromise access to quality specialty and primary care based on their location in the country. The most efficient and effective way to ensure widespread access to care is by harnessing models that have proven successful during implementation on a smaller scale, like that of Project ECHO,” said Burgess. “I look forward to working with Representative Matsui to strengthen the collaboration between specialty care doctors and primary care doctors to help them better serve their communities.” “Through the ECHO Model, both patients and providers benefit from a more efficient health IT ecosystem,” said Congresswoman Matsui. “The model breaks down barriers in access to specialty care by increasing provider education and bolstering the workforce in underserved areas. In my district, we are seeing the promise of health IT with projects like the UC Davis ECHO Pain Management program, which uses video mentoring to support community primary care clinicians. The ECHO Act would maximize the opportunities of technology in a way that truly transforms our healthcare landscape. I look forward to continued collaboration with Congressman Burgess on advancing this important legislation.” The bill has support from numerous groups including the American Medical Association (AMA) and the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC). “This legislation is noteworthy because it builds bridges in areas needing them. First, Project ECHO is bridging geographic divides to connect physicians and experts with patients in underserved, rural areas. Using new technologies, Project ECHO has potential to bolster access to specialists, reduce incidence of chronic disease, and rein in costs through reduced travel and fewer ER visits. This legislation would provide policymakers with critical information to expand such models to improve clinical practice. Second, it is an example of building bridges in Congress. This type of bipartisan, practical legislation is Congress at its best,” said Dr. Barbara McAneny, immediate past chair of the American Medical Association. “Finally, as Project ECHO is now working, it emphasizes collaboration between the local university and the local medical community, replacing competition for patients with an approach that focuses on convenience and access.” “The Project ECHO model, which connects primary care providers to specialists, allows health center providers to develop the expertise to manage and meet the complex needs of patients within their own health center. This is especially important for health centers in rural areas, which often have less access to specialty providers and higher incidence of chronic diseases. Thanks to the efforts of Dr. Burgess and Representative Matsui, the Expanding Connectivity for Health Outcomes (ECHO) Act, which studies the use of collaborative learning models, like Project ECHO, will provide needed information to further expand the integration of this innovative model and, in doing so, enhance patient access to quality care,” said Dan Hawkins, Senior VP, Public Policy and Research, National Association of Community Health Centers. ###
05.18.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today the House of Representatives passed the fiscal year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which included an amendment sponsored by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) that would allow Congress to see and evaluate the progress being made by the Pentagon on its required audit. In 1990, Congress passed the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, requiring every federal Department and Agency to produce verifiable financial statements that could be fully audited. Almost 30 years later, every major agency has fulfilled this requirement with the exception of the Department of Defense. Congressman Burgess’ amendment requests DoD to rank in order, from most ready to be audited to least ready to be audited, every entity within the Department that is required to provide financial statements for the overall effort of the Department-wide audit. After working with Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA) for years on this provision, the amendment was included for the first time in the defense authorization bill signed into law last year. The Pentagon submitted the requested report to Congress late last year. It is important to continue oversight of the DoD by again requiring a report providing a comparison from year to year on auditable financial statements. It is Congressman Burgess’ hope that this will compel the Pentagon to conduct the full financial audit that is required of it by law. “After 25 years of non-compliance with the law, I am glad the DoD is finally making progress. However, we must continue to put pressure on the Pentagon to comply with federal law in working towards a full audit,” said Burgess. “Our national security and defense is of the utmost importance; the Pentagon must be held to the same level of accountability that other public sector agencies are held to when it comes to the spending of taxpayer dollars.” The amendment was cosponsored by Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Congressman Peter Welch (D-VT). ###
05.16.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement in observance of National Police Week. “Every day law enforcement officers across the United States put their lives on the line to protect their communities and fellow Americans. In return, the House of Representatives is dedicated to ensuring our police officers feel supported and have access to the resources needed to carry out their duties. Particularly at a time when this heroic profession is under great criticism, it is vital that we recognize the noble sacrifices of these men and women. The simple presence of the police force in a community deters bad actors and provides a sense of safety and security for its citizens. I remain focused on protecting the police officers of the 26th Congressional District of Texas who tirelessly protect us.”
05.13.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement on the federal ruling in House v. Burwell, the House of Representatives’ lawsuit on Obamacare. “The U.S. District Court’s ruling is one step closer to victory for the American people and for the rule of law. The federal judge’s decision confirms that the Obama Administration has been unlawfully paying insurers without the required authorization from Congress—violating the law and seizing a role clearly reserved for Congress in Article I of the Constitution. “Billions of taxpayer dollars were dished out illegally to keep insurers from fleeing Obamacare, yet premiums continue to skyrocket and insurers continue to withdraw from markets across the country. Our founding fathers created a system of checks and balances to guard against the threat of a tyrannical government—the Obama Administration must stop operating like a monarchy and respect the role of Congress. This is not only another great victory for the United States House Committee on Rules which crafted the resolution, but also for the constitutional balance of power.” ###
05.13.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement regarding the passage of legislation to combat the opioid epidemic by the House of Representatives. “This week the people’s House took a significant step in confronting our nation’s opioid abuse epidemic. The devastating impact of addiction and abuse has been felt in every community across America—the bills passed this week put in place the tools necessary to fight this crisis and win. “The House’s response to this public health threat strikes a careful balance to ensure that we do not obstruct patients’ access to pain medication that they truly need. It is more important than ever that we arm doctors with the accurate, complete, and up-to-date information they need to prescribe controlled substances for their patients appropriately. “While we must act accordingly to ensure that these powerful pain medications do not fall into the hands of abusers, we must be sure that those experiencing chronic pain, particularly our veterans, can still access their medication.” ###
05.04.2016	Lake Dallas, TX — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement on the suspension of Senator Cruz’s 2016 Presidential campaign. “Congratulations to the Cruz camp for fighting the good fight. Senator Cruz has been a dedicated leader of the Republican party and I have an immense amount of respect for him and his family. I endorsed Senator Cruz early on for the Presidency because I believe that he is a strong and proven conservative leader that would have made an exceptional President. But the people have spoken and now we must turn our focus to the general election. It is critical that the Republican party unites to take back the White House in 2017 and ensure that our country is not subject to a detrimental Clinton Administration. As I have said before, I plan to put all of my support behind the Republican nominee and do whatever is asked of me to ensure a Republican is elected President.” ###
04.27.2016	Lake Dallas, TX — Today, Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, announced the winner of the 14th annual 26th Congressional District high school art competition. The art competition was open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the district. Meghan Adams, a senior art student of Kathy Toews at Marcus High School in Flower Mound, won the Grand Prize with her color photograph entitled “One Team.” As the Grand Prize winner, Meghan will have her artwork displayed for an entire year in the U.S. Capitol and has the opportunity to attend the national ceremony in Washington, D.C. this June. The ceremony will honor the winning artists from congressional districts all over the country. “This competition was designed to foster and encourage the creative development of local high school students across the country,” said Burgess. “I am overwhelmed by the level of talent in the numerous submissions from the 26th district. Meghan’s creativity is inspiring and we are honored to have her represent our district in the halls of the U.S. Capitol.” Wendy Ampuero won the “Texas Choice” category for her colored pencil artwork entitled “Warrior Woman.” She is a senior art student of Mark Parr at Little Elm High School. The “Texas Choice” winner was selected by popular vote from the virtual gallery on Congressman Burgess’ website. Jurist Jo Williams, professional artist and instructor, reviewed the posted artwork and determined the contest finalists based upon artistic merit. The Juror's Award for the Grand Prize and First Place recognitions were based on the appraisal of each piece of artwork’s level of artistic merit. Additionally, Bryant Grizzle, a senior at Flower Mound High School and a student of Michelle Harper, won First Place for his pen drawing entitled “Corralled but Content.” Bryant’s artwork will be displayed in Congressman Burgess’ Lake Dallas district office for the next year. “Congratulations to Meghan, Bryant and Wendy for their artistic achievements and thank you to all the students that participated in this year’s competition,” said Burgess. Since the competition was first launched in 1982, more than 5,000 local contests have been conducted that have involved more than 650,000 high school students across the country.
04.26.2016	Aubrey, TX — This weekend Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, hosted his 8th Annual Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair at Aubrey High School in Aubrey, Texas. Over 500 North Texas residents joined emergency responders from the Aubrey ISD Police Department, the City of Aubrey Fire Department, the Town of Providence Village and Denton County Emergency Services to learn from the experts about putting plans in place to keep themselves and their families safe. Disasters, whether natural or man-made, can occur anytime or anywhere. The North Texas region is no stranger to the unpredictability of dangerous weather or emergency situations. WBAP Chief Meteorologist Brad Barton and National Weather Service meteorologist Mark Fox delivered the keynote addresses touching on the tumultuous weather that North Texas has experienced over the last year and underscoring the importance of being prepared for even the most unpredictable emergency situations. “When disaster strikes, we must be ready to act immediately,” Burgess said. “You are the first line of defense for you and your family and it is critical that you have a plan in place. While we can’t plan for every emergency situation, my hope is that this summit provides North Texans the tools to protect and prepare themselves.” Attendees had the opportunity to interact with an array of demonstrations and exhibits including Denco Area 9-1-1, FEMA, Texas Search and Rescue – North Texas Division, City of Lewisville – Office of Emergency Management, among many others. Additionally, the electrical engineering department at the University of North Texas conducted a drone demonstration to display the benefits drones provide in the aftermath of emergency situations. ###
04.07.2016	Sherman, TX — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, joined fellow Texan Congressman John Ratcliffe (TX-04), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies for a field hearing, in Sherman, Texas, entitled “Cyber Preparedness and Response at the Local Level.” The field hearing sought to help provide a better understanding of how state and local officials prepare for, respond to and investigate cyber incidents. Additionally, the hearing provided an opportunity to learn about different cyber training opportunities for State and local officials to bolster cyber preparedness and response. The House Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, under the chairmanship of Congressman Burgess, has focused extensively on data breach and the notification process that should be required to inform consumers when there has been a data breach. “While Chairman Ratcliffe’s subcommittee deals with the ‘.gov side’ of the world, my subcommittee deals with the ‘.com side’ of the world. Ultimately, data security is national security,” said Burgess during the hearing. “This hearing comes at an ideal time as all Americans prepare to file their taxes next week and many will face the very real hurdle when they discover that their accounts that have been diverted in the past due to a breach of personal data.” Last year, the Data Security and Breach Notification Act of 2015 (H.R. 1770) was passed through Congressman Burgess’ subcommittee. H.R. 1770 would establish a national standard for procedures used to notify consumers when there has been a breach of their personal data. Currently, 47 states have a security notification standard but there remains no national standard. H.R. 1770 passed full committee and is awaiting action on the House floor. ###
04.06.2016	Lewisville, TX – Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. hosted a press conference with the Fort Worth U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to share updates on the continued progress of the repairs to the slide on the dam at Lake Lewisville. Colonel Calvin C. Hudson, Commander of the Fort Worth District USACE shared that the Corps has the full funding needed to complete the critical repairs to the slide on the dam at Lake Lewisville and that the completion of the Dam Safety Modification Study has been expedited to 2018. The study will identify long-term improvements to minimize the potential for downstream flooding due to dam failure. Following historic rainfall totals in May and June of 2015, Lake Lewisville and the surrounding areas experienced damaging floods that resulted in the formation of a slide on the Lewisville Dam. While maintaining the proper safety and operations of Lake Lewisville, which covers 29,000 acres of land in North Texas, has always been a top priority of Congressman Burgess it became clear that the need for expeditious repairs and funding was immediate. Rep. Burgess has worked closely with the USACE and the appropriations committees in Congress to ensure the fiscal year 2016 USACE work plan included an additional $4,653,000 for the Lake Lewisville Dam. For fiscal year 2016, the Corps has a total of $8,688,000 in the Operations and Maintenance account for the dam at Lake Lewisville. “Today we were able to share a good news story. The problem identified at Lake Lewisville is being addressed, in large part to the continued efforts from all levels of government across both parties and the dedication of the Ft. Worth Corps. Lake Lewisville has been a part of my life for its entire lifespan and thus a top priority of mine during my time in Congress,” said Burgess. “While we have addressed the short term, immediate need at the dam, I look forward to a continued, regular dialogue with the Corps to ensure the necessary resources for repairs as well as the Dam Safety Modification Study are made available.” The press conference was followed by a tour of the dam at Lake Lewisville led by the Fort Worth U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to view repair progress. Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32), Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), State Representative Tan Parker (District 63), and Judge Mary Horn were also present at the press conference. ###
03.22.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement in response to the terror attacks in Brussels. “Today, I extend my deepest condolences and prayers to the victims and families impacted by the senseless and tragic terror attacks committed against the people of Belgium. These horrific acts know no race, gender or nationality. “We must remain vigilant in the protection of Americans here at home by taking every necessary precaution to quell the fears of the American people. We must also stand with our allies across the world to unite against these abhorrent acts of terror in order to end them permanently. “Terrorists are leveraging Europe’s open borders and the ease at which people can move from country to country undetected. As The Washington Post’s David Ignatius has pointed out, ‘What they’ve [Europe] realized is that they don’t have a firm, hard external border so that they can see who is coming into the entire [Shengen] group and then do monitoring.’ “Today, rather than become incapacitated by these acts of aggression, we join our sisters and brothers in Europe to condemn these offensive crimes and recommit ourselves to the defense of freedom and humanity.” ###
03.21.2016	The 2016 North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum, jointly hosted by Senator John Cornyn and Senator Ted Cruz, as well as Congressman Sam Johnson, Congressman John Ratcliffe, Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman Joe Barton, Congresswoman Kay Granger, Congressman Kenny Marchant, Congressman Roger Williams, Congressman Michael Burgess, Congressman John Carter, Congressman Pete Sessions and Congressman Marc Veasey, will be held Saturday morning, April 2nd. This informational forum will provide interested students in grades 8-12 the opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission and the selection process. North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum Date: Saturday, April 2, 2016 Time: 8:00 AM - 12:00 Noon; Registration opens at 7:30 AM Note: This is a “come & stay” event! Place: Sam Houston High School 2000 Sam Houston Drive Arlington, Texas 76014 In addition to staff from congressional offices, representatives from all five academies (U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy) and current academy cadets and midshipmen will be on hand to answer questions. Also present will be representatives from Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine Corps ROTC, as well as the Department of Defense Medical Exam Review Board (DoDMERB). North Texas students, parents and educators will be able to hear from and meet with these representatives on a one-to-one basis to become informed about the excellent possibilities associated with attending these premier educational institutions and the sorts of careers they generate. The Forum is free and open to the public; no pre-registration is required. It will be held from 8:00 AM – 12:00 NOON; registration opens at 7:30 AM. For more information, please contact: Robin Vaughan, Deputy District Director Office of Congressman Michael Burgess Phone: 940-497-5031 Email: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov ###
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement on the votes in the House of Representatives to condemn the war crimes of both ISIL and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad through H. Con. Res. 75 and H. Con. Res. 121. “The war crimes being committed by the Islamic State in the Levant and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad are unimaginable and reprehensible. I am appalled that the Obama Administration has fallen silent on these actions. By remaining removed, the Administration is signaling America’s astonishing indifference to the mass killing and forced imprisonment of thousands of innocent people. The House of Representatives will continue putting pressure on the Administration to deem these actions just what they are—genocide and offensive crimes against humanity.” Note: This week, the Obama administration is likely to miss a congressionally-mandated March 17 deadline that requires a final decision on whether ISIL is perpetrating genocide. Additionally, the administration has a duty to determine whether or not the Assad regime is guilty of war crimes.
03.04.2016	Lewisville, TX— Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement following the announcement from the Bureau of Land Management to defer the sale of a parcel of land located under Lake Lewisville as part of a planned mineral rights auction in New Mexico. “Following a continued and comprehensive dialogue between my office, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the Fort Worth U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), BLM has announced that it will defer the sale of a parcel of land located under Lake Lewisville as part of the April 20 mineral rights auction. “On February 16, 2016, I sent a letter to the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, Mr. Neil Kornze, requesting a delay in the sale of mineral rights until further evaluation can prove beyond a doubt that drilling under Lake Lewisville will pose no safety issues to the dam or our source of drinking water. “A decision with such potential significant repercussions, as this sale has, deserves substantially more time for adequate evaluation and for the community that will be effected to weigh in. The safety and health of the residents of the 26th district should be the top priority for any agency or organization looking to operate within our district. “I remain committed to continuing to work with the Bureau of Land Management and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.” Read the announcement from BLM here. ###
02.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) and Congressman Michael Burgess M.D. (R-TX), joined by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL), introduced the Living Donor Protection Act of 2016, to protect the rights of living organ donors. The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) does not specify that living organ donors can take unpaid leave to recover from their donation and does not guarantee that donors will have a job waiting for them after surgery. Further, according to a 2007 study in the American Journal of Transplantation, as many as 11 percent of living organ donors experience difficulty securing or paying for insurance after their procedures because of discriminatory practices. The Living Donor Protection Act would protect living organ donors and promote organ donation in three easy, low-cost ways: 1) Prohibits life, disability, and long term care insurance companies from denying or limiting coverage and from charging higher premiums for living organ donors; 2) Clarifies that living organ donors may use FMLA time to recover from the surgeries and procedures involved in their donation; and 3) Directs HHS to update their materials on live organ donation to reflect these new protections and encourage more individuals to consider donating an organ Representative Nadler, Representative Burgess, Senator Gillibrand, and Senator Kirk issued the following joint statement announcing the introduction of the Living Donor Protection Act: “Every year, thousands of Americans donate kidneys, livers, and other organs to save the lives of family members, friends, and even complete strangers struggling with life-threatening illnesses. An organ donor’s decision to undergo these invasive procedures not only saves lives, it saves money. Organ donation cuts health care costs as much as two-thirds, saving Medicare millions of dollars every year. Yet, despite taking this heroic step to save a life, living organ donors many times face discrimination when they try to take medical leave or buy insurance. The Living Donor Protection Act, which has bipartisan support in both the House and Senate, would fix that injustice. Rather than putting roadblocks in the way of living organ donation, Congress should encourage more individuals to become living donors and protect the rights of those donors to receive the insurance and medical leave they need.” The bill has support from numerous groups that advocate on behalf of organ transplantation, including endorsements by the American Society of Transplant Surgeons, the American Society of Transplantation, the National Kidney Foundation, and the American Society of Nephrology.
02.23.2016	Washington, D.C.-- Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s vague, loosely constructed plan to close the Guantanamo Bay facility: “At a time when the top concern of the American people is national security and safety at home, I am baffled as to why this President would make another attempt at convincing the American people and Congress that we should be welcoming the most dangerous of U.S. enemies into our country. This is an argument that he has already lost. His plan would bypass current law, which bars the transfer of detainees to the U.S.—a law which his own Attorney General publically acknowledged was clear late last year. “For the last seven years, Congress has explicitly rejected the President’s irresponsible path to closing the Guantanamo Bay detainment facility. “To refer to this submission as a plan is astonishing for the hubris implored. Barack Obama submitted a messaging document. And the only message that has been conveyed is that, once again, the Obama Administration is more than willing to play Russian Roulette with our national security.”
02.22.2016	Washington, D.C.-- Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the below statement following his visits to the Denton Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) and the Dallas VA Medical Center during National Salute to Veterans week. “I was humbled by the opportunity to visit with some of our local veterans at VA North Texas Health Care System facilities in both Denton and Dallas during National Salute to Veterans Week. These men and women have made unimaginable sacrifices to defend the freedoms that we exercise every day of our lives. We are a nation in their debt. As we welcome home new generations of veterans, we must ensure that we have all of the programs in place to take care of future veterans and their families.” View pictures from the visits here.
02.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement on the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: "It is with a heavy heart that I extend my sincere condolences on the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. His unparalleled 30 years of service were integral in advancing commonsense policy that helped shape our country and the conservative cause. Justice Scalia was an invaluable member of the Supreme Court bench whose respect and deference for the constitutional authority of the legislative branch was a sentiment found woven throughout his opinions over his entire career. My thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time."
02.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the below statement following the Senate HELP Committee’s hearing to advance companion legislation to the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6). “While there has been widespread adoption of electronic health records, this technology has failed to meaningfully improve care for providers and patients—leaving our nation’s healthcare system fragmented. “We will not achieve the goals of the 21st Century Cures Act, precision medicine, or payment reform if health data remains immobile and unwieldy. For these reasons, my top priority is policy that will facilitate a nationwide interoperable health information system. “I am encouraged by the concrete step forward that the Senate HELP Committee has taken with respect to its legislation to improve health information technology. I appreciate the committee’s continued prioritization of achieving an interoperable health system as members work to develop their companion legislation to the House’s 21st Century Cures Act. I remain confident that the Senate will achieve its companion innovation bill to the 21st Century Cures Act.” The “Improving Health Information Technology Act” is the Senate companion bill to the health information technology language found in the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6). The House of Representatives passed the 21st Century Cures Act with overwhelming bipartisan support in July 2015.
02.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, today introduced legislation that would foster free market-driven innovation and technological advances. The Energy Efficiency Free Market Act of 2016 (H.R. 4504) would strike all government-mandated energy efficiency standards currently required on a variety of consumer products found in millions of American homes. “The federal government must trust the American people to make the right decisions when it comes to the products they buy. When the government sets the efficiency standard for a product, that often becomes the ceiling. I have long been a firm believer in energy efficiency; however, when the market drives the standard, there’s no limit to how fast and how aggressive manufacturers will be when consumers demand more efficient and better made products,” said Burgess. “Government standards have proven to be unworkable. The Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution was meant as a limitation on federal power. It was never intended to allow the federal government to micromanage everyday consumer products that do not pose a risk to human health or safety.” To read more about this legislation, click here.
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX 26) announced that twenty-six students from the 26th District of Texas have been selected as Class of 2020 nominees to our nation’s service academies. These outstanding young men and women were nominated to attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. “I was very impressed by the high caliber of candidates that applied to my office,” said Dr. Burgess. “The selection process was very competitive, and each of these students has a strong record of academic performance and leadership in school activities, sports, community and volunteer service. I proudly nominated them for admission to our nation’s service academies. If selected to attend their respective academies, I know each of these students will perform admirably, and serve honorably as officers in our country’s military services.” Nominees were selected after a rigorous application process culminating in a personal interview with Dr. Burgess’ Academy Advisory Board. A congressional nomination does not guarantee admission to one of the service academies as the academies’ respective admissions boards decide who is offered appointment, and ultimately admitted. If appointed, the nominees will enter this summer. The following candidates were nominated to the service academies. Several individuals have been nominated to multiple academies; if they receive appointment offers from more than one academy, the student will have to choose one to attend. Alex Albright (Lewisville ISD - Marcus High School, Flower Mound) has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Zach Arcos-Honeycutt (Frisco ISD - Wakeland High School and Greystone Preparatory School) has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Danesh Bam (Lewisville ISD - Flower Mound High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Quinn Bauer (Lewisville ISD - Lewisville High School and Northwestern Preparatory School) has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Benjamin Blessing (Frisco ISD - Wakeland High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Nicholas Blessing (Frisco ISD - Wakeland High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Grant Carter (Sanger ISD - Sanger High School and North Central Texas College) has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Mitchell Cason (Lewisville ISD - Marcus High School, Flower Mound) has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. John Cox (Frisco ISD - Frisco High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Christopher Dao (Carroll ISD - Carroll High School, Southlake) has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy. Honor Fusselman (Northwest ISD-Byron Nelson High School, Trophy Club and Texas A&M University) has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy. Connor Green (Lewisville ISD - Flower Mound High School and New Mexico Military Institute) has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Nicholas Haslam (Northwest ISD-Byron Nelson High School, Trophy Club) has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Cody Jones (Lewisville ISD - Flower Mound High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy. Brian Kidd (Lewisville ISD - Flower Mound High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Samuel Kittlitz (Lewisville ISD - Lewisville High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Anthony Laico (Lewisville ISD - Flower Mound High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Charles McCartney (Westlake Academy) has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Mark Mengel (Keller ISD – Keller High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Audra Milbitz (North Central Texas College) has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Gemma Nguyen (Frisco ISD - Wakeland High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Samuel Rice (Lewisville ISD - Flower Mound High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy. Trey Roach (Covenant Christian Academy, Colleyville) has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. John Stroup (Frisco ISD - Frisco High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Kellin Tompkins (Frisco ISD - Wakeland High School and Texas A&M University) has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Kayla Wofford (Lewisville ISD - Lewisville High School) has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Additional information regarding the academy nomination and application process may be obtained on Burgess’ website at http://burgess.house.gov or by contacting Robin Vaughan, Deputy District Director, in the Lake Dallas district office at 940-497-5031 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov.
02.05.2016	McAllen, Texas –Representative Lamar Smith (R-Texas) today led members of the Congressional Border Security Caucus on a tour of Rio Grande Valley sector of the U.S.- Mexico border. Members released the following statements: Congressman Lamar Smith (R-Texas): “A country that has lost control of its border has lost control of its future. Despite the story the Obama administration is telling, illegal border crossings remain abnormally high. The Department of Homeland Security’s latest numbers show an increase of 30 percent over the last year’s crossings. “Today we had the opportunity to see firsthand the challenges our border patrol agents and Texas Department of Public Safety officers face as they deal with the continuing surge of illegal immigrants on our Southern border. Their jobs have been made harder by this administration’s policies that have undermined our immigration laws and continue to encourage illegal immigrants. “My colleagues and I with the Congressional Border Security Caucus have taken a strong stand- along with 26 states led by Texas – against the president’s executive amnesty orders. This year, the Supreme Court will hear that case. We will continue to stand with the American people. We will continue working to stop the surge of illegal immigrants.” Congressman Diane Black (R-Tennessee): “We’ve known all along that our border was not secure and that the Obama Administration’s immigration policies were failing to uphold the rule of law. Now, I have seen the impact of that with my own eyes. Tennessee may not be a border state, but President Obama’s unwillingness to combat the crisis of illegal immigration is felt throughout the country, including in states like my own. This site visit with my Border Security Caucus colleagues has reaffirmed my belief that any future immigration reform must take place in a step-by-step process beginning with true enforcement of our existing laws and, at long last, real border security.” Congressman Michael Burgess (R-Texas): “The flood of illegal immigrants on the Southern border has proven to be a mounting American crisis, greatly impacting Texas families. As Texans know all too well, the haphazard opening of our borders has caused total chaos with the influx of unaccompanied minors and strained our local communities in a truly troubling way. Today’s visit to the border has only reaffirmed my commitment to protecting and strengthening our borders, prioritizing the safety of American citizens above all. I join my fellow Republicans in calling on President Obama to halt his careless immigration policy before we reach a dangerous point of which we cannot return.” Congressman Blake Farenthold (R-Texas): “We must take the situation at the border very seriously and the current administration is not doing that. To be here and see firsthand, to talk to the agents face-to-face, it is clear the administration is not giving agents the tools they need to do their job effectively and safely. The Justice department isn't prosecuting people they should be prosecuting. Border security should be a top priority for this president, but is not. The president is not allowing our Border Patrol agents to do their job and that is putting every American at risk.” Congressman Sam Johnson (R-Texas): "While this certainly wasn't my first trip to Texas' southern border, the new surge of illegal aliens over the past few months is why I made this trip today. It's no secret that Obama's lawless executive amnesty is having devastating impacts not only on Texas border cities but across the country. That's why I've been hard at work to stop illegal immigration and Obama’s amnesty. As part of that effort I've introduced several pieces of legislation such as my bill - the No Amnesty Tax Refunds for Illegals Act - that was just signed into law. I and my fellow Border Caucus colleagues most sacred duty is to protect our homeland and every citizen in it. I spent 29 years as a fighter pilot and seven as a POW doing just that. And the House Border Caucus will continue to fight to keep America safe."
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, today issued the following statement on the House of Representatives’ vote to override the President’s veto of the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 that would halt funding to Planned Parenthood and repeal substantial portions of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “This legislation is a materialization of the demands of the American people. Americans will no longer acquiesce while this Administration perpetuates the downward spiral into which the ACA set our nation’s health care system. The empty promises the ACA have left us with a health care system that has compromised accessibility, quality of care, and affordability. “Today the House Republicans took a stand against President Obama, who continues to obstruct all efforts to reform the failed policies of the ACA. “The omnibus spending package, passed late last year, excluded any appropriations of Planned Parenthood funding. The passage of this bill today was our opportunity to suspend both mandatory and discretionary funding to Planned Parenthood while the organization’s legal and ethical standards remain under investigation. As your representative in Congress, I remain dedicated to meaningful reforms that drive high quality health care options and access to care.”
01.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement ahead of President Obama’s delivery of his final State of the Union address this evening. “While I expect President Obama to extol his so-called legacy during his final State of the Union address, after having sat through seven of these with this president I don’t expect him to fill the room with anything other than broken promises and empty words. “As House Republicans work towards actionable change for the betterment of America—including passing legislation to drive higher quality health care options and access to care, while shrinking the nation’s deficit—the fact that this president can only advance his agenda through executive actions shows how isolated his stances have become and how increasingly frustrated Americans are becoming with his leadership approach.”
01.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today released his 2015 Year-End Annual Report, a comprehensive document showcasing his legislative accomplishments, media presence, constituent services and correspondence with constituents in the 26th District of Texas. Burgess noted that the annual year-end report is part of his commitment to transparency with his constituents and a means of reflecting on and quantifying every function of both his Washington, D.C. and Lake Dallas district offices, as well as his legislative accomplishments. “2015 proved to be a productive and prolific year,” said Burgess. “My office was heavily involved in advancing legislation focused on protecting consumers’ personal information from data breaches, increasing patients’ access to quality health care, and demanding the accountability for the actions of Administration officials. This report acts as a vehicle to track my progress and pinpoint areas for improvement as we look ahead to the next legislative year.” Burgess also highlighted a piece of legislation he authored that became law, H.R. 2, the “SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2015,” which assertively repealed the flawed Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula. “With bipartisan strength, in 2015, we passed the most meaningful entitlement reform in years with a product that’s a huge victory for seniors, providers, taxpayers, and the integrity of the entire Medicare system.” The report also includes a list of statistics of Burgess’ work in 2015, including: Authored and introduced 29 pieces of legislation Cosponsored 163 pieces of legislation Opened 547 cases on behalf of constituents Received and responded to more than 67,000 pieces of constituent correspondence Held or attended more than 500 events Conducted over 100 television and radio interviews Click here to view the 2015 report. Click here to view past reports.
01.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, issued the following statement on the House of Representatives’ passage of the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 to halt funding to Planned Parenthood and repeal substantial portions of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “Today the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate sent a bill to the President’s desk that would repeal the vast majority of Affordable Care Act—this marks the first time legislation dismantling the ACA will have come before the President since it was signed into law. H.R. 3726, would also establish a moratorium on federal funding to Planned Parenthood while that organization’s compliance with legal and ethical standards is under investigation. “We, in Congress, have done what the American people have demanded—we have acted on our word and executed on our promises to eliminate the most oppressive, harmful components of the ACA. The failed promises of the ACA have cost the American taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars in failed experiments on the nation’s healthcare system. Furthermore, this bill would reduce the national deficit by $516 billion over the next decade—an opportunity that should not be summarily dismissed at a time when our nation is crippled by debt. “As a former practicing OB-GYN for over 30 years, I know from firsthand experience that Americans do not want Washington dictating their healthcare decisions and physicians should not be told what is best for their patients. The American people deserve a President that will work with Congress to drive higher quality health care options and access to care—this law has clearly failed to do so.”
01.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the President’s announcement to bypass Congress and the legislative process. “Article I and Article II of the U.S. Constitution, the model for which our government exists, vests all legislative powers in Congress and consigns the power of legislative execution to the President—a simple civics lesson that Barack Obama chooses to disregard repetitively. “The Executive Branch has made a habit of bypassing the legislative process, acting far beyond its delineated authorities. The President continues to promote his big government agenda—violating Congress’ constitutional oversight of checks and balances. “President Obama must withdraw and allow the Legislative Branch to do the job that the American people elected it to do. “Americans deserve a leader who does not regard the Constitution as a suggestion for the model on which our government should exist—but instead treats it in its intended purpose, as the law of the land.” Read the letter I cosigned to President Obama in December 2015 in response to reports of his unilateral action on gun control here.
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the passage of the FY 2016 Omnibus funding legislation by the House of Representatives: “It is the constitutional responsibility of Congress to protect the Americans who are selflessly serving and who have heroically served our country. My vote was founded in my strong sense of duty to protect our national security and ensure that our troops overseas, who put their lives on the line every day, continue to have the resources required to carry out their missions around the world and here at home. Especially at a time when radical extremists are waging war on the United States of America and her people, the passage of this funding bill is critical to maintaining and strengthening our armed forces.”
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today issued the following statement in response to concerns of the structural soundness of the Lewisville Dam located in the 26th District of Texas: “My staff and I remain in regular contact with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Fort Worth District regarding the proper functionality of the Lewisville Dam and the timeline for upcoming construction projects. Just this week, I toured the dam to view the slide, and despite its physical appearance, the engineers have assured me that the core of the dam is not in eminent danger of failure and a contract has been put in place to resolve the problem. “This past June, when the lake reached the pool of record following torrential rainfall, the dam performed as designed, further laying testament to its structural integrity. “The Lewisville Dam is over 60 years old and as such with structures of this nature and age, constant supervision and maintenance are required. “For as long as I have been in office, the safety and funding of the Lewisville Dam has been a top priority of mine. Every year that I have represented the 26th District of Texas, the Lewisville Dam maintenance project has received the requested level of funding—an average of $3.2 million appropriated each year with an increase to $4.2 million for fiscal year 2015. “As always, I continue to have full confidence in the USACE’s emergency preparedness plans and their dedication to taking whatever action necessary to keep North Texans safe.”
12.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act (S. 1177) in the House of Representatives. “Control of education should be purview of elected state and local school boards and not the federal government. Students are best served when the teachers and school administrators, who know them best, are not held to a one-size-fits-all accountability system. “As the Obama Administration continues to force its intrusive, big-government regulations and standards on the American people, the simple fact is that Washington agencies have no business dictating the model for a child’s education. “This legislation signifies an overdue overhaul of the education system, placing control back in to the hands of the states, where it belongs—and demonstrating the largest rollback of federal power in over 25 years. “I am confident that this is the first step to reforming a broken education system and will empower our teachers and local school systems with the tools to more successfully shape future generations.”
11.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the Paris attacks and the admission of Syrian refugees into the United States: “I extend my sincerest condolences and prayers to all the victims and families impacted by last week’s horrific attacks in Paris. Regrettably, the tragedy in Paris has illustrated for the rest of the world what happens when would-be terrorists believe they can enter a country undetected. “While President Obama is attempting a fragmented strategy to combat ISIS, the rest of the world is coming together to eliminate this threat. This is not the time to let our guard down. “Thus, I vehemently oppose the admission of Syrian refugees into the United States without a more substantial vetting process. I stand firmly behind Texas Governor Abbott and his decision that the state of Texas will refuse any incoming Syrian refugees. Following the Paris attacks, it is clear that the U.S. lacks a comprehensive procedure to perform adequate and thorough background checks on refugees—opening our borders and citizens up to real danger. “There is no single entity in charge of coordinating the refugee admittance process—the process for refugee applicants is split between at least five different federal agencies. This lack of accountability only increases vulnerability. We must do all we can to ensure the safety of American citizens.”
11.11.2015	Pictured left to right: Andre “Frenchy” Rheault, Forrest Beadle, Jack Bailey, Congressman Michael Burgess, Doug Brown, Gary Steele Highland Village, TX – This week, U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville) recognized the five veterans who received this year’s 26th District Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC was created in 2005 to honor the distinguished living veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. Nominations were received from the community, veterans’ organizations and civic groups. This year’s commendations were presented at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association and the City of Highland Village. The five recipients of this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation are: Jack Bailey - Flower Mound (Major - US Army/Commander - U.S. Navy) Forrest Beadle - Denton (Captain - U.S. Army) Doug Brown - Flower Mound (Chief Warrant Officer - U.S. Army) Andre “Frenchy” Rheault - Denton (Master Sergeant - U.S. Air Force) Gary Steele - Denton Senior Master Sergeant - U.S. Air Force “Five extraordinary individuals were selected to receive the 2015 Congressional Veteran Commendation,” said Rep. Burgess. “They served in the Armed Forces of the United States with distinction and continued their dedication to the nation by striving tirelessly on behalf of their fellow veterans and serving the people in their communities.” “While we have singled out these veterans for recognition, I want to extend my deepest appreciation to all veterans for your service to the United States of America,” Rep. Burgess remarked to the approximate 300 luncheon attendees. Congressman Burgess also provided each Vietnam War veteran in attendance with a special 50th anniversary commemorative lapel pin. Rep. Burgess read the embossed message on the reverse of the pin to the audience, “A Grateful Nation Thanks and Honors You.” “On behalf of the citizens of the 26th District we do indeed express our gratitude to you for your service and extend a welcome home.”
11.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the retirement of Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-PA): “I am grateful to Chairman Pitts for his dedicated service and his role as a leader in healthcare policy. During his chairmanship, we saw some of the greatest healthcare reforms. Joe led the subcommittee to pass more bipartisan bills into law than any other committee in the last two sessions of Congress, and he was a strong ally in repealing and replacing the SGR, which put medical professionals back in charge of measuring quality care and addressed one of the largest drivers of our nation’s debt. There is still much work ahead of us in the next year and I look forward to working with Chairman Pitts to see it through. I don’t doubt that he leaves big shoes to fill. I wish him and his wife the absolute best on the next chapter.”
11.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the President’s rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline: “This news is not surprising. If President Obama wanted to approve it he had multiple opportunities to do so. This is all part of his political games. His excuses for rejecting this pro-job and pro-growth project are unsupported. The State Department, under both Secretaries Clinton and Kerry, has conducted five reviews, which show the Keystone XL pipeline is in the best interest for our economy, the environment, and national security. I do think this outcome is unfortunate, because a portion of the pipeline has already been built through Texas. However—in less than a year, we will have elected a new president and we must hope that it is someone that isn’t as politically motivated and strategically short sighted as our current president.” ###
11.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the selection of fellow Texan Kevin Brady as the Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee: “In this new era of leadership, I can think of no better candidate than Kevin to advance a pro-conservative and pro-growth agenda in the House of Representatives as Ways and Means Committee Chairman. He has actively communicated his commitment to advancing tax reform, replacing ObamaCare and expanding global trade. Kevin is a true conservative and fiscal leader, exemplifying everything that it means to be part of the Texas delegation, the largest Republican delegation in the House of Representatives.”
11.02.2015	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the unjustified arrest of Iranian-American Siamak Namazi by the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps: “The unjust arrest and detainment of Iranian-American Siamak Namazi is the latest demonstration of Iran’s contempt for America. This follows quickly on the heels of the country’s joint military operations with Russia in Syria to sustain President Bashar al-Assad’s regime of corruption. Actions such as these are clear indicators that the Iranian regime has no intentions of adhering in good faith to the terms of President Obama’s nuclear agreement. “Just weeks ago President Obama bypassed Congress negotiating a bad deal with Iran that lifts billions of dollars’ worth of sanctions and falls silent on the fate of the now five Americans that are being held unjustly in Iran. “As Iran’s actions of contempt continue to escalate, I fear what must happen for the Administration and Secretary Kerry to reevaluate the gift that they provided to an untrustworthy Iran.”
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the introduction of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. “I oppose the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 and the process by which House and Senate leadership negotiated the American people’s business. This should have included the entire Republican conference and should not have occurred solely behind closed doors. I cannot support a budget deal that turns off the sequester and its mandatory spending cuts—critical for budget reform—while also suspending the debt limit for two years. This provides President Obama with a blank checkbook to indiscriminately rack up more debt that will have to be dealt with long after he vacates the White House. Unlike the spending that goes into effect immediately, the projected $75.6 billion in deficit reductions will not be felt for years to come, if ever. With our Nation’s deficit and debt on a trajectory to become increasingly more cripplingly and unsustainable, a backroom deal like this is simply unacceptable.”
10.01.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade today introduced bipartisan legislation H.R. 3660 with Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) that would direct the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to analyze scientific medical data to provide information on the savings of preventive health initiatives beyond the traditional 10-year scoring window. The bill, known as the Preventive Health Savings Act of 2015, aims to modernize the way CBO scores preventive health legislation, allowing for a longer “scoring” window in which to assess the long-term health savings that are possible from preventive health initiatives. “Minimizing the cost of a significant and complex problem such as chronic disease is not an easy or quick endeavor,” said Rep. Burgess. “Allowing the CBO to analyze scientific data, and having the ability to provide projects past the ten year scoring window will provide a more accurate projection for programs with children and other populations or diseases with longer development periods. This legislation is a responsible approach and will ensure that the government calculates the savings of preventative health.” “Preventive care is essential to keep Americans healthy and drive down unnecessary spending,” said Rep. DeGette. “Our laws prevent health care spending projections from taking into account long-term savings. It’s time we allow the CBO to make decisions based on science and informed by long term cost projections. I look forward to continuing this bipartisan work that will save money and keep Americans healthy.” “To address a chronic disease escalation that threatens to affect our society and economy for the next several decades, we need long-term thinking that transcends the way Congress traditionally thinks about policy and budgets. Innovations that can prevent illness and improve population health for generations shouldn’t be stymied by an arbitrary 10-year budget window. The Preventive Health Savings Act will grant lawmakers the flexibility to combat cancer, heart disease, diabetes and other devastating conditions,” said Mary R. Grealy, President of the Healthcare Leadership Council. This legislation is supported by: Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, Alliance for Aging Research, Allscripts, Alzheimer’s Association, America’s Essential Hospitals, America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation (AACVPR), American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE), American Association of Diabetes Educators, American Clinical Laboratory Association, American College of Gastroenterology, American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, American College of Osteopathic Family Physicians, American College of Preventive Medicine, American College of Radiology, American Council on Exercise, American Diabetes Association, American Osteopathic Association, American Podiatric Medical Association, American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery, American Society of Bariatric Physicians, Amgen, Ascension Health, athenahealth, BioReference Laboratories, BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee, Boehringer Ingelheim, Campaign to End Obesity Action Fund, Cancer Support Community, Cardinal Health, Cleveland Clinic, Council for Affordable Health Coverage, Dialysis Patient Citizens, Eisai, Endocrine Society, Healthcare Leadership Council, Healthways, IHRSA: International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association, Indiana University Health, Johnson & Johnson, Marshfield Clinic, McKesson Corporation, Medtronic, MemorialCare Health System, Merck, National Alliance on Mental Illness, National Association of Chain Drug Stores (NACDS), National Association of Pediatric Nurse Practitioners, National Business Coalition on Health, National Business Group on Health, National Retail Federation, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Obesity Action Coalition, Omada Health, Partnership for Prevention, Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease, Pfizer, Population Health Alliance, Premier healthcare alliance, Prescriptions for a Healthy America, Prevent Cancer Foundation, Rite Aid, Sanofi US, SCAN Health Plan, Society for Women’s Health Research, Sports & Fitness Industry Association, Takeda Pharmaceuticals, Texas Health Resources, The Endocrine Society, The Obesity Society, Third Way, VHA Inc., VNAA, VSP Vision Care, Weight Watchers, Women Heart: The National Coalition for Women with Heart Disease, and YMCA of the USA. To download the PDF of the legislation click here.
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, with Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-16) today reintroduced the Gestational Diabetes (GEDI) Act of 2015, a bill aimed at lowering the incidences of gestational diabetes and the development of Type 2 diabetes in women and children. According to the American Diabetes Association (ADA), as many as 9.2 percent of all pregnancies in the United States are affected by gestational diabetes, a condition in which pregnant women who have never had diabetes before experience high blood glucose (sugar) levels and are no longer able to make and use the insulin needed during the pregnancy. This condition can lead to health issues for the unborn child, including macrosomia and breathing problems. In addition, women who are afflicted with gestational diabetes and their children are at elevated risk of developing Type 2 diabetes post-pregnancy. The GEDI Act, which is supported by the ADA and the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) seeks to improve gestational diabetes treatments and outcomes by: - Developing a multi-site gestational diabetes research project with the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to enhance surveillance and public health research on gestational diabetes. - Providing grants to reduce the incidence of gestational diabetes. - Expanding basic, clinical and public health research focused on investigating gestational diabetes and available treatments and therapies. “During my over 30 years as a practicing obstetrician, I witnessed many women suffer from gestational diabetes and later develop Type 2 diabetes. Congress must pay attention to the growing rate of gestational diabetes—an issue that has been ignored for far too long,” said Congressman Burgess. "The fight against diabetes is a bipartisan fight and I look forward to working with Congressman Engel again on this legislation to increase preventative measures aimed at slowing the incidence of gestational diabetes.” “Gestational diabetes is a condition that can carry very serious health consequences for not only unborn children, but their mothers as well,” Congressman Engel said. “We need to be more proactive in detecting, treating, and reducing the number of GEDI cases. However, until we have expanded federal support in those areas, advances in the GEDI field will be difficult to attain.” “I am proud to reintroduce this important, bipartisan bill with Congressman Burgess, and I implore my colleagues to stand with us in the fight against gestational diabetes.” “Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), one of the most common clinical issues facing obstetricians and our patients, can have serious consequences for both mother and baby. ACOG is proud to support the critically important GEDI Act, which would provide crucial funding for both research and community education to help us fight back against this condition. Thank you, Representatives Burgess and Engel, for your commitment to ensuring healthy moms and healthy babies,” said ACOG Executive Vice President Hal C. Lawrence III, MD. The Institute of Medicine recommends all pregnant women be screened for gestational diabetes between weeks 24-28 of a pregnancy. Women who are deemed at risk should also be screened at their first prenatal visit. Although the majority of gestational diabetes cases do not continue postpartum, cases that are left untreated during the pregnancy could increase the risk of Type 2 diabetes in both mother and child.
09.22.2015	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, with colleagues Congressmen Tom Price, M.D. (GA-06) and Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-07), led a bipartisan letter to Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Secretary Burwell in support of the regulatory framework outlined in the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) 2016 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule proposed rule to implement imaging appropriate use criteria (AUC) requirements within Medicare. The letter notes that the signatories, of which include a number of physicians and those with a background in medicine, are “strongly supportive of ensuring that physicians are armed with evidence-based tools to aid in diagnostic decision making.” Further, the letter states that guidelines that are not developed by clinicians, providers or national medical professional societies, “do not rely upon the same rigorous development process and, therefore, are more reflective of consensus of medical opinions rather than rooted in clinical evidence." A full copy of the letter to Secretary Burwell can be found here.
09.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the announcement from the Department of Energy this week to cut funding for the wasteful American Centrifuge Project. “For the past decade, the Department of Energy has failed to do its due-diligence when taking hard-earned tax dollars and wasting them on a project in a way that was careless and profligate. While provided an overly generous array of federal resources, including hundreds of millions of dollars in government assistance to continue working on USEC’s flawed centrifuge technology and tens of thousands of tons of free uranium transferred from the Energy Department, USEC failed to carry out its task and thus failed to produce a level of uranium required to meet national security needs,” said Dr. Burgess, a member of the House Energy & Commerce committee. “I commend the non-partisan work of the GAO in unearthing the corruption woven throughout the wasteful American Centrifuge Project that will bring justice for an industry still hurting, damaged by Department of Energy policies. I look forward to working on the Energy & Commerce Committee to identify a responsible solution that would more astutely utilize taxpayer money to develop innovative technology to enrich uranium fuel.” The GAO reports investigating the practices of USEC’s American Centrifuge Project were commissioned at the request of both Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA). The two reports can be found HERE and HERE.
09.18.2015	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) joined Congressman Lamar Smith (TX-21) and 55 House colleagues today in sending a letter to Senate leadership asking to dispense with the 60-vote threshold that has thus far prevented Senate disapproval of President Obama’s Iran Deal. The full text of Congressman Lamar Smith’s letter can be found here.
09.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, issued the following statement on the ruling of the D.C. District Court in the case United States House of Representatives v. Burwell. “This is not only a great victory for the United States House Committee on Rules which crafted the resolution that resulted in the first of its kind ruling by the D.C. District Court, but also for the constitutional balance of power,” said Rep. Burgess. “The executive branch of the government has overstepped the boundaries of its authority, amassing more and more powers at the expense of the legislative branch. I am appreciative of the actions of the D.C. District Court as I firmly believe that the United States government only operates in the manner that it was intended when no one branch of the government is permitted to constitutionally trespass on the other’s authority.” The United States House of Representatives v. Burwell case centers around the lawsuit filed by the United States House of Representatives against departments and officials within the executive branch asserting that President Barack Obama acted illegally in his implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act by authorizing Treasury payments to healthcare insurers and delaying the law's employer mandate. The federal district judge maintained that the ruling signifies that the courts have the right to hear the case.
09.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today the City of Highland Village named the pavilion in the newly developed Lakeside Community Park in honor of Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), recognizing Dr. Burgess’ instrumental efforts in helping to secure the lakeside property for the community’s newest public park. The property, located at 707 Highland Village Road, was seized by the federal government as part of a case involving racketeering, which previously posed dangerous circumstances in the community. “I have deep roots in Highland Village, as I called this city home for a long time and as a former resident of Highland Village, I share the sense of pride that you all have in this community and the desire to ensure its safety for our children and generations to come,” said Dr. Burgess. “I am honored to be recognized here today and look forward to witnessing this park being put to good use by the residents of this city." The Congressman Michael C. Burgess Pavilion is located in the Lakeside Community Park, which officially opened today with a ribbon cutting ceremony. During the ceremony, Dr. Burgess expressed great appreciation for the newest public asset in the Highland Village community. As a former city resident, the development of this property has been a long time priority of Dr. Burgess, stretching over his time in Congress.
07.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., commended the House of Representatives Wednesday after the passage of H.R. 2196, “the Medicare Independence at Home Medical Practice Demonstration Improvement Act of 2015.” The bill extends the Home Medical Practice Demonstration Program (IAH) – already proven to cut costs while providing valuable benefits to high-need beneficiaries – from 3 to 5 years. “I commend my colleagues for extending this commonsense program for our most vulnerable senior beneficiaries and taxpayers,” Rep. Burgess said. “Under IAH, high-need patients will continue receiving individual care in the comfort of their homes while providers at hospitals, emergency rooms, and nursing homes are able to spend more free time with their patients. IAH is improving the quality of care and its provider groups are generating significant savings. I’m pleased to see that this body recognizes its value.” Created with unanimous support in 2010, IAH provides home-based primary care to high-need Medicare beneficiaries with multiple chronic conditions, avoiding unnecessary hospitalizations, ER visits, and nursing home use. The beneficiaries aided by IAH currently account for the majority of Medicare costs, and are expected to account for increasing costs over the next 10 years. While CBO has scored H.R. 2196 at $0, IAH is generating substantial savings. Practices must generate savings of at least 5% or be excluded from the program. CMS released practice results from year one of the program showing savings of more than $25 million in the first performance year At this point, all 15 original participants are still enrolled in the demonstration, meaning all programs are generating savings of at least 5%. H.R. 2196 is endorsed by the American Osteopathic Association and the Independence at Home Coalition, which includes national medical societies and patient advocacy organizations such as AARP, The American Nurses Association, and The American Academy of Home Care Physicians. ###
07.14.2015	After President Obama publicly released the agreement between Iran, the U.S., and the international community this morning, Congressman Michael C. Burgess released the following statement regarding the deal: “Despite assurances from the Obama administration that these negotiations would end Iran’s nuclear programs and that sanctions would not be lifted until their nation met concrete demands, this deal reflects otherwise,” Rep. Burgess said. “This agreement means billions in sanction relief, and an open door to continue their reckless foreign policy agenda. “Though I am relieved to see negotiations conclude, this product – which paves the path toward a nuclear Iran – is a risk to our national security and global interests.”
07.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., today, praised the passage of the 21st Century Cures Act, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 344-77. Over a year in the making, this package of reforms is aimed at accelerating the discovery, development, and delivery of life-saving treatments and cures to patients. The package incorporates numerous priorities of Congressman Michael C. Burgess’ – including five separately introduced bills and three policy initiatives. The world is in a new era of medical technology. Yet America’s current federal standards make the production of medicine and medical devices increasingly slow. This groundbreaking legislation will finally bring innovation and medicine together by cutting red tape at the FDA, incorporating personalized medicine and investing in the future of science. “The divide between medical innovation and patients has been widening for too long,” Rep. Burgess said. “Today, this body sent a message that saving lives and maintaining our nation’s place as the global leader in patient care is of utmost importance. We are sitting on the edge of treatments and cures once thought impossible. Tomorrow’s doctors will have revolutionary tools at their disposal to alleviate human suffering, and these reforms are critically important so that they aren’t barred from reaching the patients who need them most. “This bill is yet another example of the 114th Congress’ ability to provide fiscally sound, bipartisan, solutions to our nation’s pressing challenges. I am optimistic that the importance of these entitlement reforms won’t be lost on the Senate. The future of medicine, and America’s role in it, relies on their urgency to send this to the president’s desk, where it must become law.” Burgess priorities included in the 21st Century Cures Act: H.R. 292 – Advancing Research for Neurological Diseases H.R. 293 – Supporting continued education on medical innovations H.R. 2414 – Facilitating responsible communication of scientific health information H.R. 2415 – Streamlining FDA data review processes of approved drugs for patient use H.R. 2416 – Promoting FDA integration of real-world evidence to aid in drug approval Sec. 2081 – Urging the sense that “breakthrough” drugs be approved as soon as possible Sec. 3001 – Ensuring widespread interoperability of health information technology Sec. 2082/2083 – Expanding transparency in how patients access drugs before approval In conjunction with Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) ###
07.09.2015	The House of Representatives this week, approved an amendment by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., barring the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from hiring and compensating employees under the Title 42 special pay designation – a category exclusively authorized for the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in. The special provision was intended for unique circumstances, in which HHS would need to incentivize the employment of the health industry’s leading experts, whose salary requirements go beyond the existing GS-pay scale. These salaries are nearly uncapped – often upwards of $200,000 - $300,000 each year. Without approval from the proper authorizing committee – the House Committee on Energy & Commerce – the House Appropriations Committee approved the EPA’s use of the Title 42 special pay mechanism in 2006. Despite originally being granted just a handful of Title 42 slots, that number has now risen to 50. This nearly uncapped and unjustified compensation for these EPA employees has already cost taxpayers tens of millions of dollars. “The EPA’s unbridled exploitation of Title 42 is unconscionable,” Rep. Burgess said. “No agency is ever above the law, and it is up to Congress to rein in those who think otherwise. This amendment’s passage ensures that bureaucrats won’t continue awarding themselves exorbitant raises on the taxpayer dime. It is critically important that American people get the accountability they deserve, and I am hopeful that this provision remains a part of the final FY16 interior appropriations bill.”
07.08.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., has announced the Class of 2019 Service Academy Appointees who reside in the 26th Congressional District, and is pleased to congratulate these distinguished future military leaders. These young men and women will be attending the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY, the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO, and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT. “I am grateful that so many young North Texans have accepted this challenge to serve their country,” Rep. Burgess said. “These young men and women are some of the future leaders of our armed forces and it is my pleasure to have helped them in their journey. I wish them all the best of luck in their future endeavors and know that they will make Texas’ 26th Congressional District proud.” Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are rigorously evaluated by on a variety of criteria including academic performance, leadership qualifications and physical preparedness. Appointments to an academy must be preceded by a nomination from a Member of Congress, Academy Superintendent, the Vice President or a military connected nomination. The exception is to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, where a nomination is not required for consideration, but appointments are based upon a competitive nationwide admissions process. In Texas’ 26th District, applicants also undergo a board review lead by former Air Force Academy Superintendent and Lieutenant General (USAF Ret.) Charles Hamm. Other board members include active duty Armed Forces, former service academy graduates, community leaders, and administrators from local higher education institutions. Those 26th Congressional District students entering the service academies are as follows: U.S. Military Academy (Army) - West Point, NY George Kratz (Frisco) Johnathon Muraski (Keller) Dowon Park (Fort Worth) Victoria Reyer (Highland Village) Seth Sowalskie (Frisco) U.S. Naval Academy - Annapolis, MD Daniel Barrett (Flower Mound) Colin Duggan (Keller) Bryan Hammond (The Colony) Tony Powers, Jr. (Frisco) U.S. Merchant Marine Academy - Kings Point, NY Blake Bunce (Trophy Club) Michael Tanttari (Krum) Elias Yu (Flower Mound) U.S. Air Force Academy - Colorado Springs, CO Micah Capra (Argyle) Austin Cutting (Keller) Cade Erwin (Highland Village) Gabriel Martinez Quinones (Watauga) Ethan Nichols (Keller) Molly Olmos (Keller) Elizabeth Pennington (Roanoke) Zach Raines (North Richland Hills) Gabrielle Rupard (Flower Mound) Robert Simpson (Denton) Colton Stowe (The Colony) Mary Vedra (Frisco) U.S. Coast Guard Academy - New London, CT Cole Austin (Flower Mound)
06.25.2015	Burgess: King v Burwell decision exceeds rule of law Washington, DC– After the Supreme Court ruling today, upholding that the Internal Revenue Service may extend subsidies to coverage purchased on the federal fallback exchanges under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Congressman Burgess made the following remarks: “As I continue to focus on the details of this decision, I am deeply disappointed that the Supreme Court did not stop this statute from being used beyond its constitutional boundaries,” Rep. Burgess said. “I still believe that the president broke the law – plain and simple. But regardless, President Obama’s health care law is still hurting millions of families and patients. I remain fully committed to preventing its further disruption in the health market, creating more freedom for states and patients to avoid federal health mandates, and replacing its most egregious intrusions into the doctor-patient relationship. ###
06.16.2015	ADVISORY 6/16/2015 Contact: Cameron Harley (202) 225-7772 Congressman Burgess announces town hall meeting for Monday, June 22 Next Monday, June 22, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., will hold a town hall meeting in the Lone Star High School Auditorium. Town hall meetings give residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the opportunity to learn more about health care reform, taxes, spending, energy, or any other top issues they wish to discuss. Frisco/Little Elm Town Hall Meeting When: Monday, June 22 at 7:00 PM CT Where: Lone Star High School Auditorium 2606 Panther Creek Pkwy., Frisco, TX 75033 Media Contact – Cameron.Harley@mail.house.gov Persons requiring special accommodations should contact Robin Vaughan at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled meeting at (940) 497-5031 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov ###
06.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 6/9/2015 Contact: Cameron Harley (202) 225-7772 Burgess opens nominations for 2015 Congressional Veteran Commendation Lake Dallas, TX – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., today proudly opened Texas’ 26th Congressional District’s annual Veteran Commendation. In conjunction with the Veterans History Project, the Congressional Veteran Commendation honors local veterans who have not only served the United States honorably in their military careers, but have subsequently demonstrated dedication to their communities. “The Congressional Veteran Commendation honors North Texans whose passion to serve didn’t stop after their dedication to our country while in uniform,” Rep. Burgess said. “All veterans deserve our deepest respect, but those who continue to serve their community by becoming a voice for other servicemen and women, charity work, or serving religious or civic organizations deserve further recognition. If there’s one of my constituents that fits this criteria, I strongly encourage their friends and family to nominate them.” To nominate a veteran for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation, please fill out the nomination form, found on Congressman Burgess’ website at http://burgess.house.gov. The deadline for submitting nominations is September 14, 2015. The completed nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, should be submitted to Congressman Burgess’ Lake Dallas office. Individuals selected for the 2015 Congressional Veteran Commendation will be recognized and honored at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association. To obtain additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the 26th District, please contact Congressman Burgess’ Deputy District Director, Robin Vaughan, at (940) 497-5031 or visit Congressman Burgess’ website. ###
06.04.2015	House approves Burgess NHTSA amendment to expedite permanent Takata recall solution Washington, D.C., -- The House of Representatives passed Congressman Michael C. Burgess’ amendment to the Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2016. The policy affords an additional $4 million to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) for policing the safety of auto manufacturer’s products. The proposed adjustment comes just one day after the House Energy & Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade (CMT) held a hearing to investigate ongoing Takata airbag failures and recalls. In the hearing, NHTSA’s new Administrator, Mark Rosekind, argued that the agency would have been better equipped to identify and mandate recalls with more resources in recent years. “The Takata recalls stem from an issue that should have been solved long ago,” Rep. Burgess said. “But In the interest of saving lives – from new Chairman to new Administrator – I’m offering an olive branch. It is my sincere hope that these funds help implement a permanent solution to this problem.” The $4 million increase was offset by cutting extra funding the bill provided to the Secretary of Transportation’s office. ###
06.02.2015	Opening Statement of the Honorable Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Markup “An Update on the Takata Airbag Ruptures and Recalls” June 2, 2015 As prepared for delivery: Good afternoon. I want to welcome everyone to our hearing today as we revisit a very serious motor vehicle defect. Six months ago, this subcommittee held a hearing looking at this same issue and the Members were assured that everything was being done and that testing and expertise were being brought to bear. But there were still a lot of unanswered questions. I sat in on that hearing and raised the concern that Safer is not the same thing as Safe. Six months later, I hope we are getting down the road of safer, but it is still unclear to me how far away we are from Safe. A few weeks ago, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration launched the largest motor vehicle safety recall in our nation’s history due to defective Takata airbags. This recall may impact up to 13% of the country’s driving population, affecting an unknown number of vehicles and spanning 11 vehicle manufacturers. Since our last hearing, tragically, there has been an additional death attributed to an exploding Takata airbag in my home state of Texas. Every morning I fear I am playing headline roulette waiting for another rupture. While it has now been confirmed that there is a defect affecting at least six Takata airbag inflators, we still don’t have any great clarity about what was the root cause and how we know that we are safe going forward. Clarity and transparency are needed. One thing that isn’t clear is why we are launching this national recall now instead of almost a year ago when we had almost the same information before us. The American people deserve much more. They deserve to know when a national recall is announced if their car is part of the recall. I am repeatedly visited by vehicle manufacturers who lament the challenges of getting drivers to respond to recall notices, especially following a year of record recalls and an overwhelming sense of recall fatigue. Yet, when we do have the attention of consumers, how is it helpful to tell them there is a recall but check back later to see if you need to do something. NHTSA serves a fundamental and critical role in ensuring vehicle safety. It is important that it be a part of the solution in every step of the recall process in removing defective vehicles from the road. The supply of replacement parts is also a concern. I am glad that NHTSA is acknowledging that it has a role to play. U.S. drivers are competing against a global supply chain and recalls in many parts of the world. I also acknowledge that Dr. Rosekind is still fairly new to NHTSA, and was not yet the Administrator at our last hearing. I hope we will see more action from them going forward that is direct and timely. In that vein, I have serious concerns about where we are in the process. It is inconceivable to me that none of the tests conducted by Takata over the past year on over 30,000 inflators has given us a clearer picture and dictated more direct action. And why is it that we still don’t have any deployment testing being done by anyone besides Takata? At what point do we accept that we need to completely eliminate the defective inflators and implement a new design and manufacturing process? Are all the driver side airbag replacements now using different inflator compounds? What is different about the passenger side inflators? We have many questions today. The most important question of all, however, does not involve compounds, desiccant, o-rings or moisture. It is simply: When will we have a plan that can be presented to the public that identifies who is affected, and when they will have a SAFE, not safer, but SAFE, replacement part available? Nothing is more important, and nothing else is acceptable. In the meantime, the driving public should continue checking their VIN numbers against NHTSA’s database to see if their vehicle is affected. This includes those vehicles that have previously been recalled. ###
05.20.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., along with Reps. Linda Sanchez, John B. Larson, and Marsha Blackburn today, introduced H.R. 2461, the “Increasing Access to Osteoporosis Testing for Medicare Beneficiaries Act of 2015.” This legislation establishes a business case for administering Dual Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry (DXA) tests, a critical test for osteoporosis risk that has become too costly for many providers since 2007 reimbursement cuts. H.R. 2461 has been endorsed by the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, The International Society for Clinical Densitometry, and the National Osteoporosis Foundation. “This bill restores access to a vital preventative service that will dramatically reduce fracture rates and generate a substantial savings,” Rep. Burgess said. As a physician, I know just how big a public health threat osteoporosis is because, often, patients show no symptoms until they have a fracture. It is critical we act to ensure Medicare providers stay ahead of this debilitating disease.” Osteoporosis: A prevalent, deadly, and costly looming public health concern: Low bone mass and osteoporosis is responsible for over two million fractures each year, with half of all women and one-fourth of all men over the age of 50 experiencing osteoporosis related fractures in their lifetime. 54 million Americans over age 50 have osteoporosis. This number is expected to increase by 27 percent by 2030. Since 2007 Medicare cuts, there has been a 12.9 percent decline in DXA providers and fewer providers obtaining certifications to administer DXA tests. Overall, more than one million fewer tests have been done since 2008. A recent Mayo Clinic study shows that the hospital burden of osteoporotic fractures and hospital cost is greater than that of myocardial infarction, stroke, or breast cancer. Medicare paid $18.7 billion in 2010 for direct costs of new fractures and this number is projected to grow to over $25 billion per year by 2025. Furthermore, according to Kaiser Southern California’s Healthy Bones Program, utilization of DXA testing and treatment resulted in 37 percent fewer fractures and more than $30 million savings in a single year.
05.19.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., today, joined U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Bill Cassidy (R-LA), as well as Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD) today to introduce The Foreign Medical School Accountability Fairness Act. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation ends special treatment to a small number of medical schools in the Caribbean that, in 2012, took in more than $450 million in U.S. Department of Education Title IV funding – two-thirds of all Title IV dollars that go to foreign medical schools. This fix would apply the following two requirements to all medical schools outside of the U.S. and Canada: at least 60% of the enrollment must be non-U.S. citizens or permanent residents and students must have at least a 75% pass rate on the U.S. Medical Licensing Exam. “This is about leveling the playing field and improving student quality,” Rep. Burgess said. “If medical schools outside the U.S. are going to receive federal money, they need to meet the standards of education those taxpayer dollars were meant to fund. We must close this loophole to disallow foreign schools from accessing huge amounts of federal dollars at the expense of education and doctor quality.” “A loophole in current law allows for-profit medical schools in the Caribbean to enroll large percentages of American students – and profit from hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars – without meeting the same quality standards of instruction as medical schools in the U.S. or the basic requirements of all other foreign medical schools,” Senator Durbin said. “Our bill to close that loophole has broad support among the U.S. medical school community and now is supported by members from both parties in both chambers. As Congress continues work on the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, I hope this bipartisan bill will be part of the discussion.” “There are reports that some foreign medical schools inappropriately use taxpayer dollars. By fixing a loophole, we can ensure these schools are held to the same standards as every other school,” Senator Bill Cassidy M.D said. “I am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing this important piece of legislation that will close a loophole that has left students open to exploitation for too long,” Rep. Cummings said. “This bill would send a clear message to unscrupulous institutions that seek to target students for their financial aid while delivering substandard outcomes. Protecting students and taxpayer dollars is a bipartisan issue and Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle will not stand for substandard results.” A September 2013 investigative report in Bloomberg Markets highlighted two foreign medical schools – American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine (AUC) and Ross University School of Medicine – which admit hundreds of students, many of whom were rejected by U.S. medical colleges. According to the report, students at medical schools operating outside of the United States and Canada amass more student debt than those at medical schools in the United States. For example, graduates of the American University of the Caribbean have a median of $309,000 in federal student debt versus $180,000 for graduates of U.S. medical schools. These foreign medical schools are also much less successful ensuring students’ progress all the way through the program. The average attrition rate at U.S. medical schools is 3% while rates at for-profit foreign medical schools can be up to 26% or higher. Even if students do finish at these schools, with much more debt, they often have difficulty finding a residency – mandatory for actually practicing medicine in the United States. In 2015, foreign-trained, American graduates had a residency match rate of 53% compared to 94% of graduates of U.S. medical schools. They are even less likely to land a residency position the second time around.
05.15.2015	The House of Representatives today, passed the FY 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which includes Congressman Michael C. Burgess’ ‘audit the Pentagon’ amendment. This provision requires the Pentagon’s compliance in providing a report outlining progress toward their long-overdue external audit. Under current law, the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990 requires federal agencies to pass an independent external audit every year. Yet, 20 years later, the Department of Defense (DOD) is the only major agency that is, according to the Government Accountability Office, not compliant with this mandate. While years ago, the DOD agreed to pass an audit by 2017, no progress has shown that to be a likelihood. “No agency is above the law,” Rep. Burgess said. “As we continue increasing funding to ensure our national defense, we as lawmakers have a constitutional duty to monitor use of these tax dollars. It’s time for both Congress and the Pentagon to observe this responsibility and give the American people the accountability they deserve. “I extend congratulations to Chairman Mac Thornberry, a fellow Texan, on successfully brokering the passage of his first national defense funding bill.”
05.14.2015	Under current law, the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990 requires federal agencies to pass an independent external audit every year, starting in the 1990s. Yet 20 years later, DOD is the only major agency that is, according to the Government Accountability Office, not compliant with this requirement. While DOD years ago said it would pass an audit by 2017, no progress has shown that to be a likelihood. Congressman Michael C. Burgess today, with Congresswomen Barbara Lee and Jan Schakowsky, reintroduced their bipartisan amendment to the FY 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), allowing Congress insight into Pentagon spending. Under the provision, the Secretary of Defense would provide Congress with rankings of their departments, in the order of most prepared. “As the holder of the purse, Congress has a duty to demand transparency,” Rep. Burgess said. “Our amendment will provide Congress with concrete, concise information as to how close each part of DOD is to achieving the goal. No such list currently exists and Congress to date has not required it. This amendment corrects a crucial missing puzzle piece and allows the Congress to execute a chief governmental function: oversight.” “Unauditable is unacceptable,” said Congresswoman Lee. “It has been more than two decades since the Pentagon was required to undergo an audit and the Pentagon is still reporting that full audit-readiness is years off. This amendment, which also passed last year, requires a ranked list of all departments and agencies by their audit-readiness status. This list will empower Congress to make decisions on next steps to ensure auditability of the Pentagon. We need greater sunlight and transparency so the American people know how their hard-earned tax dollars are being spent. It’s past time to end waste, fraud and abuse of taxpayer dollars in Pentagon spending.” Grover Norquist, President of Americans for Tax Reform, made the following remarks in support of the amendment: "All departments of the United States Government are audited--except the Pentagon. This is not acceptable. If the management of the Pentagon cannot pass an audit--get new management. At a time when resources are scarce it is particularly important that we audit the Pentagon to reduce waste and the costs of mismanagement. All Americans who want our nation strong and secure know that step one is to ensure that all available resources are being spent wisely. Every wasted dollar is a cut in our preparedness. An audit is the only way to begin to know how much is misspent.”
05.12.2015	After The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) issued a new HIV-positive organ donor final rule late last week, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., commended the provision. The rule, resulting from the “HIV Organ Policy Equity (HOPE) Act of 2013,” will allow those infected with HIV to donate their organs to other HIV-positive patients participating in clinical research. Rep. Burgess cosponsored the HOPE Act. “It is gratifying to see this lifesaving law beginning to take shape,” Rep. Burgess said. “HIV-positive patients whose course has been complicated by liver failure will now have another option in their fight for survival. And, medical researchers have gained a tool in their search for life saving treatments.” The HOPE Act was strongly supported by the American Society of Transplant Surgeons, the Americans Society of Nephrology, HIV Medicine Association, and the American Society of Transplantation. HHS Final Rule Summary: This final rule amends the regulations implementing the National Organ Transplant Act of 1984, as amended, (NOTA) pursuant to statutory requirements of the HIV Organ Policy Equity Act (HOPE Act), enacted in 2013. In accordance with the mandates of the HOPE Act, this regulation removes the current regulatory provision that requires the Organ Procurement Transplantation Network (OPTN) to adopt and use standards for preventing the acquisition of organs from individuals known to be infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). In its place, this regulation includes new requirements that organs from individuals infected with HIV may be transplanted only into individuals who are infected with HIV before receiving such organs and who are participating in clinical research approved by an institutional review board. The only exception to this requirement of participation in such clinical research is if the Secretary publishes a determination in the future that participation in such clinical research, as a requirement for transplants of organs from individuals infected with HIV, is no longer warranted. In addition, this regulatory change establishes that OPTN standards must ensure that any HIV-infected transplant recipients are participating in clinical research in accordance with the research criteria to be published by the Secretary. Alternately, if and when the Secretary determines that participation in such clinical research should no longer be a requirement for transplants with organs from donors infected with HIV to individuals infected with HIV, the regulation mandates that the OPTN adopt and use standards of quality, as directed by the Secretary, consistent with the law and in a way that ensures the changes will not reduce the safety of organ transplantation.
05.06.2015	After the passing of Former House Speaker Jim Wright, who represented Fort Worth in Congress for 34 years, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., made the following remarks: “My thoughts and prayers are with the family and loved ones of Former Speaker Wright,” Rep. Burgess said. “After having the opportunity to meet and speak with him, it was clear to me that he cared deeply about the people of Fort Worth and our surrounding communities. He will be missed.”
05.01.2015	For the fifth consecutive year, Rep. Burgess introduced an amendment to prohibit using federal funds for the enforcement of incandescent light bulb standards. Late Thursday night, it passed by a vote of 232-189 and was included in the fiscal 2016 Department of Energy appropriations bill. “I think the American people are trustworthy enough to choose which light bulbs to use in their own homes,” Rep. Burgess said. “The light bulb mandate is a perfect example of just how far our Constitution’s commerce clause has strayed from its original purpose. The adoption of this common-sense amendment is critical, so that the federal government doesn’t continue dictating which household products to use.” Rep. Burgess’ amendment has been accepted for the past four years, and has been included in the annual appropriations legislation signed by President Obama each year since its first inclusion in FY12. The measure is focused on language in the 2007 Energy Independence Security Act, which takes away consumer choice with regard to which light bulbs consumers may purchase. Of the 22 recorded votes Thursday night, Rep. Burgess’ amendment was the only to be adopted.
04.29.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., (TX-26), Subcommittee Chairman of the House Energy & Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade today, praised the passage of H.R. 2045, the “Targeting Rogue and Opaque Letters (TROL) Act” of 2015, through the full committee. The bipartisan bill confronts bad faith demand letters that contain misleading information, or fail to disclose key pieces of patent information. Reps. Burgess and Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) gave the following remarks after the TROL Act’s advancement: “Abusive patent letters unjustly threaten small business owners and drive up prices for consumers,” Rep. Burgess said. “I am pleased by the passage of this critical bill, which stops bad-faith litigators from using our courts to prey on both aspiring and accomplished entrepreneurs. This is a necessary solution that balances first amendment rights of legitimate patent holders and filters out letters that lack legitimacy.” “This bill deals with one of the most pressing issues with our patent system,” Rep. Kaptur said. “A small group of bad actors have discovered that they can extract money from our nation’s independent inventors and small businesses, especially those with only one or two patents, by sending out hundreds or even thousands of erroneous patent lawsuit threats. This legislation raises the stakes for those that engage in this kind of predatory behavior and establishes a standard for enforcement across all states to protect against it." The TROL Act was introduced by a bipartisan coalition consisting of Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade (CMT) Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., (TX-26), CMT Subcommittee Vice-Chairman Leonard Lance (NJ-7), Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Congressman Gregg Harper (MS-3), Congressman Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), and Congressman Markwayne Mullin (OK-2).
04.23.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., introduced legislation Wednesday to prohibit the domestic use of weaponized unmanned aircraft systems. H.R.1939, the “No Armed Drones Act (NADA) of 2015,” prohibits the Secretary of Transportation from authorizing the use of drones as weapons against any person or property in the national airspace. “American citizens – past, present, and future – should never have to face the use of military tactics by agents of our justice system,” Burgess said. “ Our founders envisioned a society where citizens would be innocent until proven guilty, and wouldn’t be treated like suspected criminals while going about their everyday lives. Arming a surveillance drone for day-to-day law enforcement purposes clearly violates those ideals of liberty and must be banned.”
04.22.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., today, requested that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) immediately address the recent spike in reported cases of income tax identification theft. In a letter to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen, Rep. Burgess cited a significant rise in theft reports from his own congressional district and demanded that the IRS provide analysis on their fraud investigation procedures. “Tax fraud is a growing problem that devastates families and places billions of taxpayer dollars into the hands of criminals,” Burgess said. “The IRS is responsible for maintaining trustworthy stewardship of taxpayer data. If they want to rebuild public trust, the IRS must help Americans feel secure in the belief that they are safeguarding sensitive data and combating theft.” Income tax identification theft occurs when a thief files an income tax return using the Taxpayer Identification Number or Social Security number of a legitimate taxpayer and claims a refund based on this stolen information. Each year, thousands of filed claims are subject to refund fraud. Last year alone, an estimated $5.8 billion was wrongly dispersed to identity thieves during the 2013 filing year. Also concerning, is a recently released Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) report stating that the IRS took an average of 278 days to resolve fraudulently impacted accounts.
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – After the U.S. Senate passed H.R. 2, the “SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2015,” last night, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., commended the 98-2 vote, which assertively repealed the flawed Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula. “After more than a decade of uneven progress, it’s almost overwhelming to think that more than 90 percent of Congress finally voted to repeal the SGR. With bipartisan strength, we passed the most meaningful entitlement reform in years with a product that’s a huge victory for seniors, providers, taxpayers, and the integrity of the entire Medicare system. “I’ve worked to resolve this issue my entire congressional career, and I extend my deepest thanks to everyone who played a part in making the burdensome SGR formula a relic of the past. May we never speak of it again.”
04.08.2015	Fort Worth Star-Telegram April 3, 2015 At town-hall meetings and events across greater Fort Worth, seniors ask me repeatedly why they had to change doctors when they enrolled in Medicare. Doctors and care providers tell me that they simply cannot afford to continue caring for Medicare patients because they are threatened with reimbursements that fall short of service costs. Simply put, The Sustainable Growth Rate formula (SGR) is the top culprit. I’ve been trying to repeal it ever since I came to Congress because – as a physician – I know first-hand how destructive this formula is to the doctor-patient relationship. For background, SGR was approved by Congress in 1997 as an attempt to mitigate growing Medicare services. But, the formula proved uneven to the growth of the medical industry, highly unrealistic, and ultimately threatening to care providers’ ability to serve patients. Since 2003, Congress has continued scrapping together “patches” to soften this blow. This method creates never-ending uncertainty for providers and constantly threatens seniors’ access to care. These patches are a failed price control, a failed budget gimmick that hide the true cost of Medicare costs to the taxpayer, and will only get more expensive. This path is unsustainable. But, there’s new hope. After wasting time and taxpayer dollars re-hashing this issue 18 times since 2003, Congress is closer than ever to a permanent solution. In a rare show of unity last week, the House of Representatives passed this legislation, ”The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act,” to repeal the Sustainable Growth Rate and preserve the integrity of our Medicare system with an astounding 392 votes. For elderly beneficiaries This bill is all about access for seniors and the end of the annual threat to their care. Once SGR is repealed, the new system will streamline Medicare’s existing web of quality programs into a single framework. This will drastically improve payment accuracy and encourage physicians to adopt proven practices. Therefore, creating a more transparent system where doctors –not bureaucrats – are in charge. For doctors and other licensed care providers Most importantly, my bill will finally stop the uncertainty of dramatic payment cuts. It enacts a 0.5 percent payment update for five years – bringing stability and longer term financial certainty to practices. Additionally, it includes provisions to incentivize the use of alternative payment models that encourage focus on coordination among providers and preventative services that improve quality and lower cost. For taxpayers This bill points us back toward fiscal sanity, and is the first major entitlement reform in nearly 20 years. The non-partisan Congressional Budget office announced that this legislation will likely result in a net savings, because the cost of freezing Medicare’s payment rates would cost much more than this fix – to the tune of about one billion dollars. The Senate must act now For Washington, this is the first step toward real entitlement reforms in decades and ends years of irresponsible policies. For the elderly, it means a stronger overall Medicare system and, for taxpayers, it means honest accounting, real savings, and brings us closer to fiscal solvency. If the Senate doesn’t act on this legislation when they reconvene in just less than two weeks, it means another year of instability for seniors and providers. Because the last patch expired on April 1, an automatic 21 percent pay cut for providers was triggered, which must now be fixed regardless. We’re closer than ever to putting this issue behind us and focusing on future reforms and I am proud to have done my part in this fight. But, this must be done, and I won’t stop working on this for seniors and providers until it is law.
04.07.2015	This Saturday, Representative Burgess will join Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz, as well as Reps. Sam Johnson, John Ratcliffe, Jeb Hensarling, Joe Barton, Kay Granger, Kenny Marchant, Roger Williams, John Carter, Pete Sessions, and Marc Veasey to help provide grade 8-12 students with the opportunity to learn more about our national service academies. North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum When: Saturday, April 11, 2015 8:00 a.m. – 12:00 CT (Registration at 7:30 a.m.) Where: Lewisville High School 1098 W. Main St. Lewisville, Texas 75067 Representatives from Congressional offices and all five academies (U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy), as well as current academy cadets and midshipmen will be in attendance. Interested North Texas students, parents and educators have been encouraged to meet face-to-face with these representatives to learn more about the possibilities associated with attending these institutions. Other presenters include representatives from the Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine Corps ROTC. The Forum is free and open to the public; no pre-registration is required.
03.26.2015	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., oversaw the passage of his bill, H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, to repeal the flawed Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula and replace it with a long-term sustainable plan. The agreement marks a critical advancement for entitlement reform, and is the result of intricate – long fought – efforts to promote higher quality care and access for seniors. “This is the first step toward real, meaningful, entitlement reform,” Burgess said. “I have worked my entire congressional career to address this problem and, after years of uneven progress, we have finally taken this opportunity to do what is right for seniors, providers, and the American taxpayer. “We just accomplished the unprecedented. Now, it’s time for the Senate to take action. I am optimistic that the Senate will see today’s work as a bellwether to prioritize this critical legislation and send it to the White House to be signed into law.” Background: H.R. 2 repeals the fundamentally flawed SGR formula, which has forced 17 short-term costly patches over the past decade in order to prevent devastating Medicare reimbursement rate cuts. The formula will be replaced with a system focused on quality care and accountability. The plan will: • Repeal the SGR and end the annual threat to seniors’ care, while instituting a 0.5% payment update each year for five years. • Improve the fee-for-service system by streamlining Medicare’s existing web of quality programs into one value-based performance program. It increases payment accuracy and encourages physicians to adopt proven practices. • Incentivize the use of alternative payment models to encourage doctors and providers to focus more on coordination and prevention to improve quality and reduce costs. • Make Medicare more transparent by giving patients more access to information and supplying doctors with data they can use to improve care.
03.25.2015	Good morning and welcome to the Subcommittee’s first markup of the 114th Congress. In January, we heard testimony about the key elements of sound data security and breach notification legislation. Last week, we heard from a wide variety of stakeholders about this discussion draft. Now we move further into the legislative process with today’s Subcommittee markup. I am very pleased with the bipartisan progress shown by my colleagues, Vice Chairman of the full Committee Congressman Blackburn and Congressman Welch announcing this draft legislation. I would also like to recognize Congressman Loebsack for joining in this effort. This Subcommittee has a history of bipartisan cooperation demonstrated by the work Congressman Barton and Congressman Rush have also put into this issue over the years. Finding a workable bipartisan compromise that can become law has been elusive. But I believe that by focusing on how the criminals make their money we can work together and achieve a workable solution for the millions of Americans impacted by identity theft and financial fraud. Perfect cannot be the enemy of the good. And we must ensure that there are meaningful consumer protections in this draft. Among them, we must protect consumers from the annul $100 billion bill they pay each year in higher fees and prices. And cybercrime is estimated to cost Americans 508,000 jobs annually. Oh to have a bill with so many jobs to show our constituents. Some folks will complain about what is not in the bill. But we choose to learn from Congress’ failures of the last ten years. If we want to actually pass legislation we cannot future proof this bill. We cannot shade into areas such as privacy. This Administration and our minority colleagues have had six years and they still can’t agree on how to address privacy. On the topic of privacy – let me reiterate – while we don’t tackle privacy we don’t preempt privacy either. This bill is focused on unauthorized access that leads to identity theft and financial fraud. It has nothing to do with permitted access, or when that permission can be given, or what data can be collected. I look forward to continuing the bipartisan and good faith negotiations with all interested stakeholders. Our doors remain open. We will have a full-committee mark-up and I hope that some Members will hold their issues until then so that we can work to address as many concerns as possible and achieve as broad a compromise as possible.
03.24.2015	After the U.S. House of Representatives called on President Obama to provide Ukraine with military assistance yesterday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., issued the following statement: "The sovereignty of Ukraine must be defended for the for the territorial integrity of the region." Burgess said. "Let today's vote be a signal to the Russian Federation that their unprovoked and senseless aggression against the Ukrainian people must cease."
03.19.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess today, introduced H.R. 1470, the “SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2015,” which repeals the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula and replaces it with a long-term sustainable plan. The bipartisan bill is an important advancement in long-fought efforts to comprehensively reform the Medicare system in order to promote higher quality care for seniors, physicians, and providers. The legislation will prevent harmful cuts to Medicare providers that threaten seniors’ access to care. Ultimately, the agreement will preserve Medicare’s integrity by putting an end to costly year-by-year “patches,” and provide reassurance to seniors with access to quality care they deserve. “As a doctor, I know first-hand just how destructive the SGR formula has been to America’s seniors and their providers,” Burgess said. “Finally, after unparalleled progress in recent years, both sides of the aisle have begun to understand that the long-term solvency of our Medicare system depends on taking this fight head-on together. “Permanently repealing the SGR puts medical experts back in charge of measuring quality care, stamps out unnecessary barriers between seniors and their doctors, and begins to address the single largest driver of our debt. This is a clear opportunity to do what is right for the American people, and a paramount first step toward accomplishing real – meaningful – entitlement reforms.” The bill was introduced by a bipartisan coalition consisting of Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D (R-TX), House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), House Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-PA), Rep. Charles Boustany (R-LA), House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI), House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), and Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA). ###
03.16.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., and Congressman Gene Greene’s trauma funding reauthorization bills were passed today in the U.S. House of Representatives. H.R. 647, the Improving Regulatory Transparency for New Medical Therapies Act, and H.R. 648, the Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorizations Act, passed with strong bipartisan support. The measures will reauthorize critical trauma and emergency preparedness grants, address shortfalls in trauma services, and work to avert further trauma center closures. Trauma can happen at any time and to anyone. It centers and systems must be available for all victims of traumatic injury. Getting a trauma victim to appropriate medical care right away is the first step in saving their life. “We must strive for trauma patients to be treated within the “golden hour” – the crucial minutes following an accident,” Burgess said. “It is unacceptable that tens of millions of Americans and their families lack access to trauma centers in that time frame. But today, the House took an important step in providing adequate, and fully developed, service to those patients who need urgent care when the unthinkable happens.” “Traumatic injury is the leading cause of death for Americans under the age of 44, and unfortunately, our current trauma care system remains inconsistent nationwide,” Green said. “Forty-five million people still lack access to trauma care during the “golden hour” after injury occurs when their life could depend on it. These critical funds support the development of these life-saving programs so that so that all Americans can have access to trauma care when they need it.” ###
03.03.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today led a group of bipartisan, bicameral members of Congress in introducing legislation to improve access to maternity care for patients in rural and under-served areas. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today led a group of bipartisan, bicameral members of Congress in introducing legislation to improve access to maternity care for patients in rural and under-served areas. The bill, known as the Improving Access to Maternity Care Act (H.R. 1209 and S. 628), aims to reduce professional maternity care shortages by incentivizing providers to practice in these rural areas to the tune of a $50,000 student loan repayment. In exchange, they would agree to two years of service in an area experiencing care shortages. The bill would create a maternity care health professional shortage (HPSA) designation. Burgess, who introduced a similar bill last year, was joined in this effort by U.S. Senators Mark Kirk (R-IL) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WA), along with Congresswoman Lois Capps (D-CA). The bill addresses alarming statistics, such as the fact that babies born to mothers who received no prenatal care are three times more likely to be low birth weight and are five times more likely to die than babies whose mothers received care. In Texas, there has been virtually no increase in the number of OB-GYNs trained since 1980, yet the population of women in the United States has increased by a quarter during that time. An alarming number of women who live in rural communities in Texas are more than 60 minutes away from a hospital offering perinatal services. “Our bill not only takes an important step towards allowing American women and their families the access to the proper care they need, but it also includes common-sense incentives for physicians to serve these areas,” Burgess said. “As an OB-GYN, I can attest that this is the type of legislation that benefits both for the doctor and the patient – it’s a win all around.” "In Illinois, there is only one OB-GYN for every 3,660 women throughout the state, and many of our obstetric hospitals are understaffed," Kirk said. "Though 63 new ob-gyns are trained annually in Illinois, the number of retiring providers is just as high. This bipartisan legislation incentivizes providers to care for mothers and babies in areas where the care is most needed." “The Improving Access to Maternity Care Act will identify areas of shortage and inadequate access to help target resources so providers can deliver the type of care that communities in Wisconsin and across our country so desperately need,” Baldwin said. “I’m proud to join this bipartisan effort to ensure that healthier pregnancies lead to healthier babies.” “This bipartisan, common-sense bill will go a long way toward providing vital access to maternity care for women and their families,” Capps said. “I am proud to co-author this bill because as a nurse, I know firsthand the critical importance of providing early quality health care to expecting mothers, especially in under-served areas. Specifically, this bill will help ensure that we’re properly identifying maternal health provider shortage areas, and increasing access to high quality providers in those communities.” “Access to quality maternal care is essential for healthy mothers and healthy babies in America. Unfortunately,in under-served parts of our country, expecting women face shortages of qualified maternity care providers, including OB-GYNs,” John C. Jennings, President of the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, said. “The Improving Access to Maternity Care Act will help respond to the needs of under-served American women and will bring more equality to maternal care in America.” H.R. 1209 and S. 628 are endorsed by the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and the American College of Nurse-Midwives (ACNM). ###
03.02.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today introduced legislation that would expand the use of Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), which allow individuals to set aside funds for themselves and their families to help with the increasing cost of deductibles and out-of-pocket healthcare expenses. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today introduced legislation that would expand the use of Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), which allow individuals to set aside funds for themselves and their families to help with the increasing cost of deductibles and out-of-pocket healthcare expenses. Currently, individuals are only permitted to purchase HSAs for certain insurance plans that are limited by how much one is able to contribute. Often, the limit is much lower than their deductible. Burgess’ legislation would allow HSAs to be used more broadly, increasing patient choice in how their healthcare dollars are spent. “I have long been a proponent of expanding the use of HSAs, especially in light of how vastly the president’s health care law limits personal choice when it comes to paying for health care,” Burgess said. “This legislation allows individuals to use their own money more effectively and brings back an element of freedom when it comes to paying for health care.” The bill, which is almost identical to the version Burgess introduced last Congress, would allow parents to set up HSAs for their children while allowing them to claim an after-tax deduction. It also raises the contribution limit to match the maximum out-of-pocket limit. In addition, it provides bankruptcy protections to HSAs in the same way retirement accounts are currently protected. “It is unfair for the federal government to further punish a person who has gone bankrupt by also taking away money he or she has carefully set aside for health care for themselves and their children,” Burgess said. “This bill is an important step in the right direction to help mitigate some of the problems that have arisen as a result of the president’s damaging health care law.” ###
02.26.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today issued the following statement in response to the announcement from the Federal Communications Commission that it will implement regulations of the Internet: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today issued the following statement in response to the announcement from the Federal Communications Commission that it will implement regulations of the Internet: “The Internet for decades has been an open frontier for limitless free speech, innovation, creation, business and economic growth and, importantly, immeasurable amounts of free information at our fingertips. “The Internet is one of the very last spaces we can access in our daily lives without the burdensome intrusion of the federal government. Because it has not been regulated until now, it has been one of the success stories of our modern time in terms of boundless freedom, opportunity, diversity and innovation. Regulation of this space by unelected Washington bureaucrats is the nail in the coffin for American ingenuity. Sadly, because of the FCC’s ruling today, it is only a matter of time when the Internet – like everything else – is no longer a story of freedom and advancement, but of big government, divisiveness, red tape and consumer frustration that does nothing to improve American competitiveness and growth.” ###
02.12.2015	Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Gene Green (D-TX) today announced two of their bills to improve treatment and access to care for trauma patients were reported out of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Gene Green (D-TX) today announced two of their bills to improve treatment and access to care for trauma patients were reported out of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. The bills, the Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act (H.R. 648) and the Access to Life-Saving Trauma Care for All Americans Act (H.R. 647), both address the issue of disparity within areas with access to proper trauma systems and those without, as well as closure of these systems. H.R. 647 reauthorizes the Trauma Care Center Grants and Trauma Service Availability Grants. These programs are designed to provide grants to prevent further trauma center closures, address shortfalls in trauma services and improve access to and the availability of trauma care in underserved areas. H.R. 648 reauthorizes Trauma and Emergency Care Systems Grants. These programs are essential to ensure the coordination of trauma care delivery among trauma centers, as well as implement and evaluate innovative models of regionalized emergency care systems. “Following a trauma, a patient needs access to care as soon as possible – within the ‘golden hour,’” Burgess said. “But sadly, 45 million Americans lack access to a trauma center within this amount of time. As a physician, I know how important it is that we have adequate, fully developed and functional trauma systems in the U.S. To let another system atrophy and widen the disparity between areas with access to trauma systems and those without is unfair to patients who need urgent care when the unthinkable happens.” “Reauthorization of these programs will help to prevent trauma center closures, facilitate the development of more efficient regionalized systems of care, and improve our ability to save lives,” Green said. “Trauma can happen to anyone, anywhere, at any time. The importance of a robust and efficient trauma care system and quality trauma centers is an issue we where we can come together to ensure that all Americans have access to care when their life depends on it.” This legislation has been endorsed by the American Association of Neurological Surgeons, the American Association of Orthopedic Surgeons, the American Burn Association, the American College of Emergency Physicians, the American College of Surgeons, the American Trauma Society, the Congress of Neurological Surgeons, Association of Critical Care Transport, The American Heart Association, American Stroke Association, Emergency Nurses Association, Society of Trauma Nurses, American Association for the Surgery of Trauma, Eastern Association for the Surgery of Trauma, National Association of Emergency Medical Technicians, The Orthopedic Trauma Association and the Trauma Center Association of America. ###
02.03.2015	Texas House Republicans, in a show of solidarity, today issued the following joint statement in response to disparaging comments about the state of Texas made Monday by Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-FL) to Congressman Michael Burgess (R-TX) during a House Rules Committee hearing on legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Texas House Republicans, in a show of solidarity, today issued the following joint statement in response to disparaging comments about the state of Texas made Monday by Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-FL) to Congressman Michael Burgess (R-TX) during a House Rules Committee hearing on legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Don’t mess with Texas.” Today’s statement, #DontMessWithTexas, was made by Congressmen Louie Gohmert, Ted Poe, Will Hurd, Sam Johnson, John Ratcliffe, Jeb Hensarling, Joe Barton, John Culberson, Kevin Brady, Michael McCaul, Michael Conaway, Mac Thornberry, Randy Weber, Bill Flores, Randy Neugebauer, Lamar Smith, Pete Olson, Kenny Marchant, Roger Williams, Blake Farenthold, Michael Burgess, John Carter, Pete Sessions, Brian Babin and Congresswoman Kay Granger. In addition to issuing the statement, the members also called on Congressman Hastings to apologize to the citizens of Texas for his comments, which can be found here. More information on Monday’s Rules Committee hearing may be found here. ###
01.27.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today issued the following statement in response to the release of the initial discussion document that outlines proposals that are part of the 21st Century Cures initiative, which includes 10 measures that originated in Burgess’ office: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today issued the following statement in response to the release of the initial discussion document that outlines proposals that are part of the 21st Century Cures initiative, which includes 10 measures that originated in Burgess’ office: “As a physician, my mission first and foremost is to find methods and treatments that will help alleviate human pain and suffering,” Burgess said. “Our 21st Century Cures initiative is one of the most comprehensive legislative concepts the Energy and Commerce Committee has ever taken on. I am pleased that the projects I have worked on – such as neurological research legislation, access to materials for physicians and interoperability standards for Electronic Health Records – are part of this effort.” The 21st Century Cures initiative is an effort to take a comprehensive look at what steps the Congress can take to accelerate the pace of cures in America. It examines the full arc of the process, from discovery to development to delivery, to ensure we are taking full advantage of the advances made in science and technology to keep America the innovation capital of the world. Last week, Burgess introduced three pieces of legislation as part of the Cures initiative. More information may be found here, here and here. ###
01.22.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today issued the following statement on the invitation from House Speaker John Boehner to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to speak before a joint session of Congress next month: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today issued the following statement on the invitation from House Speaker John Boehner to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to speak before a joint session of Congress next month: “A strong and stable Israel is in the best interest of the United States, and we must and will do all we can to aid our longtime ally in fighting the dangerous threat of radical Islam. For that reason, I am fully supportive of Speaker Boehner’s invitation to Prime Minister Netanyahu and I look forward to hearing him address the Congress in February. I also agree with the Speaker’s criticism of President Obama for threatening to veto sanctions against Iran for refusing to end its nuclear program. Failing to support our allies is a bad strategy and should never be an option.” Proposed legislation that would sanction Iran in case negotiations to end its nuclear program fail has been supported by members of both parties, including Burgess. Burgess’ statement refers to a section of President Obama’s State of the Union address on January 21 in which he vowed to veto this legislation. The White House has criticized the Speaker’s invitation as a breach of protocol because he did not first consult the Obama administration. For more on Burgess’ stance on this issue, click here. ###
01.22.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today introduced legislation that would remove any authority the Central Intelligence Agency’s (CIA) has to carry out drone strikes abroad and transfer that power solely to the Department of Defense (DOD). share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today introduced legislation that would remove any authority the Central Intelligence Agency’s (CIA) has to carry out drone strikes abroad and transfer that power solely to the Department of Defense (DOD). The legislation, H.R. 466, is in response to the intelligence community’s practice of keeping drone strike authority within their purview and thus limiting the authority of the armed forces to carry out these missions. Burgess, who introduced identical legislation in the 113th Congress, said the best use of our CIA is to gather intelligence for the DOD’s use and not to act as a paramilitary organization with authority to conduct its own missions. “The emphasis that the CIA has placed on carrying out drone strikes abroad dangerously blurs the lines of jurisdiction between it and the military,” Burgess said. “Acting as an arm of the military goes against the mission statement of the CIA, but worse, it could impair the agency’s ability to conduct its most vital undertaking, which is to gather intelligence.” To read more about this legislation, click here. ###
01.20.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: This morning, I was in the audience in my home state of Texas as our new governor, Greg Abbott, delivered his inaugural address. This evening, I was in Washington as our president delivered his sixth State of the Union address. The marked differences in their speeches – and their approaches to governing – come as no surprise. On the one hand, Texas is an economic success story; on the other, the policies of this administration continue to present persistent headwinds to the vitality of the U.S. economy. Consider the contrasts: Governor Abbott pointed out that Texas is number one in job creation. President Obama still refuses to build the Keystone pipeline, which would create thousands of new jobs. Governor Abbot stressed that the government is the servant of the people, not the other way around. President Obama continues to dismiss the separation of powers and govern by executive order. Governor Abbott said Texans are tired of seeing our state sovereignty and the rule of law ignored by a federal government that refuses to secure our border. President Obama acted unilaterally to turn the Texas border from “porous” to “wide open,” endangering the lives of tens of thousands of innocent children in the process. Governor Abbott said he will place a greater value on hiring excellent teachers in our schools. President Obama, by contrast, has a plan to spend billions of tax dollars to make community college free for all, thereby diminishing the value of good vocational jobs. Governor Abbott described the rags-to-riches assent of successful Texans like Dan Duncan and Colleen Barrett. President Obama described his plan to issue even more government handouts, thereby removing the dignity that comes from hard work and the hope to one day achieve more than we are born with. Governor Abbott ended his speech by saying that even the future is bigger in Texas. Under the policies of President Obama, all that is bigger are our taxes, our deficit and our ideological differences. Until the Obama administration adopts the “Texas model” of economic governance, we can only expect more of the same. ###
01.14.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, on Tuesday introduced bipartisan legislation that would allow manufacturers of “Research Use Only” products without over-burdensome regulation from the Food and Drug Administration. The bill was co-authored by Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA). share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, on Tuesday introduced bipartisan legislation that would allow manufacturers of “Research Use Only” products without over-burdensome regulation from the Food and Drug Administration. The bill was co-authored by Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA). The Medical Testing Availability Act, H.R. 298, would prohibit the implementation of previously proposed regulatory changes to medical testing products the FDA designated for “Research Use Only.” The bill would enshrine in law correct practice allowing communications among customer service and technical support entities between the drug or testing product’s manufacturer and the user of the product on “Research Use Only” materials. “Incredible advances in personalized medicine hold great potential for patients and healthcare providers to detect, diagnose and treat disease,” Burgess said. “But physicians and medical professionals must be able to access them in order to provide the best care for their patients. Our bill is an important step towards improving medical innovation in the United States and, ultimately, finding cures to ailments that affect thousands of Americans each year.” “This narrowly tailored bill strikes a clear balance between the important developments in personalized medicine and the rights of patients to safely explore new care options,” Speier said. “The potential for personalized medical care is limitless. With new technologies developed in many companies in my district, we are experiencing an information revolution in patient diagnostics. Every patient is an individual. By supporting this growing industry, we can ensure doctors of the future have access to the best information possible to treat their patients. I am proud to work with my colleague Congressman Burgess on this bipartisan effort.” ###
01.13.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today introduced bipartisan legislation to improve and enhance the understanding of neurological diseases, which afflict tens of thousands of new patients in the U.S. each year. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today introduced bipartisan legislation to improve and enhance the understanding of neurological diseases, which afflict tens of thousands of new patients in the U.S. each year. The Advancing Research for Neurological Diseases Act, H.R. 292, co-sponsored by Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), will guide the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in tracking the incidence and prevalence of neurological diseases, including Multiple Sclerosis and Parkinson’s disease. The information collected will provide a foundation for evaluating and understanding aspects of these diseases we currently do not have a good grasp of, such as the geography of diagnoses, variances in gender, disease burden and changes in health care practices among patients. According to Burgess, this new surveillance system could one day lead to a cure for these diseases. “Because no national collecting system exists to gather data on disease and risk, geography and incidence, diet and relapse, we are hampered in our ability to understand these conditions and improve the lives of these patients,” Burgess said. “What this bill does is simple and long overdue: It organizes and analyzes important information that will lead to better treatment and even a cure for neurological diseases, which are so misunderstood, yet so prevalent in the U.S.” “The Advancing Research for Neurological Diseases Act will help the CDC provide more accurate information to assist those who research and treat neurological diseases, including Multiple Sclerosis and Parkinson’s disease,” Van Hollen said. “I am proud to continue working with Congressman Burgess on this important legislation, which will provide a foundation for evaluating and understanding the occurrence of these diseases and improve the prospects for discovering cures.” The bipartisan legislation has been endorsed by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society and the Parkinson’s Action Network, among others. “We are encouraged by the potential this bill has to accelerate research for multiple sclerosis,” Cynthia Zagieboylo, President and CEO of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, said. “Without basic data concerning the size and makeup of the MS population, our researchers are working at a distinct disadvantage because they have an incomplete picture of the disease. The additional information that this new data system would supply could point to new environmental triggers for the disease, which could lead to new treatment targets and a better understanding of the disease.” “Having a national data collection system gathering critical information on who has Parkinson's disease would be a game changer,” Ted Thompson, CEO of the Parkinson's Action Network, said. “We have advocated for the federal government to engage in this area because researchers have long said that such a system will help ensure better and more effective research, better treatments, and better services for people living with Parkinson's disease and other neurological disorders. Our hope is that it would one day help contribute to ultimately finding a cure for Parkinson's.” ###
01.13.2015	Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, and Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced bipartisan legislation to allow physicians full access to the most up-to-date educational materials like textbooks and journals so they may deliver the best care. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, and Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced bipartisan legislation to allow physicians full access to the most up-to-date educational materials like textbooks and journals so they may deliver the best care. The Protect Continuing Physician Education and Patient Care Act, H.R. 293, is in response to the Physician Payment Sunshine Act’s unintended consequence of over-burdensome reporting requirements that made access to educational materials for physicians difficult to obtain. The Sunshine Act was intended to make payments to physicians more transparent. The bill, which was a part of the Affordable Care Act, included 12 specific exclusions from the reporting requirement in order to ensure that medical practices and patient care would not be harmed. But in recent rules, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) determined that both continuing medical education events and the distribution of medical textbooks and peer-reviewed journals were subject to reporting, making them less accessible to physicians. This bill will minimize the negative impacts of the Sunshine Act by making these important materials exempt from reporting requirements. “As someone who practiced medicine for nearly 30 years, I can attest that the assessments, treatments and procedures I learned in medical school were outdated by the end of my career with new advances in medicine,” Burgess said. “As doctors, we are constantly studying new treatments and learning about new illnesses that did not exist even a few years ago. Without access to these materials, it could mean the difference between life and death of our patients. As a physician, I cannot allow that to happen. Our bill ensures it doesn’t have to.” “This bipartisan bill is about putting patients first,” DeFazio said. “Our bill ensures the Sunshine Act won’t restrict a physician’s access to the latest medical research and training. This common sense fix is a win for America’s doctors and continuing medical education, but most importantly, for patients.” The Protect Continuing Physician Education and Patient Care Act has been supported by 128 different organizations. “Specialty physicians depend on the latest medical journals and peer-reviewed data to ensure quality care and positive patient outcomes, Dr. Alex Valadka from the Alliance of Specialty Medicine said. “We thank Congressman Burgess for introducing legislation to ensure that the Affordable Care Act will not hamper access to independent educational materials, which clearly benefit the patients we treat.” ###
01.09.2015	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today released his 2014 Year-End Annual Report, a comprehensive document showcasing his legislative accomplishments, media presence, constituent services and correspondence with constituents in his North Texas district. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today released his 2014 Year-End Annual Report, a comprehensive document showcasing his legislative accomplishments, media presence, constituent services and correspondence with constituents in his North Texas district. Burgess, who has completed and released an annual report each year since 2009, said the reports are a way to reflect on the accomplishments from the past year, pinpoint areas for improvement and maintain his commitment to transparency with his constituents. “This year was a big one,” Burgess said. “Between the Ebola outbreak in our backyard to the thousands of unaccompanied minors on our border, we saw trying times this year in our home state. Our office was heavily involved in these and other issues in 2014, as evidenced by my involvement in committee hearings on these topics, letters I signed onto and legislation I introduced to get a handle on these crises. All of these documents and details are available in this year’s report.” Burgess also highlighted a piece of legislation he authored that became law, the MD CARE Act, to improve care for patients with muscular dystrophy. “I believe this law will significantly improve the lives of patients with muscular dystrophy, and I am pleased that this bipartisan measure is now officially the law of the land.” The report also includes a list of statistics of Burgess’ work in 2014, including: • Authored and introduced 15 pieces of legislation • Cosponsored 241 pieces of legislation • Opened 434 cases on behalf of constituents • Received and responded to more than 34,000 pieces of constituent correspondence • Held or attended more than 400 events • Conducted 106 television interviews and 88 radio interviews Click here to view the 2014 report. Click here to view past reports. ###
11.25.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement in reaction to news that talks to dismantle large parts of Iran's nuclear program were extended by another seven months: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement in reaction to news that talks to dismantle large parts of Iran's nuclear program were extended by another seven months: "The world looks to the United States in moments of global uncertainty, and this most recent action -- or inaction -- by the Obama administration appears not only weak, but dangerous. Instead of making a strong statement against a country that is a threat to global peace and has a deplorable human rights record, this administration has showed weakness and fragility by offering a seven-month extension. Stability in this region is in the best interest of the United States and its allies. It is time we see strong leadership from the Obama administration, who should hold Iran accountable for its actions." ###
11.20.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s announcement that he will take executive action to unilaterally grant amnesty to the millions of illegal immigrants currently living in the United States: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s announcement that he will take executive action to unilaterally grant amnesty to the millions of illegal immigrants currently living in the United States: “The president’s announcement comes at a curious time. I personally have a different perception of the urgency of this situation. Frankly, there is no evidence that the 11 million people currently living in the United States illegally are at immediate risk for deportation. In fact, the president’s comments earlier this year encouraged even more illegal and unsafe immigration that has put a terrible strain on our system in the state of Texas in particular and for the nation as a whole. “But the timing is also peculiar considering that just weeks ago, the American people made clear that they are unhappy with the president’s policies, power grabs and disregard for the rule of law when they overwhelmingly elected Republicans to public office. “And finally, the president has had six years to work with Congress – including two years in which his party held the majority in both chambers of Congress – to introduce immigration reform in a constitutional and legal way. The simple truth is that he could not get this done then, so he is resorting to using executive power – which is by definition temporary – to shove this measure through. Not only is it bad policy, but it is unfair to the millions of people who are waiting in line to come to the Unites States legally. It is a further erosion of the Constitution and American legal system that the Obama administration has perpetuated time and time again.” ###
11.19.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today announced he will serve as chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade (CMT) for the 114th Congress. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today announced he will serve as chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade (CMT) for the 114th Congress. Burgess, a physician who served as vice-chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittees on Oversight and Investigations and Health in the 113th Congress, said he is prepared and committed to serving the committee effectively in his new role. “It is a privilege to serve on the Committee on Energy and Commerce, one of the hardest working and most successful committees in the House,” Burgess said. “Under the leadership of Chairman Upton, we have been able to accomplish many goals, including the launch of the 21st Century Cures initiative, the ‘Architecture of Abundance’ new vision for American energy, and have had a record of legislative success. During this Congress, our committee has seen 85 committee bills pass the House, 32 signed into law and 50 currently awaiting Senate action. These achievements have put us on a path towards even more success in the next Congress, and I am looking forward to doing everything I can as chairman of CMT to continue to that success.” “The times in which we live are trying and the issues are complex,” Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) said. "I have full faith that Chairman Burgess will do an excellent job leading efforts to create more American jobs, encourage manufacturing in the United States, protect consumers’ personal information and put an end to burdensome regulation and federal red tape that hurts the average American employer and family.” “I came to Congress as a country doctor looking to work on issues that affected patients and medical practices across the country,” Burgess added. “While my role in the House has expanded, I have not lost sight of the reasons I came to Washington years ago. I look forward to continuing that work and commitment in my role as chairman of the subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade.” Click here to visit the Energy and Commerce Committee website for a full list of subcommittee assignments. ###
11.18.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today delivered the following statement, as prepared for delivery, at a hearing titled, “Update on the U.S. Public Health Response to the Ebola Outbreak”: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today delivered the following statement, as prepared for delivery, at a hearing titled, “Update on the U.S. Public Health Response to the Ebola Outbreak”: “This Ebola epidemic will surely go down in history as one of the most serious public health crises of the last several hundred years. “At our last hearing, we had a lot to discuss. Overall, we failed in our response to the Ebola crisis. Communication was lacking, systems of protocol broke down, and provisions were never in place to deal with this crisis to begin with. We know better than to let this happen again. This summer’s emergency only emphasized that we must speak with humility when discussing Ebola. “As a physician, one of my biggest concerns over the last six months or so was the safety and protection of health workers. I could not – and still do not – understand why health workers on the front lines of the epidemic in Africa were so much better protected than the nurses and doctors who treated Ebola patients in the United States. It is not only vital to contain the Ebola virus wherever it may be, but we must also ensure we are doing all we can to protect those who are serving these very sick and contagious patients. Until it is in your back yard as it was in mine in Texas, it is hard to comprehend the depth of the issue at hand. “I commend Dr. Frieden, the CDC and the other members of the panel for making yourselves available to the Congress so we may discuss policies that better protect the American public from infectious diseases like Ebola. I thank all of our witnesses for being here today. “It is my hope that we continue to make progress in this fight. Today’s hearing is another good start. We must examine the response plan, protocol, U.S. guidelines, travel restriction policies, budget for dealing with this crisis and protective gear and proper precautions for health workers. But finally, we must also take great care to closely follow the epidemic in West Africa, as it is only a matter of time before another patient walks through the doors of an unsuspecting U.S. hospital. “When – not if – that happens, we must be prepared.” More information on today's hearing may be found here. ###
11.12.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) on Tuesday recognized five veterans who received this year’s 26th District Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC) at a luncheon in Highland Village. share: f t Highland Village, TX – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) on Tuesday recognized five veterans who received this year’s 26th District Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC) at a luncheon in Highland Village. The CVC was created in 2005 to honor the distinguished living veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. Nominations were received from the community, veterans’ organizations and civic groups. “Five extraordinary individuals were selected to receive the 2014 Congressional Veteran Commendation,” Burgess said. “They served in the Armed Forces of the United States with distinction and continued their dedication to the nation by working tirelessly on behalf of their fellow veterans and serving the people in their communities.” This year’s commendations were presented at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association and the City of Highland Village. The five recipients of this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation are: Charles Correll (Colonel - U.S. Air Force) of Denton Peter Lane (Colonel - U.S. Air Force) of Denton Jack Milligan (Lieutenant Colonel - U.S. Army) of Highland Village Pat Smith (Colonel - U.S. Air Force) of Denton William Splichal (Chief Warrant Officer 4 - U.S. Army) of Trophy Club “While we have singled out these veterans for recognition, I want to extend my deepest appreciation to all veterans for your service to the United States of America,” Burgess remarked to the approximate 300 luncheon attendees. “On behalf of the citizens of the 26th District and of a grateful nation, we are forever in your debt.” ###
10.16.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today delivered the following opening statement at a hearing to examine the U.S. response to the Ebola crisis, which has afflicted three people at a hospital just 35 miles from Burgess’ North Texas Congressional district: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today delivered the following opening statement at a hearing to examine the U.S. response to the Ebola crisis, which has afflicted three people at a hospital just 35 miles from Burgess’ North Texas Congressional district: America’s response to the Ebola Virus Disease is not a political issue. This is a public health crisis and a dire one at that. The frightening truth is that we cannot guarantee the safety of our health care workers on the front lines of response. In West Africa, there have been 416 healthcare workers who have contracted Ebola. 233 of them have died. That is a 56% mortality rate. As of today, two health care workers contracted Ebola in the United States. According to the CDC, they were exposed to the virus before Mr. Duncan, Patient Zero, was diagnosed. In turn, the focus must now be on preparedness for hospitals around the country. Indeed, we must learn from the current situation at Texas Presbyterian and use any information we can gather to help better prepare other hospitals around the country. We are here today because we need answers to our questions about both the CDC’s and the Administration’s flawed responses. While I believe the CDC had protocols in place, it seems to me there was a breakdown in the communication between the CDC and hospitals around the country. This past August, the Inspector General at the Department of Homeland Security issued a report on personal protective equipment and antiviral medical countermeasures. They found that, and I quote, “The Department of Homeland Security did not adequately conduct a needs assessment prior to purchasing pandemic preparedness supplies and then did not effectively manage its stockpile of pandemic PPE and antiviral medical countermeasures.” This illustrates just how unprepared we may still be. Drugs companies are stating that they will have basic information on the efficacy of their drugs and vaccines by the end of the year. The end of the year is too late. We have been actively funding research on vaccinations and drug treatments for over a decade, but now the time to perform is now. When will these protocols be expedited? Relevant agencies have the statutory authority to quarantine and isolate individuals who are infected with or carrying an infectious communicable disease. Secretary Burwell has this authority which is enumerated in the Public Health Service Act. When will this authority be used? Numerous laws have been passed in the past decade to better prepare us for an outbreak of infectious illness, to increase coordination, and to fast- track drug development. The Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, Dr. Lurie, has been notably absent. I have a long-standing relationship with Texas Presbyterian. This crisis is in my back yard. I want to make sure we are doing everything in our power to stop Ebola. ###
10.08.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement after officials at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital confirmed the death of Thomas Eric Duncan share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement after officials at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital confirmed the death of Thomas Eric Duncan: “I am saddened to learn of the death of Mr. Duncan, the Texas Presbyterian patient in Dallas who had been fighting Ebola. This is a reminder of the dangerous and deadly nature of this disease. It also underscores why everyone involved in the Ebola response, both at home and abroad, must remain vigilant when it comes to rigorous infection control and exposure protocol.” ###
09.30.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement after officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed the first case of Ebola has been diagnosed in the United States at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas, Texas, just 35 miles from Burgess’ North Texas Congressional district: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement after officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed the first case of Ebola has been diagnosed in the United States at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas, Texas, just 35 miles from Burgess’ North Texas Congressional district: “Unfortunately, the inevitable has occurred. In this global age in which we live, this type of spread was very likely with an epidemic of this size and scope. The scale of this outbreak is unprecedented. More than 6,000 people are confirmed to be infected, and this number is known to be greatly underreported. While our country’s infection control capabilities and isolation techniques to contain the virus are strong, the seriousness of this virus and the ease with which it may be contracted makes intense vigilance in the monitoring of local contacts critical. “As a physician, I was concerned by this long before it was front page news and received numerous briefings with those tacking the outbreak, including the director of the CDC. I am concerned in particular with the disproportionate number of health care workers who were infected with this disease by working on the front lines. I was fully briefed on this specific situation just moments after the news broke, and I will remain in close contact with officials there in the coming weeks and months. “This is a grave situation that requires all hands on deck.” ###
09.26.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today announced that his legislation to improve care for patients with muscular dystrophy has been signed into public law. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today announced that his legislation to improve care for patients with muscular dystrophy has been signed into public law. H.R. 594, the Paul D. Wellstone Muscular Dystrophy Community Assistance, Research and Education Amendments of 2014, also known as the MD CARE Act, was enacted in 2001 and reauthorized in 2008. Burgess and other members of the House and Senate added amendments to further update and improve upon what was already successful legislation. “This is a true success story,” Burgess said. “In patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy alone, the MD CARE Act has increased the lifespan of patients by about 10 years on average. It has dramatically improved and standardized clinical care, which helps drive better patient outcomes.” The MD CARE Act is responsible for enhancing research efforts to focus on cardiac, pulmonary and other systems of importance to muscular dystrophy patients. It updates existing care standards and fills gaps to focus on how to properly care for muscular dystrophy patients and intensifies existing tracking of various forms of muscular dystrophy. Finally, it ensures this data informs the research agenda. “It was always my goal as a physician to help save lives and alleviate pain and suffering, and I wanted to continue to do that in my capacity as a member of Congress,” Burgess continued. “Seeing this important legislation become law, knowing it will significantly improve lives, is a victory for health care professionals, medical researchers and muscular dystrophy patients everywhere.” For more information, click here. ###
09.08.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following opening statement at a hearing titled “21st Century Cures: Examining the Regulation of Laboratory Developed Tests”: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following opening statement at a hearing titled “21st Century Cures: Examining the Regulation of Laboratory Developed Tests”: I have attended every Cures event in DC and several across the nation. Repeatedly we hear of the potential of genomic medicine to understand illness, quickly diagnosis it and target treatment. This has been embraced in a bipartisan manner. I strongly believe in this potential. Here’s an example: A few months ago, CDC briefed my staff on an emerging global health threat in the form of a virus. They had sequenced the virus, provided information to researchers and even knew where in the particular country’s jungle the virus originated. It was impressive to say the least. Here’s one more: Back in 2009, H1N1, a subtype of the Influenza A virus, spread rapidly. During the first week of the outbreak, 16 laboratories had LDTs that could identify H1N1 from other H1 viruses. Most results were available within 24 hours. The speed helped inform public health reactions. The FDA had no approved commercial kit. If they had, under the proposed framework – even if it was 15 years old and inferior – these LDTs would have been blocked from doctors and public health officials. FDA regulation of tests like these will be burdensome and will slow the ability of clinical laboratories to develop tests that can allow us to respond to public health crises. It is also duplicative – Congress already established a regulatory framework applicable to labs and laboratory testing, known as CLIA. However, I have conceded additional review of certain tests may be warranted. Previously, I introduced legislation to meet patient needs and ensure tests are accurate, reliable and clinically valid by making improvements to CLIA. I authored section 1143 of the Food Drug Safety & Innovation Act so we would be able to discuss how patients, the practice of medicine, innovation and the economy would all be harmed if FDA tried to fit LDTs into the misaligned definition of medical device. I fundamentally believe FDA has no statutory authority to regulate LDTs. For FDA to have jurisdiction, it must be a traditional device and be commercially distributed among states. LDTs do not fall under either category. Professional medical services are not regulated by FDA. If they start to be, we are effectively opening the door to the federal regulation of the practice of medicine. I adamantly reject and will vehemently oppose that notion. In addition to these significant jurisdictional issues, the process FDA is considering is of great concern. Even if the courts determined FDA authority over LDTs, the agency would need to amend its current regulations through rulemaking. The FDCA, the Administrative Procedures Act and the Supreme Court all require disseminating rules to modify current regulation or to create legally enforceable regulations. Instead, the FDA continues on its jurisdictional power grab by attacking innovation, threatening professional practice and risking countless jobs in order to claim authority over all they see. They are doing this even at the expense of allowing the core mission of the FDA to suffer as a consequence. I can’t think of a worse result: denying patients and doctors innovative tests while redirecting resources that could be used to approve the next miracle medical device or drug. I thank you for the hearing and yield. For more information on this hearing, click here. ###
08.18.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement in response to the indictment of Texas Governor Rick Perry for allegedly abusing his power by threatening to veto funding for a state anti-corruption unit after District Attorney Rosemary Lehmberg (D) refused to resign following her arrest for drunken driving: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement in response to the indictment of Texas Governor Rick Perry for allegedly abusing his power by threatening to veto funding for a state anti-corruption unit after District Attorney Rosemary Lehmberg (D) refused to resign following her arrest for drunken driving: “Governor Perry acted well within his rights by exercising veto power in direct response to criminal activities of a county district attorney. This indictment is intended to harm Perry’s career and reputation as he wraps up his tenure as our state’s longest serving Governor. Perry has served Texas well – our economy is booming, more businesses move to Texas from other locations around the country every month, and his response to the immigration crisis at our border shows leadership and integrity. It is time we focus on more important issues – like jobs and the economy – and commend Perry for the positive work he has done as Governor of Texas.” For more on this issue, click here. ###
08.01.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) on Thursday introduced legislation to supply the Ukrainian government with supplies and equipment to aid in their continued struggle against the Russian separatist army. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) on Thursday introduced legislation to supply the Ukrainian government with supplies and equipment to aid in their continued struggle against the Russian separatist army. Burgess, who serves on the Helsinki Commission and recently traveled to Ukraine, said it has become increasingly clear the Ukrainian army is in dire need of supplies. “The Obama administration has done nothing to help the Ukrainians when they need it most,” Burgess said. “We have yet to supply Ukraine with the requisite equipment, despite a request to do so by President Poroshenko. Ukraine is our ally; we need to start treating them as such. After all, a strong and free Ukraine is in the best interest of the United States.” The bill, H.R. 5315, would create a lend-lease program in which the U.S. government would lease specific military equipment and supplies that is coming back from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to Ukraine. The legislation states unequivocally that no part of this should be construed as an Authorization for Use of Military Force. “As the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan draw to a close, the equipment that was used is coming back to the U.S. in droves,” Burgess continued. “There would be no better use of these weapons and supplies than to lease them to those who are in dire need: the Ukrainian government.” ###
08.01.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today announced he will host two town hall meetings in the 26th District next week. They will be held on August 4 in Little Elm and August 5 in Trophy Club. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today announced he will host two town hall meetings in the 26th District next week. They will be held on August 4 in Little Elm and August 5 in Trophy Club. WHAT: Town Hall Meetings WHEN: Monday, August 4, 2014 and Tuesday, August 5, 2014 from 7-8:30 p.m. WHERE: MONDAY: Little Elm High School Auditorium -- 1900 Walker Lane, Little Elm, TX 75068 TUESDAY: Byron Nelson High School Auditorium – 2775 Bobcat Blvd., Trophy Club, TX 76262 Dr. Burgess will discuss what he has been working on in Congress and answer questions from constituents. More information may be found on Dr. Burgess’ official website homepage at www.burgess.house.gov. ###
07.31.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today responded to the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) notification to Congress that it will release draft guidance to regulate laboratory developed tests (LDTs) with the following statement: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today responded to the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) notification to Congress that it will release draft guidance to regulate laboratory developed tests (LDTs) with the following statement: “Applying FDA’s regulatory approach to LDTs is redundant, will stifle innovation and will require additional taxpayer funding for the FDA. To the extent concerns about ‘higher-risk’ tests exist; these can be addressed at no cost to the government through a modernization of The Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA). “Given the negative impact these policies – if pursued – could have on innovation, I am glad I was able to secure this notification requirement within the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012. LDTs are not medical device products sold through interstate commerce. They are services provided only to the ordering healthcare provider and offered only by labs that validate and develop them. Professional medical services are not regulated by FDA. More importantly, the question of agency jurisdiction over LDTs has never been legally clarified. LDTs neither constitute “medical devices” nor are commercially distributed among states – both requirements for FDA jurisdiction under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). “FDA is the subject of much criticism from industry groups who are already under their jurisdiction. As such, they are overburdened and take too long to approve products, which increases uncertainty for companies and negatively impacts innovation, as well as patient access to new treatments and devices. If LDTs were regulated as medical devices by FDA, it would significantly tax an already overtaxed agency and stifle access to these important tests. “The Energy & Commerce Committee is continuing to develop the 21st Century Cures initiative and explore how we can encourage innovation. We are also looking into ways to increase our ability to detect, treat and cure disease. I fear today’s move by the FDA moves in the opposite direction and I look forward to raising this issue often in the coming months.” Burgess’ provision within the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012 ensured that FDA would have to give Congress 60 days’ notice and a full description before enacting regulations such as this one. For more information, click here. ###
07.30.2014	Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) today introduced the Living Donor Protection Act, a bill to promote organ donation and protect the rights of living organ donors. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) today introduced the Living Donor Protection Act, a bill to promote organ donation and protect the rights of living organ donors. “Every year, thousands of living Americans donate kidneys, livers, and other organs to save the lives of family members, friends, and complete strangers struggling with chronic, life-threatening illnesses,” the Congressmen said. “Organ donation cuts health care costs as much as two-thirds by reducing the need for dialysis and other expensive medical interventions to treat chronic illnesses. Yet, after taking this heroic step to save a life, living organ donors may unfortunately face discrimination when they try to take medical leave or buy insurance. Our bill would address that injustice.” The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) does not specify that living organ donors can take unpaid leave to recover from their donation and does not guarantee that donors will have a job waiting for them after surgery. Further, according to a 2007 study in the American Journal of Transplantation, as many as 11% of living organ donors experience difficulty securing or paying for insurance after their procedures because of discriminatory practices. The Living Donor Protection Act would promote organ donation and protect living organ donors in three ways: 1) Prohibits life, disability, and long term care insurance companies from denying or limiting coverage and from charging higher premiums for living organ donors; 2) Clarifies that living organ donors may use FMLA time to recover from the surgeries and procedures involved in their donation; and 3) Directs HHS to update their materials on live organ donation to reflect these new protections and encourage more individuals to consider donating an organ “Rather than putting roadblocks in the way of living organ donation, Congress should encourage more individuals to become living donors and protect the rights of those donors to receive the insurance and medical leave they need,” the Congressmen added. The bill has support from numerous groups that advocate on behalf of organ transplantation. “The National Kidney Foundation commends Congressmen Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) and Michael Burgess (R-TX) for their leadership in expanding opportunities for living organ donation that will ultimately help reduce the national shortage of organs,” Bruce Skyer, National Kidney Foundation (NKF) Chief Executive Officer, said. “NKF has long-advocated for additional protections for living donors, including prohibitions against denial of coverage or charging higher premiums for life insurance, disability insurance or long-term care insurance. NKF has also maintained that people should be able to donate an organ without fear of losing their jobs. The additional protections under the Family and Medical Leave Act contained in this proposed legislation will enable more people to give the gift of life by donating their kidneys. The NKF is grateful for Congressman Nadler’s living donation efforts and for Congressman Burgess’s ongoing leadership on transplant initiatives.” “Living donors should not have to worry about or suffer financial loss as a result of their benevolence,” Dr. David Reich, chairman of the American Society of Transplant Surgeons (ASTS) Legislative Committee, said. Dr. Alan Langnas, ASTS President, noted, “The Living Donor Protection Act of 2014 represents another important step toward the full removal of financial disincentives for living organ donors. Representatives Nadler and Burgess are championing sensible legislation and we wholeheartedly support their efforts.” “Living organ donation, the gift of a healthy organ given to a patient with kidney, lung or liver failure, is simply an amazing act of human kindness and part of the miracle of transplantation,” American Society of Transplantation(AST) President Dr. Daniel Salomon, M.D., from the Scripps Center for Organ Transplantation. said. “The Living Donor Protection Act of 2014 supports the future of this form of organ donation by considering the special needs of the living donors and protecting their best interests while they are making this wonderful gift to another human being in need. The American Society of Transplantation (AST) applauds the leadership of Congressmen Jerrold Nadler and Michael Burgess for introducing this important and necessary organ donor protection legislation.” “NATCO is very pleased to have Congressmen Burgess’and Nadler’s continued understanding and support of organ donation and transplantation issues made even more apparent through the introduction of this legislation,” Organization for Transplant Professionals (NATCO) President Carrie Lindower said. “It will eliminate the punishment of denied coverage and increased premiums living donors too often receive for simply wishing to give the gift of life. Additionally, it further supports living donors by making organ donation surgery a part of the Family Medical Leave Act as it should be.” “I strongly support Congressmen Jerrold Nadler’s and Michael Burgess’s Living Donor Protection Act of 2014,” David Cohen, chairman of the Public Policy Committee within the American Society of Transplantation (AST) said. “This is a common sense approach to protect and promote the gift of living organ donation here at Columbia University Medical Center and around the nation.” ###
07.24.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today signed on to a letter to President Obama asking him to address the current national security and humanitarian crisis on the Texas border. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today signed on to a letter to President Obama asking him to address the current national security and humanitarian crisis on the Texas border. In the letter, which was signed by the entire Texas Republican delegation, the members wrote that only the president has the authority to stop the surge of illegal immigration by minors by enforcing current immigration laws. The members asked President Obama to take five actions: suspend his Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) executive order, end the policy that gives convicted criminal immigrants a free pass into the U.S., improve cooperation with local law enforcement agencies, crack down on immigration fraud and expedite the processing and removal illegal immigrants who are apprehended on the border. “Your administration has used existing laws as an excuse for your failure to end the national security and humanitarian crisis on our southern border,” the members wrote. “However, the majority of immigrants apprehended at the border during this crisis can be legally repatriated immediately. Instead, you have permitted almost all to remain in the United States, further encouraging illegal immigration.” Taking the five actions described in the letter will “save lives and discourage those you have enticed to enter illegally through your current policies,” the members concluded. Burgess has been active on the issue of unaccompanied children on the Texas border. He traveled to Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio to tour the facility holding the recent immigrants in June, and traveled to McAllen, Texas to tour the border and intake facility. As a physician, he has expressed concern about the health and cost of care for these minors and has repeatedly called on President Obama to strengthen his position on this issue and visit the border himself. Last week, he introduced legislation that would direct the president to reduce foreign aid from Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador and Mexico by $15,000 per child who originated from that particular country. A copy of the letter may be found here. ###
07.21.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), a member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (the U.S. Helsinki Commission) joined the Commission in calling for unfettered access to the crash site of the Malaysian Airlines MH17, which is territory controlled by separatists in Ukraine. The members said this access will allow for the establishment of responsibility for the killings and will bring justice when said parties are held accountable. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), a member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (the U.S. Helsinki Commission) joined the Commission in calling for unfettered access to the crash site of the Malaysian Airlines MH17, which is territory controlled by separatists in Ukraine. The members said this access will allow for the establishment of responsibility for the killings and will bring justice when said parties are held accountable. “The downing of Malaysian Air flight 17 is an unspeakable tragedy. It did not have to happen and those responsible must be held accountable,” Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, said. “As we mourn for those lost and share our heartfelt prayers with the victims' families, I encourage international efforts to establish what happened and who was responsible. In particular, I welcome the efforts and courage of the OSCE’s Special Monitoring Mission team which has made its way to the crash site. I am extremely disappointed to learn that they were forced to depart after a mere 75 minutes due to aggression by the Moscow-sponsored separatists. "This heinous crime is a direct consequence of Russia’s unjustified aggression in Ukraine which began with the annexation of Crimea nearly five months ago and has continued in two regions in eastern Ukraine, in violation of OSCE and other international norms. It is a direct result of Putin’s destabilization of Ukraine. The top three leaders of the so-called Donetsk People’s Republic are all Russian citizens, and two of them are Russian intelligence operatives," Cardin continued. “Russia has continued to sponsor these terrorists with heavy weapons, equipment and men continuing to flow across the Russian border into Ukraine. If Russian involvement is confirmed, serious consideration needs to be given to designating the Donetsk People’s Republic a Foreign Terrorist Organization and the Russian Federation a State Sponsor of Terrorism.” Representative Chris Smith (NJ-04), co-chairman of the Commission, said, “Our hearts go out to the family and friends of the 298 innocent victims, including 80 children, who perished, likely at the hands of Russian operatives. I urge the President to vigorously work for full access for identification and removal of victims’ remains, and international investigation. The entire area should be treated as a crime scene as the plane appears to have been shot down by a surface-to-air missile launched from a separatist-controlled area. This follows a pattern of actions where the rebels have shot down Ukrainian military planes and helicopters, most recently a Ukrainian military cargo plane earlier this week, for which they took credit.” “I am profoundly saddened and outraged at the senseless loss of innocent civilians on Malaysian Airlines Flight 17,” Burgess said. “I am extremely disturbed by the lack of access for international observers and first responders and by reports of looting and of people contaminating the crash site. Not only must we be able to conduct a proper investigation, but the remains of the victims must be treated properly and with the utmost respect. I am also troubled by reports that there may be other efforts by the separatists and Russian authorities to cover up what really happened.” Burgess recently traveled to Ukraine to monitor their elections. More information may be found here and here. ### The Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the U.S. Helsinki Commission, is an independent agency of the Federal Government charged with monitoring compliance with the Helsinki Accords and advancing comprehensive security through promotion of human rights, democracy, and economic, environmental and military cooperation in 57 countries. The Commission consists of nine members from the U.S. Senate, nine from the House of Representatives, and one member each from the Departments of State, Defense, and Commerce.
07.21.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) last week introduced a bill that would help the United States better handle the rising cost of the tens of thousands of unaccompanied minors who are crossing into the United States from Central America. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) last week introduced a bill that would help the United States better handle the rising cost of the tens of thousands of unaccompanied minors who are crossing into the United States from Central America. The Unaccompanied Alien Children Assistance Control Act, H.R. 5141, would direct the president to reduce foreign aid from Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador and Mexico by $15,000 per child who originated from that particular country. The money saved by this bill could then be redirected to assist states with the rising costs of these children, as well as aid in border security efforts. “President Obama’s open door policy on immigration has resulted in a huge strain on our system,” Burgess said. “With the number of unaccompanied immigrant children crossing into the U.S. expected to grow to six figures by next year, it is clear that something must be done to offset the tremendous cost that this crisis on our border is costing Texans and citizen of other states. The U.S. already gives generously in foreign aid to these countries, but we cannot continue to do so if our limited resources are dedicated to caring for these migrant children who have been sent to our country illegally. This bill is an important first step in dealing with the crisis that is before us in a common sense way.” Burgess has been active on the issue of unaccompanied children on the Texas border. He traveled to Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio to tour the facility holding the recent immigrants in June, and travelled to McAllen, Texas to tour the border and intake facility. As a physician, he has expressed concern about the health and cost of care for these minors and has repeatedly called on President Obama to strengthen his position on this issue and visit the border himself. ###
07.16.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today issued the following statement regarding the recent breach of safety at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta and the subsequent Committee investigation into the matter: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today issued the following statement regarding the recent breach of safety at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta and the subsequent Committee investigation into the matter: “The Centers for Disease Control plays a vital role in protecting Americans from dangerous outbreaks and bioterrorism threats. They are who the world turns to during a public health crisis. That is why it is all the more upsetting that a breach of safety occurred that could have harmed our finest medical researchers and scientists, who work tirelessly to protect the public from exposure of harmful pathogens. “Despite the potential for danger involved, it is clear the CDC is taking the right steps to remedy this situation. They have created a high-level working group that reports directly to the CDC director. They have also suspended the transfer of biological materials until they can once again do so safely. But they must remain vigilant; this issue cannot be swept under the rug. “That is why, when the exposure occurred in late June, I called for a Committee investigation into the matter. Indeed, the purpose of the Energy and Commerce Committee is to protect consumers and reduce public harm. We must continue to hold the CDC to the high standards we always have. “Since more and more reports continue to surface indicating improper handling of biological materials, I urge the CDC to view this as more that a wakeup call, but a fire alarm that deserves serious attention.” Burgess noted back in June that this issue deserves a congressional hearing. His remarks may be found here. More information on today’s hearing may be found here. ###
07.16.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) will join Congresswomen Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) in discussing new legislation to encourage greater fiscal accountability and transparency at the Pentagon by imposing a 0.5% penalty for unauditable units while protecting funding for personnel and critical national security needs. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) will join Congresswomen Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) in discussing new legislation to encourage greater fiscal accountability and transparency at the Pentagon by imposing a 0.5% penalty for unauditable units while protecting funding for personnel and critical national security needs. The members will join Grover Norquist for a press conference tomorrow to introduce the bill. WHEN: Thursday, July 17, 2014, 9 a.m. ET WHERE: House Triangle WHO: Congressman Michael Burgess (R-TX), Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittees on Health and Oversight & Investigations, and member of the House Rules Committee; Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), member of the House Appropriations and Budget Committees; Grover Norquist, founder and president of Americans for Tax Reform, and Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. ###
07.16.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), a member of the House Committee on Rules, today issued the following statement in reaction to today’s hearing to discuss a lawsuit against President Obama for his failure to enforce provisions of the Affordable Care Act: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), a member of the House Committee on Rules, today issued the following statement in reaction to today’s hearing to discuss a lawsuit against President Obama for his failure to enforce provisions of the Affordable Care Act: “Today’s hearing was the first step in a deliberative process of determining whether or not the House of Representatives will move forward with litigation against the president for his failure to enforce key aspects of his health law. “While there are numerous examples of President Obama acting unilaterally and unlawfully, his delay of the employer mandate is the most straight forward example of his overreach and, therefore, the example that has the best chance of standing in a court of law. Today, we heard from a panel of distinguished legal experts from across the political spectrum. It is my hope they will guide us as we work through this process. “This is uncharted territory and thus a novel concept. One body of one branch of government has never before sued another in a court of law. Today’s hearing was a fact finding expedition to hear legal theories that would allow such a suit. “President Obama has made the Affordable Care Act his signature achievement. He campaigned on it. He wrote it. He signed it into law. And he defended it to the courts. For him to then turn his back on a core provision of it is surprising, unfair and harmful to American employers and families. But simply put, it is also illegal. By circumventing Congress and cherry picking which parts he chooses to enforce, he is legislating without the legislative branch. “I disagree wholeheartedly with the heath care law. I oppose the employer mandate because I think it is harmful to American businesses, insurers, doctors, patients and hospitals. But I still maintain that using this example of the president’s overreach is the best opportunity we will have to keep the powers of the executive branch in check and prevent erosion of our bicameral system of government. It is the duty of the People’s House, and I plan to do my part as a member of that body. And as Abraham Lincoln said, ‘the best way to end a bad law is to enforce it strictly.’” For more information on today’s hearing and the lawsuit, click here. ###
07.11.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) today announced he will host the 2014 Energy Summit and Fair on Saturday, July 12, at the University of North Texas’ Discovery Park Campus. Local and state officials, as well as industry experts and businesses, will attend and speak at the summit and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient while saving on their energy costs. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) today announced he will host the 2014 Energy Summit and Fair on Saturday, July 12, at the University of North Texas’ Discovery Park Campus. Local and state officials, as well as industry experts and businesses, will attend and speak at the summit and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient while saving on their energy costs. The Energy Summit will bring together local leaders and industry experts to highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient and reduce their energy costs. In addition, there will also be a fair with booths providing energy-related information and resources, as well as displays featuring fuel efficient vehicles and a solar powered competition car. “We must all do our part to become more energy efficient and strive for an energy independent America,” Burgess said. “I invite you to join me as I bring together experts to discuss our country’s energy agenda, including the future of energy in America, ways Texas has lead the nation in many types of renewable energies and how recent federal policies will impact Texas.” 2014 Energy Summit & Fair Saturday, July 12, 2014 8:00 a.m. to 12 noon University of North Texas • Discovery Park 3940 N. Elm Street • Denton, TX 76207 ####
07.10.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), a member of the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Energy and Power, today introduced an amendment to an annual spending bill that would ensure the federal government cannot mandate the type of light bulbs Americans choose to buy for their homes. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), a member of the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Energy and Power, today introduced an amendment to an annual spending bill that would ensure the federal government cannot mandate the type of light bulbs Americans choose to buy for their homes. The amendment was included in the Fiscal Year 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, H.R. 4923, which will be voted on later today. Burgess’ amendment has been accepted for the past three years by voice vote and has been included in the annual appropriations legislation signed by President Obama each year since its first inclusion in 2010. “With the extreme expansion of federal powers undertaken by the Obama administration and congressional Democrats, Americans have realized just how far the Constitution’s commerce clause has been manipulated from its original intent,” Burgess said. “The light bulb mandate is the perfect example of this. The founding fathers never intended the commerce clause to be used to allow the federal government to regulate and pass mandates on consumer products that do not pose a threat to either human health or safety.” The Department of Energy included language in the 2007 Energy Independence Security Act that would take away consumer choice as it pertains to which light bulbs consumers may buy. This amendment would ban the federal government from doing this. “The bottom line is that the federal government has no business taking away the freedom of Americans to choose what light bulbs they purchase for their own homes,” Burgess said. The text of this amendment may be found here. ###
07.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at a hearing titled, “21st Century Cures: Modernizing Clinical Trials”: “This country has set the gold standard for clinical trials; specifically, the rigorous investigative approach we require. “However, that does not mean the bar cannot be raised to keep up with emerging science and new techniques in investigational review. “Failure to adapt could turn what was once considered the standard of excellence in regulation into an antiquated and out of touch system with the field it applies. “One needs look no further than personalized medicine and the human genome for an example of this. We are approaching a time when treatments could be tailored for a person’s specific genetic code. “There is no way such a revolutionary approach to treatment could be evaluated in the same way as a single molecule drug meant for large populations. “I appreciate the subcommittee asking the question: How can we build in more flexibility and innovation into the trials process so that these just-over-the-horizon therapies can make their way to patients? “While these changes must always ultimately retain the integrity needed to ensure the end product is safe and effective, we cannot be caught off guard and risk watching innovative therapies suffocate at the hands of a regulatory system that has not kept up.” ###
07.02.2014	As Independence Day approaches, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. share: f t Washington, D.C. – As Independence Day approaches, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. “Our nation’s veterans have proudly and honorably served our country and preserved our freedom, and it is because of their service that we enjoy all the liberties we are afforded,” Burgess said. “These brave men and women deserve our thanks and praise, and I am proud to recognize the veterans in Texas’ 26th Congressional District and honor their service through the 2014 Congressional Veteran Commendation.” To nominate a veteran for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation, please fill out the nomination form, which can be found on Congressman Burgess’ website at http://burgess.house.gov. The deadline for submitting nominations is September 15, 2014. The completed nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, should be submitted to Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville office. To be eligible for nomination, veterans must be currently residing in the 26th District of Texas, have served the nation honorably during their military career and subsequently demonstrated dedication to their community. Those individuals selected to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation will be recognized and honored at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association on November 11, 2014. An in-depth interview will be conducted with commendees, and that interview will be forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection. For more information regarding the project, visit the Library of Congress’ website. To obtain additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the 26th District of Texas, please contact Congressman Burgess’ Deputy District Director, Robin Vaughan, at (972) 434-9700 or visit Congressman Burgess’ website. ###
06.30.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court's 5-4 decision in the Burwell v. Hobby Lobby case that for-profit employers with religious objections may opt out of the contraception mandate under the Affordable Care Act share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court's 5-4 decision in the Burwell v. Hobby Lobby case that for-profit employers with religious objections may opt out of the contraception mandate under the Affordable Care Act. “Today’s Supreme Court decision in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby affirms the core principle that the government cannot compel the people it is meant to represent – even when those people own a private business – to violate their sincere religious beliefs. The Obama Administration, with the help of Democrats in congress, went out of its way to impose as many mandates on the American people through its health care law as possible. The Supreme Court today rejected a signature piece of the president’s health care law, and refused to allow the government to force business owners to violate their beliefs. It is an important step in reaffirming our country’s First Amendment protections of religious freedom that serve as one of the founding principles of our nation.” Burgess currently serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health and founded and serves as Co-Chairman of the Health Caucus. ###
06.20.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) today announced the students from the 26th District of Texas who have accepted appointments to the United States Service Academies. Academies that the students will be attending include the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY, and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. "I was pleased to nominate outstanding young men and women who will be the future leaders of our Armed Forces and America,” Congressman Burgess said. “I am even more delighted and grateful that these future leaders have accepted this challenge to serve their country." Recently, Congressman Burgess honored these young people at a reception hosted by the City of Denton, the Denton Airport and the Denton Airshow. He presented the appointees with a Special Certificate of Congressional Recognition and an American flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their appointments. Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are rigorously evaluated on a variety of criteria including academic performance, leadership qualifications and physical preparedness. Appointments to an academy must be preceded by a nomination from a Member of Congress, Academy Superintendent, the Vice President or a military connected nomination. The exception is to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, where a nomination is not required for consideration, but appointments are based upon a competitive nationwide admissions process. Special guests at the reception were U.S. Congressman Sam Graves (MO-6) and several 2014 West Point graduates, including U.S. Army 2nd Lieutenants Donald LeBlanc of The Colony and Damon Paulo of Keller. Those students from the 26th Congressional District entering the service academies are: U.S. Military Academy James Callan (Flower Mound) Brendan McGuire (Flower Mound) Blaise Paulo (Keller) Nicholas Shelton (Keller) Micky Willis (Frisco) U.S. Naval Academy Matthew Goodpaster (Argyle) Hawk Griffin (Little Elm) Brandon Jones (Keller) Austin Rhodes (Keller) Jordan Simmons (Keller) Brady Whitfield (Roanoke) U.S. Air Force Academy Jennie Bruggeman (Keller) Katie Burnham (Roanoke) Madison Charland (Keller) Benn Hawkins (Argyle) Hunter Morrow (Fort Worth) Trey Pujats (Keller) U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Briana Buderus (Flower Mound) Andrew Guidry (Little Elm) U.S. Coast Guard Academy Ryan Dandan (Trophy Club) John Groen (Denton) Greg Wilcox (Lake Dallas) Photo: Pictured at the Denton Airport in front of the P-51D Mustang "Pecos Bill" owned by Cowden Ward of the “Freedom Flyers” organization. CLICK HERE FOR PHOTO. (L-R): Katie Burnham, Hunter Morrow, James Callan, Matthew Goodpaster, Madison Charland, Benn Hawkins, Congressman Michael Burgess, Austin Rhodes, Congressman Sam Graves, Trey Pujats, Micky Willis, Jennie Bruggeman, 2nd LT Donald LeBlanc, Brady Whitfield, Blaise Paulo. ###
06.18.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today issued the following statement in response to today’s hearing, “The GM Ignition Switch Recall: Investigation Update”: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today issued the following statement in response to today’s hearing, “The GM Ignition Switch Recall: Investigation Update”: “The report on General Motors’ internal investigation of the ignition switch recall is deeply troubling. However, maybe the most concerning aspect of the report is the simple recognition that while everyone at GM had responsibility to fix the problem, no one took responsibility. That is unacceptable for one of America’s flagship companies and one that millions of people rely on every day. “I was pleased that Ms. Barra and Mr. Valukas were forthcoming with information today in our hearing. The Valukas report is a start, because the first step to solving a problem is identifying it. Now that the problem is identified, it is my hope that GM will heed the advice of the recommendations provided so that this never happens again. The 13 deaths that resulted from this must not be in vain.” ###
06.12.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at a hearing titled, “The President’s Health Care Law Does Not Equal Health Care Access”: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at a hearing titled, “The President’s Health Care Law Does Not Equal Health Care Access”: “We heard it time and time again from President Obama: If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. If you like your health plan, you can keep your health plan. That refrain sounded great on the stump, but it’s proven to be a complete lie. “The Affordable Care Act cancels the policy patients want and mandates what they instead must buy. This comes at a cost. “The ACA overly constricts the health insurance marketplace. It limits choice by imposing hundreds of benefit mandates. This leads to higher costs. “States like California have imposed even greater restrictions on choice. As a result, they are facing some of the most limited networks and highest out-of-pocket costs for prescription drugs in the country. “Millions of health plans have been canceled because of these government-imposed restrictions. Worse yet, plans sold on health insurance exchanges are leaving people functionally uninsured. Patients are being subjected to higher and higher deductibles and other out-of-pocket costs. They now lack critical access to their doctors and vital prescription medication. “I know these problems all too well. I did not buy into the Washington exemption for Members of Congress, and purchased my own health insurance through Texas’ health insurance exchange. This is the same place many of my constituents must buy their insurance now. My current plan has a $6,000 deductible and does not cover some of my medications. “This law also negatively impacts those most in need of care. I’m talking about individuals with severe medical needs like pediatric oncology patients. Many of the nation’s leading cancer centers and pediatric hospitals are not included in the provider networks of Exchange plans. And access to necessary specialty drugs often comes at a tremendous cost. “Analysts have found that the cost of just one dose of some specialty medicines could eat up a third of an enrollee’s monthly income, even for so-called high-value plans with lower cost-sharing. “Texas is home to some of the world’s best medical centers. The state’s cancer and transplant centers like MD Anderson, Baylor University Medical Center and Texas Children’s Hospital treat patients all over the country. Yet these centers are generally included in less than half of the plans offered on the Texas health insurance exchange. “There is also widespread physician uncertainty about whether having existing contracts with insurers means that they're already included in an Exchange plan network. As a physician, I know this can lead to confusion for both doctors and their patients. “This is just another example of how the Affordable Care Act hurts patients, doctors, and is a strain on our economy. “This Committee should strive to hold the President to his word and ensure that patients have the ability to keep their doctor and their choice of insurance. The only way to do this is by rescinding burdensome laws and regulations.” ###
06.12.2014	Washington, D.C. – The House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health today held a hearing to examine how “The President’s Health Care Law Does Not Equal Health Care Access.” Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts(R-PA) noted that the president’s repeated promise of “If you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your doctor, period,” remains on WhiteHouse.gov, despite the fact that it is widely agreed that the president would never be able to uphold this promise under this law. share: f t Washington, D.C. – The House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health today held a hearing to examine how “The President’s Health Care Law Does Not Equal Health Care Access.” Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts(R-PA) noted that the president’s repeated promise of “If you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your doctor, period,” remains on WhiteHouse.gov, despite the fact that it is widely agreed that the president would never be able to uphold this promise under this law. As Scott Gottlieb, M.D., Resident Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute explained, “Coverage doesn’t necessarily equal access. … Just giving someone health care coverage doesn’t necessarily guarantee that they are going to get care.” Gottlieb added, “Americans who sign up for insurance under the Affordable Care Act are finding many of these plans offer very narrow options when it comes to their choice of doctors and drugs. Some observers argue the insurance business tactics resulting in these narrow benefits are not unique to the ACA plans. But this isn’t entirely true. The rules embedded in the ACA made these very restrictive drug formularies and narrow provider networks almost inevitable, and certainly far more prevalent. It popularized these approaches, and made them politically acceptable.” Full committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) explained, “Analyses have shown that, in order to comply with the law’s many taxes and mandates, provider networks have necessarily been limited. But, it is the sickest Americans who are being hurt the most. Patients with cancer, HIV/AIDS, multiple sclerosis, and autoimmune diseases who are purchasing silver plans through the health care exchanges are facing coinsurance rates often as high as 40 percent of the cost of their drug. On average, patients are paying 130 percent more in out-of-pocket costs for medicines in silver plans on the health care exchanges when compared to employer-sponsored coverage.” Pitts commented, “A constituent from Conestoga, PA, wrote to me that after her policy of nearly 30 years was cancelled last fall because it was not fully ACA-compliant, she was unable to find a new exchange plan which included her doctors in its network. Her OB-GYN, whom she had been seeing since 1989, and her gastroenterologist are now out-of-network.” Vice Chairman of the Health and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittees Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) added, “Plans sold on health insurance exchanges are leaving people functionally uninsured. … Many of the nation’s leading cancer centers and pediatric hospitals are not included in the provider networks of exchange plans. And access to necessary specialty drugs often comes at a tremendous cost.” ###
06.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – A new report by the Government Accountability Office found that the Department of Energy did not follow the law and lost taxpayer money when it conducted several transfers of uranium worth hundreds of millions of dollars to the U.S. Enrichment Corporation, known as USEC, which still could not prevent the company from closing its Kentucky facility and declaring bankruptcy. The report, released today and requested by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) also said that DOE erratically assessed the value of nuclear material used to make reactor fuel, which potentially cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. The report details a pattern of actions by DOE that kept USEC’s facility in Paducah, Kentucky open and subsidized the development of questionable centrifuge technology at its Ohio facility, even as the company was rated as junk bond status, threatened with de-listing from the New York Stock Exchange, and ultimately spiraled into bankruptcy. Congress had privatized USEC in the 1990s to eliminate the U.S. government from the uranium enrichment business, but as the company’s technology and finances grew more precarious, its eligibility to receive a $2 billion taxpayer-backed loan guarantee disappeared, as did Congress’s willingness to write a blank check. That is when DOE engaged in several transactions that failed to follow applicable laws and procedures, did not properly value the material to protect taxpayers and did not succeed in keeping the facility alive. “For the past decade, the Department of Energy has turned a blind eye to how its actions have deeply hurt the livelihoods of so many uranium workers in western states,” Burgess, who sits on the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Energy and Power, said. “Americans place their trust in the U.S. government to act in their best interest, and DOE has abused that trust by taking hard-earned tax dollars and wasting them on this project in a way that was careless and, indeed, illegal. I commend GAO for its non-partisan and diligent work, and for calling out DOE for acting without authority and for breaking the law.” “Our government has kept this uranium company on life support, wasting money and flouting the law, even though it was clear that it would end up in bankruptcy,” Markey, a member of the Environment and Public Works Committee said. “This is the kind of government waste that Americans just don’t understand. It’s time to commit this junk technology to the junk bin.” The GAO report, which can be found HERE, had several key findings, which include: --GAO identified legal concerns with every single uranium transactions between DOE and USEC in 2012 and 2013, violating the USEC Privatization Act and the Atomic Energy Act. --Taxpayers lost $9 million in one of the transactions when DOE undercharged USEC for transferred uranium. --One transaction kept the Kentucky facility open for an additional year by transferring hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of uranium through a complicated series of contracts that DOE cannot enforce or oversee. --GAO found that DOE does not have guidance for determining the value of some leftover uranium, called “tails”, which means DOE values these leftovers anywhere from $0 to $300 million, leaving huge questions about how much taxpayers may have lost in these transactions. - GAO found shortcomings in the market impact studies used by DOE to satisfy the legal requirement that it determine uranium transfers would not adversely impact the domestic uranium market. DOE also accepted the studies’ conclusions that the larger uranium transfers it planned would not harm the U.S. industry without consulting the U.S. industry. An additional summary document of the report prepared by Senator Markey’s staff can be found HERE. GAO is expected to release a second report responding to the request from Senator Markey and Rep. Burgess to investigate USEC. ####
05.30.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today introduced legislation that would expand the use of Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), which allow Americans to put aside money for themselves and their children to help mitigate the rising cost of deductibles and out-of-pocket healthcare expenses. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today introduced legislation that would expand the use of Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), which allow Americans to put aside money for themselves and their children to help mitigate the rising cost of deductibles and out-of-pocket healthcare expenses. Current law only allows HSAs to be purchased for certain health insurance plans, and contributions are restricted to levels that are often substantially lower than deductibles. The Health Savings Act of 2014, H.R. 4777, would ensure HSAs may be used more broadly, thereby increasing patient choice in how their healthcare dollars are spent. “One of the most fundamental criticisms of the President’s health law is that it robs Americans from freedom of choice in their healthcare,” Burgess said. “This bill would be a small but important step towards giving people back those freedoms.” In addition to making HSAs more accessible, the bill allows parents to set up an HSA for their child, while allowing the contributor to claim an after-tax deduction. Further, the bill raises the contribution limit to match the maximum out-of-pocket limit. Finally, the Health Savings Act provides bankruptcy protections to HSAs in the same way retirement accounts are currently protected. “I believe that the federal government should not punish someone for going bankrupt by taking away the money he or she has diligently saved for their healthcare,” Burgess said. Burgess acknowledged Dr. Ben Carson as an inspiration for this legislation. “The most important advantage of an HSA is personal empowerment,” Carson said. “When you control your healthcare dollars, you decide which doctors you see, what care to get, and at what price. Expanding HSAs is not the only solution to saving our healthcare, but it is a big step in the right directions because HSAs put the most important person in control of your healthcare – you.” Burgess currently serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health and founded as serves as Co-Chairman of the Health Caucus. ###
05.26.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) participated in the international mission to monitor the presidential election in Ukraine. share: f t Kyiv, Ukriane – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) participated in the international mission to monitor the presidential election in Ukraine. On Sunday, May 25, sixteen million Ukrainians voted in the election, widely seen as charting a new course for the country, independent from a Russian sphere of influence, and deepening its commitment to democracy and the rule of law. “The U.S. is committed to Ukrainian independence and democracy,” Burgess said. “The overwhelming majority of the Ukrainian people have chosen this path, and in recent months they have shown themselves willing to pay the price. Yesterday they held a free and fair election – this was imperative for the country’s future. The Ukrainians’ determination and courage on the Maidan and in organizing this election in the face of Russian threats recalls the Polish Solidarity movement in the 1980s and the East Germans that brought down the Berlin Wall.” Burgess participated in the monitoring mission organized by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which fielded over 100 observers. This monitoring mission was a joint effort with other European parliamentary bodies. The joint observation mission issued its preliminary findings at a press conference on Monday, May 26. “This election proved the democratic spirit of the people of Ukraine, who had the opportunity to genuinely express their will at the ballot box, and seized it in high numbers,” João Soares, the Special Co-ordinator who led the short-term OSCE observer mission, said. “The electoral and security authorities of Ukraine should be commended for their efforts – under extraordinary circumstances – to facilitate an election that largely upheld democratic commitments.” “We visited 17 polling stations in the Kyiv vicinity, checked voter lists, and looked for signs of ballot stuffing or intimidation,” Burgess said. “I didn’t see any irregularities and can concur with the OSCE’s findings. The general atmosphere was serious, and the turnout was high, and, as an American Congressman, I was very welcome at polling stations. The Ukrainians saw my presence as a sign of support for their country – and that was exactly what it was intended to be.” On May 24, Rep. Burgess and other American officials met with the Ukrainian Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, raising issues of potential U.S. energy exports to Ukraine and Ukraine’s efforts to re-unite families divided by the Russian occupation of Crimea. In recent months the new Ukrainian government has sought to establish a close relationship with the U.S. government. “The Prime Minister has shown himself friendly to the United States – he explained how Russia has been a destabilizing force, and emotion was palpable in his voice as he described the situation on the ground in his country,” Burgess said. “I believe that we should support efforts to create a more independent and democratic Ukraine, free of corruption. It will be an important friend of the U.S., a country with which our government can cooperate on international security and with which our companies can do business.” Burgess and the U.S. delegation had additional consultations with U.S. officials and civil society on issues of energy trade and security. Burgess led the U.S. House of Representatives delegation to the election, consisting of himself and Congressman Steve Stockman (TX-9). Other U.S. election monitors included Senators Ben Cardin (MD), Robert Portman (OH), Kelly Ayotte (NH), and Congressman Peter Roskam (IL-6). ###
05.22.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement after voting against the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 3361), which would reform the National Security Agency’s program of collecting American phone records: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today issued the following statement after voting against the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 3361), which would reform the National Security Agency’s program of collecting American phone records: “I have been a strong supporter of legislation that would curtail the abuse of American civil liberties by the Obama Administration’s National Security Agency. In fact, I supported H.R. 3361 as it was originally written: to rein in the dragnet collection of data by the NSA, increase transparency, provide businesses the ability to release information regarding the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) and create and independent constitutional advocate to argue cases before the FISC. “I have a long history of supporting legislation that protects American civil liberties. However, the bill that came before the House today was not the same as the one I originally cosponsored. I believed it did not go far enough in achieving its goal to protect average Americans from being spied on by their government. I felt that the particulars of this bill came up so fast there was not adequate time to evaluate it. As a consequence, I could not support it. “It is the job of the Congress to protect American citizens’ constitutional rights, as well as protect our country from terrorist attacks. Balancing those goals is complicated, and it means ensuring programs like these do not go so far as to compromise our fundamental rights to privacy and freedom. In turn, I will continue to make conscientious votes that keep this delicate balance in mind.” ###
05.22.2014	The House today passed the FY 2015 National Defense Authorization Act, which included an amendment sponsored by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) that would allow the Congress to see the progress being made by the Pentagon on its required audit. share: f t Washington, D.C. – The House today passed the FY 2015 National Defense Authorization Act, which included an amendment sponsored by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) that would allow the Congress to see the progress being made by the Pentagon on its required audit. Specifically, this amendment would require the Secretary of Defense to provide Congressional defense committees a short report ranking all military departments and defense agencies in order of how advanced they are in achieving auditable financial statements. “In order to fulfill its oversight role, the Congress is entitled to this information,” Burgess said. “Our amendment will, for the first time, provide Congress with concrete, concise information as to how close each part of DOD is to achieving the goal. No such list currently exists, and Congress to date has not required it. This amendment corrects a vital missing piece to this puzzle, and allows the Congress to execute a chief governmental function: oversight.” Under current law, the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990 requires federal agencies to pass an independent external audit every year, starting in the 1990s. Yet 20 years later, DOD is the only major agency that is not auditable, according to the Government Accountability Office. While DOD years ago said it would pass an audit by 2017, no progress has shown that to be a likelihood. This amendment was also sponsored by Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA). ###
05.21.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today introduced legislation that would improve the quality of treatment for patients at risk for developing sleep apnea, which affects an estimated 12-18 million adults in the U.S. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today introduced legislation that would improve the quality of treatment for patients at risk for developing sleep apnea, which affects an estimated 12-18 million adults in the U.S. The bill, H.R. 4695, would require Medicare to include a sleep apnea questionnaire to the Welcome to Medicare Physical under the Medicare Part B benefit in order to identify seniors who may have risk factors associated with this illness, including advanced age, obesity, large neck circumference, high blood pressure and a family history. “As a physician, I know that early detection is often the best defense against life-threatening illnesses,” Burgess said. “This legislation is a no-brainer: It’s bipartisan, and the potential for improved care among patients who suffer or may suffer from this illness is great.” H.R. 4695 is cosponsored by Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) and is endorsed by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine. ###
05.20.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at a hearing titled, “21st Century Cures: The President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) Report on Drug Innovation: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at a hearing titled, “21st Century Cures: The President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) Report on Drug Innovation: “The Subcommittee has aggressively pursuing the 21st Century Cures Agenda. “The accompanying bipartisan effort to listen to scientists, doctors, researchers, patients and government agencies to find how we can continue to lead the world in scientific discovery that ultimately leads to cures, treatments and devices will improve human health and alleviating human suffering. “In September 2012, the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) issued a ‘Report to the President on Propelling Innovation in Drug Discovery, Development, and Evaluation.’ “The report provided recommendations on how to ensure we are doing everything we can to capture the vast amount of knowledge we have gained in the last few decades and ensure that knowledge is translated into cures that will make it to patients. “The report found many of the same themes we have heard before in this Committee. “While our scientific knowledge has significantly grown the promise of that knowledge has not been fully realized. “Their recommendations also mirror familiar suggestions, including building off existing authorities to accelerate therapeutics and ensure management of regulatory agencies appropriately balances benefits and risk. “When this effort was launched we said we wanted to hear from everyone and I am pleased that we are evaluating the advice being given to the President in this area. “I look forward to the hearing, which I suspect will be the first of many, and to participating in this initiative.” ###
05.13.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) today joined members of the Texas delegation in calling for an Inspector General investigation into allegations that Veterans Affairs officials in Central Texas manipulated medical appointment data in order to conceal long wait times for veterans seeking care. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) today joined members of the Texas delegation in calling for an Inspector General investigation into allegations that Veterans Affairs officials in Central Texas manipulated medical appointment data in order to conceal long wait times for veterans seeking care. In a letter to Veterans Affairs Acting Inspector General Richard Griffin, Burgess and the other members addressed recent media reports that employees at the North Central Federal Clinic in San Antonio, the Austin Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic and the Waco Veterans Affairs Medical Center were instructed by supervisors to ensure that wait times for veterans were as short as possible. A Veterans Affairs employee who recently worked at all three clinics said staffers falsely logged patients’ desired appointment dates to closely coincide with appointment openings when in reality, veterans were left waiting for months. These reports come on the heels of news that at least 40 veterans in Phoenix died while waiting to receive care. In turn, Burgess and the other members called on Griffin to immediately investigate operations at each of the three facilities. “The policy of falsifying medical records is dishonest, deceptive, and injurious to veterans,” the members wrote. “Swift action must be taken to protect the health and well-being of our nation’s veterans.” “We understand that your office has staff in San Antonio reviewing these allegations,” the letter continued. “However, we want to make sure that your office is also investigating the potential misconduct that may have affected veterans seeking care in Waco and Austin. Any individuals found to have engaged in misconduct or mismanagement must face serious consequences.” The members urged Inspector General Griffin to “expeditiously and thoroughly investigate the claims regarding misconduct” and report back to Congress on his findings. In addition to Burgess, the letter was signed by Congressmen Lamar Smith (TX-21), Joe Barton (TX-06), Kevin Brady (TX-08), John Carter (TX-31), Michael Conaway (TX-11), John Culberson (TX-07), Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Bill Flores (TX-17), Pete Gallego (TX-23), Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Kay Granger (TX-12), Ralph Hall (TX-04), Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Sam Johnson (TX-03), Kenny Marchant (TX-24), Michael McCaul (TX-10), Randy Neugebauer (TX-19), Pete Olson (TX-22), Ted Poe (TX-02), Pete Sessions (TX-32), Mac Thornberry (TX-13), Randy Weber (TX-14), and Roger Williams (TX-25). A copy of the letter can be found here. ###
05.07.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations,Th today issued the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at a hearing titled, “PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry”: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations,Th today issued the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at a hearing titled, “PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry”: “Thank you for coming to testify today. We are all here because the White House has continued to block the Congress from important details about the 8 million enrollees in the Affordable Care Act. “From our report last week, less than three quarters of people enrolled in the Federal Marketplace paid their first month’s premium. “As a physician, this worries me. “The 90-day rule – a regulation mandated by the Obama Administration – says that when people can’t continue to pay their premiums, the insurers must pick up the tab for the next 30 days. “But after that, who covers the next 60 days before the enrollee is dropped? I fear that it’s the doctors who will be on the hook. “So this is what I want to know from you all today: What happens when people can’t keep paying their bills? Are physicians and hospitals responsible for those costs? “I know I speak for doctors nation-wide when I say this is a major concern. I hope you will address this issue today.” ###
05.07.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today released the following statement in reaction to his support of the Lois Lerner Contempt of Congress resolution, which passed the House today: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today released the following statement in reaction to his support of the Lois Lerner Contempt of Congress resolution, which passed the House today: “The IRS’ targeting of certain political groups for more intense scrutiny profoundly shook America’s trust in our federal agencies to work ethically, and it violated our constitutional rights. To then hinder the fundamental function of the Congress – which is to investigate scandals like these – is unacceptable. Holding someone in contempt of Congress means the individual obstructed the proceedings of Congress, and Ms. Lerner has done just that not once, but over and over. And what is worse, the Obama administration’s Justice Department has given Ms. Lerner and the IRS a free pass to do so. “It is a shame we have gotten to this point. Frankly, it is sad that officials at high-level agencies have resorted to low-level political posturing on what should be a cut-and-dry function of our government. Ms. Lerner’s actions have done nothing to improve the negative perception and distrust the American people currently have of their government. It is time the IRS is held accountable for its deplorable actions.” ###
05.01.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) on Wednesday introduced legislation that would award $5 million to anyone who could provide information regarding the attacks in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) on Wednesday introduced legislation that would award $5 million to anyone who could provide information regarding the attacks in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012. The bill, H.R. 4530, would mandate that the Secretary of State provide the reward to anyone who has information that would lead to the capture of a suspect, which has happened in past circumstances through the State Department’s Rewards for Justice Program. “The day after the attack, President Obama said, ‘We will not waver in our commitment to see that justice is done for this terrible act. And make no mistake, justice will be done,’” Burgess said. “But it has been 19 months since the tragedy in Benghazi that killed four Americans, and no justice has been done. The families of the brave Americans who paid the ultimate price in Benghazi deserve peace after all of this time. While the Obama administration’s refusal to prioritize this investigation has certainly set us back on achieving that goal of justice, we as a Congress are doing whatever we can to get to the bottom of what happened in order to ensure a tragic event like never happens again. This bill is an important step towards closing the book on Benghazi once and for all.” The legislation is a companion bill to S. 1661, which Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) introduced last November. “The State Department’s Rewards for Justice Program exists to help the U.S. identify and apprehend its enemies, but the Obama administration has not used it to pursue the terrorists who attacked our personnel in Benghazi,” Cruz said in a written statement in November. “This legislation enables the Secretary of State to offer a substantial reward for information leading to the apprehension and prosecution of the suspects who have been identified.” Congressman Tim Huelskamp (R-KS) is an original cosponsor of the legislation. "The American people are tired of waiting to learn the truth about the 2012 Benghazi attacks,” Huelskamp said. “After the latest revelation that the administration withheld emails relating to the investigation, it is clear that the pursuit of the terrorists who attacked our personnel in Benghazi is not a high priority for President Obama. By offering a substantial reward for information leading to the apprehension and prosecution of suspects in these attacks, this bill will help Americans learn the truth about Benghazi.” Introducing this legislation is the latest in a serious of efforts by Burgess to investigate the 2012 attacks in Benghazi. He has met with House Speaker John Boehner to be briefed on the investigation and has been in regular talks with members of both the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, which continue to hold hearings on this issue. Additionally, he is a cosponsor of legislation by Congressman Frank Wolf (R-VA) to establish a select committee to investigate the attack. ###
04.29.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today delivered the following opening statement as prepared for delivery during a House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing entitled, “Examining the Growing Problems of Prescription Drug and Heroin Abuse,” which he chaired: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today delivered the following opening statement as prepared for delivery during a House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing entitled, “Examining the Growing Problems of Prescription Drug and Heroin Abuse,” which he chaired: “Good morning. I now convene this hearing of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations entitled, “Examining the Growing Problems of Prescription Drug and Heroin Abuse.” “These are separate and distinct problems with a common end point: abuse, overdose and death. “As we know, the abuse of prescription drugs and illegal drugs such as heroin have plagued our nation for decades. However, over the last several months, there have been increasing reports that prescription drug and heroin abuse in communities around the country continue to grow. Sadly, those reports indicate that overdose deaths as a result of prescription drug and heroin abuse are also on the rise. Families have lost sons and daughters and fathers and mothers to this addiction. “Data from the federal agencies charged with addressing drug abuse paint a startling picture of the severity of this public health crisis. Prescription drug abuse kills more than 16,000 people per year. From 2007 to 2012, heroin use rose by 79 percent in this country and 3,000 people die each year from heroin overdoses. “U.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder declared recently that heroin abuse constitutes “an urgent and growing public health crisis.” Certainly, there is a law enforcement aspect to solving this problem and stopping the bad actors who illegally distribute prescription drugs or traffic heroin. But the other part of the equation is treating addiction to prescription drugs and heroin — and preventing deaths. The answer to a burgeoning heroin epidemic, as the administration has called it, is not to wage a war on all opioids. To address a complex issue, the solution will not be simple. “The purpose of today’s hearing is to examine the federal response, including the public health response, to prescription drug and heroin abuse. Our oversight has revealed that this is a complex problem. Those who abuse drugs often have an underlying mental illness. Treating their addiction means that the underlying mental illness must be successfully diagnosed and treated. “As the testimony of Mr. Botticelli states, substance abuse is a “progressive disease.” Those who suffer from addiction often start at a young age, with alcohol and marijuana, and then move to other drugs like opioids. In examining opioid abuse, we must also consider the factors that lead people to abuse – and what we are doing to address them. “Many Americans also suffer from chronic and debilitating pain. It is important to remember the millions of individuals who safely use opioids under the guidance of their physicians, pain that we all hope us or a loved one would never suffer. “As Dr. Volkow of NIH recognizes in her testimony, we need to recognize the ‘special character” of prescription drug abuse.’ On one hand, we have growing prescription drug and opiate addiction; on the other, we have the very real need for these drugs to treat chronic pain and alleviate suffering, especially in patients with conditions like cancer. These drugs are safe when used as directed. It is their improper use that leads to abuse and overdose. “Over recent years, we have heard a great deal about doctor shopping, pill mills, and the efforts of Prescription Drug Monitoring Plans to address these problems. We need to ensure that doctors and pharmacists have the tools at their disposal to adequately fill their role in ensuring appropriate prescribing. But addicts also get these drugs through illegal channels, such as rogue Internet pharmacies, off the street, and obtaining them through family and friends. Although some question whether federal efforts to crackdown or prevent prescription drug abuse have contributed to the recent rise in heroin abuse, and whether this should have been anticipated, there is no question that both are on the rise and we have a responsibility to examine this issue fully. “While most prescription drug abusers do not go on to abuse heroin, there is data from the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) that indicates 81 percent of people who started using heroin in 2008 to 2010 had previously abused prescription drugs. “The federal government is devoting significant resources to drug control programs -- over $25 billion annually, of which about $10 billion goes toward drug abuse prevention and treatment programs across 19 federal agencies. We will ask today’s witnesses to identify the specific policies, programs, and initiatives have been most effective in combatting prescription drug and heroin abuse -- and which have not. With 19 agencies having a hand in over 70 drug control programs — is this working? What can we do better? Oversight by the federal agencies is also an important issue, as significant funding is block granted to states for treatment programs “Testifying before us today are representatives of the five agencies with lead roles in addressing opiate abuse: Mr. Michael Botticelli, Acting Director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy; Dr. Daniel Sosin of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Dr. Nora Volkow of the National Institute on Drug Abuse; Dr. H. Westley Clark of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration; and Mr. Joseph Rannazzisi of the Drug Enforcement Agency. This is a prestigious panel, and I thank you for being here today. We look forward to your testimony.” ###
04.29.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of the Expatriate Health Coverage Clarification Act, which he said addresses “yet another flaw that has to be corrected in the Affordable Care Act due to the rushed and forced process by which the bill was passed in 2010.” share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of the Expatriate Health Coverage Clarification Act, which he said addresses “yet another flaw that has to be corrected in the Affordable Care Act due to the rushed and forced process by which the bill was passed in 2010.” Burgess, Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, said the bill would allow Congress to correct and clarify the ACA’s impact on expatriate health care plans, preventing more than 1,000 Americans from losing their jobs as a result of the President’s health care law. “The legislation before us today is a clear example of why a top-down, federal approach to health care doesn’t work,” Burgess said. “Consumers should be in the drivers’ seat in deciding what works best for themselves and their families, not bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. Burgess, who also sits on the House Rules Committee, delivered his statement while managing House Resolution 555 that provided for consideration of this bill on the floor of the House. The full text of his statement is below. “Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all members have five legislative days to revise and extend their remarks. “House Resolution 555 provides for consideration of yet another flaw that has to be corrected in the Affordable Care Act due to the rushed and forced process by which the bill was passed in 2010. As a direct result of this sloppy and hasty legislating, experts have estimated that over 1,000 Americans could lose their jobs unless Congress takes immediate action to correct and clarify the ACA’s impact on expatriate health care plans. This bill before us today will do just that, putting Americans above partisan politics, and helping yet another subset of people in our country who are currently being harmed by the President’s signature law. “The rule before us today provides for one full hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means. Further, the rule provides for the adoption of an amendment by the bill’s authors, Representatives Nunes from California and Carney from Delaware which addresses a number of concerns the minority expressed during debate of this legislation several weeks ago. True to the Speaker’s commitment of letting the House work its will, Republicans listened to those concerns and crafted a bipartisan amendment to improve this legislation. In addition, the rule provides the minority the standard Motion to Recommit. “H.R. 4414, the Expatriate Health Coverage Clarification Act of 2014, addresses the problem caused by the Affordable Care Act which could result in those Americans who live abroad for a substantial portion of the year – referred to as expatriates – losing their health coverage because of the one-size fits all approach to our health care system employed by the ACA. Expatriate health care providers have traditionally offered tailored, specialized insurance plans to meet the needs of Americans who spend their time oversees. These citizens cannot simply rely on a local, general practitioner or neighborhood clinic because they are so often on the road and away from home. “However, the ACA does not provide an avenue by which these plans can continue to be offered. Instead, Senator Reid, Kathleen Sebelius, and Barack Obama decided it was up to them to decide how Americans’ health insurance plans could be structured. The legislation before us today is a clear example of why a top-down, federal approach to health care doesn’t work. Consumers should be in the drivers’ seat in deciding what works best for themselves and their families, not bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. “Because of the regulations in the ACA, insurers have announced that they will have to shift their expatriate operations overseas in order to be in compliance with the law. And with those operations, will go those jobs. All Americans know that it was shown to be an empty promise that ‘If you like your health care plan, you can keep it.’ It’s a good thing the President never promised ‘If you like your job, you can keep it.’ Over 1,000 jobs tied to expatriate health care operations will be shipped overseas. And Americans who rely on these niche health care plans which have until now worked so well for them and their families will have to scramble to find alternative coverage. “Some examples of those Americans who will potentially lose their health care coverage due to the unyielding regulations in the ACA include businessmen and women, pilots, foreign aid workers, ship operators, and tour guides. The President has already acknowledged that his law will hurt these Americans, announcing that HHS would, yet again, ignore the law and provide a temporary waiver from complying with the law’s requirements. But this isn’t how you fix flawed legislation. You come to Congress and you ask that the law be amended – for a so-called constitutional scholar, the president seems to have only read Article 2 of the Constitution, skipping over entirely the first and longest Article, where the Founders made the Congress the body where laws are passed and amended. As a result of the President making this change unilaterally, the relief is only temporary. The bill before us today provides the long-term certainty that is required to give these affected Americans and their families the certainty they need to make decisions for their futures. “These expatriate plans are not bare-bones plans that some in this body have criticized. They are typically robust, comprehensive plans which simply cater to the special needs to Americans who travel for a good portion of the year. “The amendment by Representatives Nunes and Carney which is adopted in the rule before us takes a thoughtful piece of legislation and improves it even further. It clarifies that any future plans offered to expatriates must still comply with the actuarial requirements in the ACA, as well as any pre-ACA laws, including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, known as ERISA, and the Public Health Service Act. Moreover, it narrowly tailors this relief to those Americans who spend more than 180 days outside the country. These were concerns that Democrats expressed during the previous debate on this legislation, and they are fully addressed in the legislation before us today. “This is a carefully crafted fix to a poorly crafted law. It is needed to help Americans who are being directly harmed by the President’s health care law. “I encourage my colleagues to vote YES on the Rule and YES on the underlying bill. With that I reserve the balance of my time.” ###
04.25.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today presented his constituent, David Smith, with the first ever TDF Foundation Veterans Scholarship. share: f t Lewisville, TX – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today presented his constituent, David Smith, with the first ever TDF Foundation Veterans Scholarship. The Veterans Scholarship Initiative, launched by the TDF Foundation this year, awards a $3,000 scholarship to a veteran majoring in science, technology engineering and mathematics (STEM) education. The scholarship will be for the 2014-2015 academic year. David Smith is the first to receive this scholarship, which will go towards a Bachelor’s degree in Biology with a focus on traumatic brain injuries at the University of North Texas. After serving in Afghanistan and becoming injured in a roadside bomb in 2010, Smith spent a year in therapy to slowly regain his cognitive and physical abilities, spiking his interest in traumatic brain injuries. In 2011, he petitioned the commandant of the Marine Corps to allow him to begin his formal education with a focus on the biology of the human brain. He is scheduled this summer to present a lecture at an international neuroscience conference about the mechanisms surrounding traumatic brain injury. “It is an honor to present David Smith with this scholarship today,” Burgess said. “As a veteran, Smith served our country with bravery, determination and pride. As a student in one of the STEM sciences, he is only continuing to better our nation and strengthen the future of America. STEM achievement should be a focus for us all as a way to maintain and strengthen American competitiveness in an increasingly global economy. Smith is doing just that. He makes the 26th district proud.” Also in attendance to help present the scholarship was former Congressman Jack Fields and University of North Texas President Neal Smatresk. More information on the TDF Foundation may be found here. ###
04.24.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today announced the winner of the 11th annual 26th Congressional District Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” The art competition was open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the district. Ah Yeong Cho, a junior art student taught by James Neiswender at Marcus High School in Flower Mound, won the Grand Prize in the 2014 competition with her pencil and prismacolor drawing entitled “Release Me.” share: f t Lewisville, TX – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today announced the winner of the 11th annual 26th Congressional District Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” The art competition was open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the district. Ah Yeong Cho, a junior art student taught by James Neiswender at Marcus High School in Flower Mound, won the Grand Prize in the 2014 competition with her pencil and prismacolor drawing entitled “Release Me.” “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic achievements of our local high school students, and to share the results of those talents with our area and the rest of the country,” Burgess said. “Ah Yeong’s work makes the 26th District proud. She is a very talented young woman with a tremendous gift.” Burgess honored the finalists at a reception on Wednesday at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton hosted by the art competition’s co-sponsor, The Greater Denton Arts Council. The competition was judged by professional artist and instructor Jo Williams. This year marked the third year that entries were submitted digitally by art teachers on behalf of their students. This provided an opportunity for a “Texas Choice” winner to be selected by popular vote in the virtual gallery on Burgess’ website, burgess.house.gov. More than 1,500 individuals cast votes for their favorite artwork. Brittney Boyd, a Prestonwood Christian Academy student taught by Brenda Robson was the winner of this category for her photograph “Monochromatic Bird.” Williams reviewed the posted artwork and determined the contest finalists based upon artistic merit, selecting a “Best of School” award for one student from each school based on her appraisal of artwork that had a high level of artistic merit and execution. These students were also finalists in the competition. All of the finalists were publicly recognized by Congressman Burgess with a “Certificate of Congressional Recognition.” As the Grand Prize winner, Cho will have her artwork displayed for an entire year in the U.S. Capitol and has the opportunity to attend the national ceremony in Washington, DC in June. The ceremony will honor the winning artists from congressional districts all over the country. In addition, Ye Jee Kim, a senior at Lewisville High School taught by Janet Cranston, won First Place for her oil painting “Blue Bag.” Kim’s piece will be displayed in Burgess’ Lewisville district office for the next year. “Congratulations are in order for Ah Yeong, Ye Jee and Brittney for their creative achievements,” Burgess said. Since the competition was first launched in 1982, more than 5,000 local contests have been conducted that have involved more than 650,000 high school students. Burgess said he was pleased to bring this worthwhile program to the high school students of the 26th District and looks forward to next year’s competition. ###
04.23.2014	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today announced he will host the sixth annual Emergency Preparedness Summit and Fair this Saturday, April 25, 2014. The summit and fair will take place at Lewisville High School’s Harmon Campus from 8 a.m. until noon. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today announced he will host the sixth annual Emergency Preparedness Summit and Fair this Saturday, April 25, 2014. The summit and fair will take place at Lewisville High School’s Harmon Campus from 8 a.m. until noon. “I am looking forward to another successful and informative summit this weekend,” Burgess said. “With the severe weather we have had in North Texas recently, this summit is more timely than ever. It’s never too late to prepare yourself and your family for a natural disaster. This fair will equip you and your family with the tools and information necessary to face any disastrous situation.” The event will include presentations on tornado readiness, school safety, wildfires and West Nile Virus. It will also include an indoor and outdoor fair with live demonstrations and booths that will be fun and informative for the whole family. Meteorologist Larry Mowry from CBS Channel 11 News will deliver the keynote address, and representatives from the National Weather Service and local government officials and emergency responders will be in attendance. More information may be found at burgess.house.gov. Lewisville Highschool’s Harmon campus is located at 1250 W Round Grove Road in Lewisville, TX. ###
04.15.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today joined 10 other members of Congress in asking Secretary of State John Kerry to urge NATO member countries and participating states of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to end all defense contracts with Russia in response to the country’s illegal annexation of Crimea and violation of Ukrainian sovereignty. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today joined 10 other members of Congress in asking Secretary of State John Kerry to urge NATO member countries and participating states of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to end all defense contracts with Russia in response to the country’s illegal annexation of Crimea and violation of Ukrainian sovereignty. “We believe the United States must show leadership by terminating all defense contracts with Russia and ask that you strongly encourage our NATO allies and OSCE participating states to take similar actions,” the members of Congress wrote. “We urge you to lead the coordination among NATO and OSCE to halt trade involving military equipment with Russia immediately. We believe this is a crucial step in reestablishing a deterrent against further Russian aggression and strengthening the impact of our targeted economic sanctions against Russia.” In addition to Burgess, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Daniel Coats (R-IN), Chris Murphy (D-CN), David Vitter (R-LA) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) and U.S. Representatives Louise Slaughter (D-NY) and Joe Pitts (R-PA). The full text of the letter is attached and below. The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State United States Department of State 2201 C Street Northwest Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry: We write to express our support for NATO’s decision to suspend military and civilian cooperation with Russia. We also ask that you further urge both NATO member countries and participating states of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to work cooperatively to cease all trade involving military equipment with Russia in response to Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea and violation of Ukrainian sovereignty. This would be a forceful next step by both international organizations (of which the United States is a member) to affirm that there is no more business as usual when it comes to bilateral trade of military equipment given Russia’s hostile actions. As you are aware, two decades ago the Partnership for Peace program was implemented to foster trust between NATO member countries and the member states of the former Soviet Union, and to acknowledge a shared political commitment to creating lasting and inclusive peace in the Euro-Atlantic area. This integration with the member states of the former Soviet Union was predicated on shared values and common obligations to uphold international law. Likewise, the Helsinki Final Act, which has been signed by 57 OSCE nations, including the United States, affirmed our collective commitment to sovereign equality, respect for human rights, and fundamental freedoms. Russia violated these shared principles by disregarding its treaty obligations under the bilateral Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation, and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. We should immediately halt the trade in military equipment now that Russia has reneged on its commitment to abide by international law. Russia has clearly violated the principles of the Helsinki Final Act, and its actions are antithetical to the principles that NATO member countries like the United States seek to uphold. Nonetheless, significant bilateral trade in military equipment continues. The United Kingdom announced the Military Technical Cooperation Agreement with Russia in January 2014, which would provide a framework for Russian and UK defense companies to cooperate at an unclassified level and enable British and Russian arms producers to exchange defense components and technical data. France has continued an existing contract to sell two high-tech Mistral warships to Russia, and the Hungarian Ministry of Defense recently acquired three Mil Mi-8 transport helicopters produced by Rosoboronexport. Unfortunately and inexplicably, the United States is, at the time of writing, continuing with plans to receive 22 more Mi-17 helicopters from Russia as part of our ongoing assistance to Afghanistan. We believe the United States must show leadership by terminating all defense contracts with Russia and ask that you strongly encourage our NATO allies and OSCE participating states to take similar actions. We urge you to lead the coordination among NATO and OSCE to halt trade involving military equipment with Russia immediately. We believe this is a crucial step in reestablishing a deterrent against further Russian aggression and strengthening the impact of our targeted economic sanctions against Russia. We thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, RICHARD BLUMENTHAL United States Senate JOHN CORNYN United States Senate ROGER F. WICKER United States Senate BENJAMIN L. CARDIN United States Senate DANIEL COATS United States Senate CHRISTOPHER S. MURPHY United States Senate DAVID VITTER United States Senate KELLY AYOTTE United States Senate MICHAEL C. BURGESS Member of Congress LOUISE M. SLAUGHTER Member of Congress JOE PITTS Member of Congress ###
04.09.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today delivered the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at a U.S. Helsinki Commission hearing titled, “Ukraine: Confronting Internal Challenges and External Threats”: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today delivered the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at a U.S. Helsinki Commission hearing titled, “Ukraine: Confronting Internal Challenges and External Threats”: “Over a couple of short months, some extraordinary events have occurred in Ukraine and the Crimea. On February 21, pro-European Union protesters legally marched in the streets of Kiev to demand reform from their government. The protesters won out and Yanukovych, who was president at that time, stepped down. “We all know what happened next. Russia immediately condemned the new Ukrainian government as illegitimate. Then, under the guise of “freeing” the Russian-speaking citizens of Crimea, Russia invaded and annexed a piece of a sovereign nation. “Russian foul play may not end there. Earlier this week, armed protesters swarmed Donetsk, a city 300 miles to the north of Crimea. Ukraine and U.S. officials allege the protesters were organized by Russia. The protesters themselves then called on President Putin to send in troops to help them. If true, Donetsk could be the next domino to fall to illegal Russian aggression. “This cannot stand. Doing its part, the United States’ Congress has acted. We passed a $1 billion loan guarantee for Ukraine. Further, Congress passed separate legislation that requires President Obama to ban visas and seize assets from the people responsible for undermining the peace and stability of Ukraine. “We can also take steps to help Ukraine in other ways. Yesterday in the Energy and Commerce Committee, we had a markup of The Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act. It is the purpose of the bill to move forward with exporting the excess amount of Liquefied Natural Gas, also known as LNG, produced in the United States to our friends and allies overseas. “This kind of export could be extremely helpful to Ukraine, which could buy the gas from the United States, instead of having to rely on Russia. In fact, Ukraine, along with Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia and Poland have all endorsed the legislation saying that it would have this desired effect. “The Administration, however, has failed to act. And frankly, I believe that it’s because of the recent actions, or inaction, by the Administration that President Putin has operated with near impunity. Recently, “red lines” and ultimatums followed up with non-action by the Obama Administration have set a dangerous precedent going forward. “Four years ago, Hillary Clinton, who was Secretary of State at the time, said we must hit the reset button on our relationship with President Putin. This sent a terrible message to the rest of the world. It implied that the United States, which has always stood firm for freedom and democracy, is willing to work diplomatically with President Putin. Putin is not to be trusted. He is still fighting the Cold War and is denying basic freedoms to the people of Russia. “Indeed, the world is looking to America for leadership. Together with my friends in Congress and on the Helsinki Commission, we stand in solidarity with the people of Ukraine. “I thank the Chairman and I look forward to hearing comments by the witness as to the current situation in Ukraine and what we can do to further deter Russian hostility.” The Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission, is an independent U.S. government agency created in 1976 to monitor and encourage compliance with the Helsinki Final Act and other OSCE commitments. The Commission consists of nine Senators, nine members of the House, including Burgess, and one member each from the Departments of State, Defense and Commerce. For more information, click here. ###
04.08.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today released the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at a hearing titled, “Examining the Implementation of the Tobacco Control Act”: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today released the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at a hearing titled, “Examining the Implementation of the Tobacco Control Act”: “I have requested oversight of FDA regulation of tobacco, the agency’s ability to implement the law, and how it is allocating its resources for some time. “Tobacco results in the deaths of approximately 480,000 Americans every year. “The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates $156 billion in lost wages from premature death. Economic costs also include $133 billion per year in direct health care costs. “For every pack of cigarettes smoked, this nation incurs $18.20 in medical care and lost productivity. About 90% of lung cancer deaths are caused by smoking. Nearly 1 of every 5 deaths is related to smoking. Cigarettes kill more Americans than alcohol, car accidents, suicide, AIDS, homicide, and illegal drugs - combined. “I continue to oppose FDA’s role in anything related to tobacco that doesn’t involve people quitting. The FDA should be the gateway for the American public to access lifesaving and improving products. Tobacco should not be in the same building. “But as long as it is we deserve an accounting of how $1.1 billion in collected in user fees is being spent as well as the plans for the over $500 million that remain unobligated. To put this number in perspective that is roughly 5 times the amount of user fees collected from medical device manufacturers. “We do know FDA has faced legal challenges with graphic labels. Stakeholders complain of lack of any regulatory guidance, despite statutory direction. “Has it improved the health of Americans? Every statistic shows us going in the wrong direction. “Where is FDA? They could not find time to come here and testify. I find that outrageous and offensive to this Committee. I hope GAO can shine light on their actions." ###
04.04.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today discussed his thoughts on the tragedy at the Fort Hood military base in a video address to his constituents. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today discussed his thoughts on the tragedy at the Fort Hood military base in a video address to his constituents. “This news is devastating and shocking by itself, but the fact that it comes less than five years after the shooting at Fort Hood by Maj. Hassan is unspeakable,” Burgess said. Click here to watch. On April 2, 2014, a gunman opened fire at Fort Hood, killing three people and wounding at least 16 others before killing himself. Burgess attended the memorial of the victims of the Fort Hood shooting in 2009. To view past weekly video addresses, click here. ####
04.03.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today was honored as an “American Conservative Union (ACU) Conservative” for his achievements in the 2013 ACU Ratings of Congress, the 43rd edition of the conservatives rating guide, according to ACU Chairman Al Cardenas and ACU Foundation Chairman Carly Fiorina. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today was honored as an “American Conservative Union (ACU) Conservative” for his achievements in the 2013 ACU Ratings of Congress, the 43rd edition of the conservatives rating guide, according to ACU Chairman Al Cardenas and ACU Foundation Chairman Carly Fiorina. The 2013 ACU Ratings of Congress includes scores for each individual member in both the Senate and the House of Representatives. “ACU Conservatives,” are members recognized for scoring 80 percent or higher. Burgess scored 92 percent. “I am honored to be named a top conservative by the ACU, a group that has been committed to conservative ideals for many years, and an important voice in American politics today,” Burgess said. “Conservatives have a responsibility to fight the out-of-control growth of government in Congress. We are proud to honor the fine work of Rep. Burgess in that battle,” said ACU Chairman Al Cardenas. Throughout the history of the conservative ratings program, ACU has become the go-to source for determining whether an elected official’s philosophical rhetoric matches his or her record. The guides provide a comprehensive analysis of the legislative landscape over the preceding year. This differentiates ACU from other guides that may emphasize single areas, like taxes, defense, or social policy. ACU’s scored votes are not announced in advance, ensuring that its scores provide a more accurate reflection of an elected official’s philosophy of government. “The 2013 Ratings show a continued commitment by Rep. Burgess to the conservative principles that will contribute to the revitalization of America,” said ACU Foundation Chairman Carly Fiorina. The ACU tracks a wide range of issues before Congress to determine which bills serve as the best barometer for separating those representatives who defend liberty from liberal members who have turned their backs on our founding principles – constitutionally limited government, individual liberty, free markets, a strong national defense and traditional American values. The full 2013 ACU Ratings of Congress guide is now available online at www.conservative.org. ###
04.03.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), a practicing OB/GYN for nearly 30 years, and Rep. Lois Capps (D-CA), who worked as a nurse and public health advocate for 20 years, today introduced legislation that would provide access to maternity health care for women in need. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), a practicing OB/GYN for nearly 30 years, and Rep. Lois Capps (D-CA), who worked as a nurse and public health advocate for 20 years, today introduced legislation that would provide access to maternity health care for women in need. The National Health Service Corps (NHSC) provides loan repayment to the tune of $50,000 for two years of service to physicians and other health professional who agree to work in underserved areas, known as Health Professional Shortage Areas. These areas are often urban and rural locations where there are not enough health care providers to serve the basic needs of the community. The Improving Access to Maternity Care Act, H.R. 4385, would allow maternity care to be included as a fourth Health Professional Shortage Area, thereby incentivizing physicians, nurse midwives and other maternity care providers to fill the gaps that currently exist in maternity health care for pregnant women in need. The program has been proven to work for the three areas already designated by the NHSC as Health Professional Shortage Areas: dental, mental health and primary care. “This legislation will be a step in identifying areas of need and addressing these shortcomings in our health care system, so that American women and their families are able to get the care they need,” Burgess said. “Furthermore, as a physician, I understand the long hours and hefty loans that come with being a doctor. This legislation would ease the financial burden for hard-working physicians who have pledged to provide the best care for their patients.” “I am proud to have co-authored this important, common-sense bill because as a nurse, I know firsthand the critical importance of providing quality health care to women who are pregnant, especially in underserved areas,” Capps said. “This bipartisan bill would go a long way in providing access to this type of care for women and their families, while also ensuring that quality, hardworking medical care professionals caring for these families are adequately incentivized to work in these rural and urban areas that need them.” The Improving Access to Maternity Care Act is supported by the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American College of Nurse-Midwives. ###
04.01.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today gave the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at the hearing entitled, “The GM Ignition Switch Recall: Why Did It Take So Long?”: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today gave the following opening statement, as prepared for delivery, at the hearing entitled, “The GM Ignition Switch Recall: Why Did It Take So Long?”: “We are here today to examine a very important matter, one that touches many Americans; the recent recall of millions of General Motors cars in the United States. “The title of this hearing is aptly named: Why did it take so long? On February 10th of this year, GM finally announced the first recall of its cars because of a faulty ignition switch. But for over a decade, documents obtained by this Committee suggest that the company, through sample testing, was aware that the ignition torque on the switches were below the original specifications set by GM. “As for NHTSA, the agency had at least two chances to open up formal investigations into the recalled GM cars. Both in 2007 and 2010, NHTSA initially examined problems with the vehicles and both times decided that no investigation was needed. This lapse in judgment and analysis is unacceptable. As the nation’s watchdog on highway safety, how can the agency look at the data, see that there is a clear problem and not do anything about it? Not once, but twice. “With over 200,000 documents that have been produced, lack of information was not the problem. Instead, it is this Committee’s duty to figure out why the data was there but the analysis was egregiously off the mark. We need to get to the bottom of this – and fast. The stakes are too high.” ###
04.01.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice chairman on the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following statement in response to the White House’s assertion that at least 7.1 million Americans have signed up for insurance through exchanges: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice chairman on the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following statement in response to the White House’s assertion that at least 7.1 million Americans have signed up for insurance through exchanges: “These numbers are a total fantasy – they’re arbitrary and fictitious. “The Obama administration claims 7.1 million have enrolled. Have they all paid? Most importantly, how many people were previously uninsured? For a president who ran on a promise to insure the 45 million Americans who lack insurance, it is highly suspect that the White House has stayed mum on the issue of just who is included in this group. “The president and even the media have been hyping these numbers in celebration all day. Meanwhile, Congressional inquiries asking the administration to reveal more about this group have been met by total silence. As they hold press conferences and photo ops, they continue to dodge basic, fundamental questions from the House Committees on Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means. What are they hiding? The Congress has the tools necessary to obtain this information, and if the White House continues to withhold it, we will have no choice but to use those tools. It is simply too important to let go.” ###
03.28.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), today announced the North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum will be held Saturday, April 5, 2014. This informational forum provides interested students in grades eight through 12 the opportunity to learn more about our nation’s service academies, requirements for admission and the selection process. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), today announced the North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum will be held Saturday, April 5, 2014. This informational forum provides interested students in grades eight through 12 the opportunity to learn more about our nation’s service academies, requirements for admission and the selection process. In addition to Burgess, the forum is hosted by Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz, Congressmen Jeb Hensarling, Joe Barton, Kenny Marchant, Roger Williams, Pete Sessions, Marc Veasey, and Congresswoman Kay Granger. North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum Date: Saturday, April 5, 2014 Time: 8:00 AM - 12:00 Noon Registration opens at 7:30 AM Note: This is a “come & stay” event! Place: Mountain View College 4849 W. Illinois Avenue Building E: Performing Arts Center Dallas, Texas 75211 Representatives from the congressional offices and all five academies (U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy), as well as current academy cadets and midshipmen will be on hand. North Texas students, parents and educators will be able to hear from and meet with these representatives on a one-to-one basis to become informed about the excellent possibilities associated with attending these premier educational institutions and the sorts of careers they generate. In addition, representatives from Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine Corps ROTC will also present. The Forum is free and open to the public; no pre-registration is required. It will be held from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.; registration opens at 7:30 a.m. For more information, please contact: Robin Vaughan, Deputy District Director Office of Congressman Michael Burgess Phone: 972-434-9700 Email: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov ###
03.27.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement on President Obama’s announcement today that 6 million people have signed up for health insurance through state and federal exchanges: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement on President Obama’s announcement today that 6 million people have signed up for health insurance through state and federal exchanges: “Just as we expected, the Obama administration has come out hyping numbers that are a total fantasy. Who are these 6 million people? How many of them already had insurance? How many of these so-called 6 million newly insured have actually paid for their enrollments, not just signed up? The obvious truth is that if the President was meeting his goals, he would not have delayed the deadline to enroll. The White House will not give us real numbers, and instead are leaving us with an unabridged fantasy to cover up for its aggressive incompetence.” ###
03.26.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following statement on the announcement by the Obama Administration that it will delay the health law’s open enrollment period: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following statement on the announcement by the Obama Administration that it will delay the health law’s open enrollment period: “With yet another delay to the President’s signature health law, it’s like the movie ‘Groundhog Day’ over at the White House. This most recent delay – the 19th so far – proves what Republicans in the House have known for nearly five years: This law simply doesn’t work. The American people, many of whom have struggled for months to sign up for new plans with different doctors, higher premiums and unaffordable deductibles, now know it, too. “We should have known not to believe Secretary Sebelius when she said in December that the delays were over. Instead, these continued at a rapid pace. And yet just two weeks ago, an official at HHS said the administration lacked the ‘statutory authority’ to extend the enrollment period. But this is what we have come to expect with the Obama Administration: failed plans, empty promises and the bravado to continually act above the law.” ###
03.24.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. today joined the rest of the House GOP Doctor’s Caucus to discuss the fourth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. today joined the rest of the House GOP Doctor’s Caucus to discuss the fourth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act: Rep. Rep. Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26): “This year’s anniversary is of particular importance because it’s the first year that many of the law’s most significant deadlines were due to go into effect. Not surprisingly, the president delayed the implementation of certain provisions of the law over and over, because he finally saw what we as physicians predicted years ago: The law simply doesn’t work. And now that the enrollment deadline is near, how many people have signed up? Where are the statistics? For a president who promised total transparency, the lack of reporting on the law’s effectiveness is almost as troubling as the law itself. Americans deserve better.” Rep. Phil Gingrey, M.D. (GA-11): “Just four years after President Obama signed his healthcare overhaul into law, American families have realized what House Republicans and I have known to be true all along: Obamacare is one big unaffordable broken promise. Access to physicians has dropped, premiums are rising to unprecedented levels, and millions have been dropped from their insurance plans. The GOP Doctors Caucus and I will continue the fight to fully repeal this law, and replace it with real, market-based, reforms that ensure quality care and preserve the doctor-patient relationship.” Rep. Phil Roe, M.D. (TN-01): “As a physician, I have seen the challenges that exist in the health care system and came to Congress in part to develop market-based health care reform. I quickly became frustrated when Washington Democrats pushed through partisan, ideologically-driven legislation that didn’t address the most fundamental health care problem in this country: cost. Four years later, we’re seeing our fears become reality as patients lose their doctors, premiums skyrocket, and too many Americans are losing the health care coverage they were promised they could keep. As the president celebrates Obamacare, I promise to continue the fight to shield the American people from it.” Rep. Larry Bucshon, M.D. (IN-08): “The American people were sold a list of empty promises in a law that passed without a single Republican vote or input from physician lawmakers,” said Rep. Bucshon, M.D. “As a result, over the past four years we’ve seen the American people lose access to the healthcare and doctors they like, skyrocketing premiums, cuts to Medicare, and a botched website. While I support policies like covering patients with preexisting conditions, keeping kids on their parents insurance until they are 26, and closing the Medicare donut hole, this near-government takeover of our healthcare system has been a train wreck. House Republicans do not want to revert back to the status quo. We have put forth common-sense reforms that drive down the cost of care and put the patient back in charge of their healthcare decisions. As a physician, I want every American to have access to quality, affordable healthcare and that can only be accomplished by repealing and replacing most of the ACA.” Rep. Tom Price, M.D. (GA-06): “Four years ago, President Obama signed Obamacare into law and unleashed a wave of new taxes, spending, and regulations that are giving Washington an increasingly destructive role in the health care of the American people. As many predicted, putting Washington bureaucrats in charge violates every one of our health care principles – whether we are talking affordability, accessibility, quality, innovation, choices or responsiveness. Moreover, the Obama Administration and its allies in Congress have wasted four years incompetently implementing all the rules and regulations that are causing such havoc today while ignoring the numerous alternative reform ideas that are out there. There are many positive solutions that have been offered to fix what ails our health care system, to solve insurance challenges like pre-existing conditions and portability, to increase coverage options and lower health care costs, and to do it all without putting Washington in charge.” Rep. Renee Ellmers (NC-01): "Today marks the fourth anniversary of President Obama's assault on our nation's health care system - a mandated takeover of 1/6th of our nation's economy. The president's overhaul did nothing to make our citizens healthier and protect them from harm. Rather, Obamacare is and remains a redistribution of control. Its primary objective is to take healthcare decisions away from physicians and hospitals and place them in the hands of bureaucrats within the federal government. I ran for office in order to defund, dismantle, repeal, and replace Obamacare. I will not rest until the entire law is repealed." Rep. Paul Broun, M.D. (GA-10): “Four years after Obamacare was signed into law, we are continuing to see its devastating impact on our economy, jobs, and the quality of healthcare. While I have been a staunch opponent of Obamacare from the very start, there is no question now that this law is unaffordable, unworkable, and unfixable - it must be fully repealed and replaced. As Obamacare continues to unravel at every turn, I will fight to put in place free-market, patient-centered solutions, such as my Patient OPTION Act, that will empower patients when it comes to making their healthcare decisions.” Rep. Charles Boustany, M.D. (LA-03): “Four years ago, President Obama signed Obamacare into law. Since then, Americans have received notice they will lose their current coverage while health care premiums continue to climb – solely due to the law. I will continue to stand against this law with alternatives shown to lower costs. The authors of Obamacare broke their promise to families and small businesses across South Louisiana.” Rep. Joe Heck, M.D. (NV-03): "Four years later and we are finally starting ‘to see what's in' the deeply flawed healthcare law. From policy cancellations and premium hikes to website troubles and restrictions on healthcare options for seniors, this law fundamentally changes the way we provide healthcare in this country and my physician's opinion is that it is not for the better. One of the reason's I ran for Congress was because I was concerned about the direction this law would take our country and I have worked with my colleagues in the Doc Caucus to bring a physician’s perspective to the ongoing healthcare debates in Congress. The diagnosis for the ACA is clear: the law must be repealed, repaired, and replaced with common sense reforms that actually expand access to quality healthcare and reduce costs." Rep. John Fleming, M.D. (LA-04): "Obamacare is an unworkable mess. In its short four years of life, Obamacare has put Americans through the loss of health providers and health insurance, it's doubled premiums, carries a $2 trillion taxpayer price tag, and is hammering businesses with job-destroying mandates. The only thing happy about this anniversary is that we're closer to Obamacare imploding beneath the weight of its own failed mandates and regulations. Anything I can do to help nudge it that way, I will." The GOP Doctors Caucus: Utilizing medical expertise to develop patient-centered health care reforms focused on quality, access, affordability, portability, and choice. ###
03.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Texas Medical Association (TMA) yesterday announced its “strong support” of legislation to repeal and replace the Sustainable Growth Rate, which was authored by Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and will be voted on in the House today. TMA, a group representing more than 47,000 physicians and medical students, in a letter commended Burgess for getting “closer to solving this challenging issue than ever before.” They added, “Perhaps more than anyone in Congress, you understand the frustration and anxiety that the ongoing SGR uncertainly creates for practicing physicians.” Burgess’ SGR bill has the support of every member of the Texas delegation on the House Committees on Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means. It currently has 118 cosponsors and is supported by more than 750 organizations. The full text of the letter from TMA is below. March 13 The Honorable Michael C. Burgess, M.D. U.S. House of Representatives 2336 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Representative Burgess, On behalf of the 47,000-plus physician and medical student members of the Texas Medical Association, I am writing to reiterate our strong support for the work you have done to effectuate the repeal of Medicare’s Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula. In conjunction with your Texas colleague, Kevin Brady, you have gotten closer to solving this challenging issue than ever before. And you have done so with the support of every member of the Texas delegation, both Democratic and Republican, on the Energy and Commerce and Ways & Means Committees. Perhaps more than anyone in Congress, you understand the frustration and anxiety that the ongoing SGR uncertainty creates for practicing physicians. You have worked tirelessly to craft a piece of legislation that not only repeals the SGR immediately, but also guarantees positive updates for physicians for five years, removes potential causes of liability against physicians, and eliminates some unnecessary bureaucratic red tape that prevents physicians from concentrating on patient care. We especially appreciate your ongoing consultation and dialogue with TMA and Texas physicians throughout the process. As you know well, the SGR Repeal and Medical Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2014 has made it this far because of a bipartisan, bicameral agreement on the need to replace the SGR. We are committed to helping you finish the task. Sincerely, Stephen L. Brotherton, M.D. President Cc: Texas Delegation ###
03.14.2014	Rep. Burgess: “For far too long, this has been a growing burden on our nation’s seniors and the doctors who provide that care for them.” Washington, D.C. –Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), author of H.R. 4015, the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act, released the following video ahead of today's House of Representative’s vote on a permanent solution to the Medicare physician payment system. Click to watch. For more than a decade, the Sustainable Growth Rate has generated tremendous uncertainty for Medicare physicians and their patients. H.R. 4015 would repeal the SGR formula and replace it with a payment system that promotes the highest quality of care. H.R. 4015 is the product of a bipartisan, bicameral agreement reached by leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, House Committee on Ways and Means, and Senate Finance Committee. The House of Representatives is scheduled vote on H.R. 4015 Friday, providing certainty and peace of mind to seniors and their doctors and fairness for all Americans from the health care law’s individual mandate. Read about the House Energy and Commerce’s work on the SGR online here. ###
03.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today released the following statement on the House’s passage of the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act, H.R. 4015, which he authored: “I’m happy to report that the House has voted for a bipartisan policy solution to modernize a system that has caused nothing but headaches for America’s seniors and their doctors. The house has voted 17 times for patches or ‘Doc Fixes.’ If the SGR went into effect this April, it would mean a 25% reduction in provider payments. The House has finally declared that we cannot continue to kick the can down the road and patch the SGR each year – we must repeal it, and we did. Now, seniors will no longer be denied the care they need because their doctors cannot afford to treat them. “But perhaps most importantly, members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, in both chambers and on all three committees of jurisdiction have finally shown they can work together in an effective manner on policy so important to America’s seniors. It’s now up to the Senate to take up this important bill and repeal a system that simply doesn’t work.” ###
03.13.2014	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of his legislation to repeal and replace the Sustainable Growth Rate, which he introduced last month. Burgess, Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, said the bill repeals the SGR avoiding potentially devastating across-the-board cuts slated for 2014 and does so at a cost far lower than what Congress has already spent or would likely spend over the next 10 years. “This bill is consistent in its themes throughout: we provide payment stability, reduce and streamline administrative burden, increase predictability in provider’s interactions with CMS, build transparency into systems, encourage innovation in delivery of services, and keep providers in the driver’s seat,” he said. The bill has been supported by more than 750 organizations and is cosponsored by 118 bipartisan members of Congress. Burgess, who also sits on the House Rules Committee, delivered his statement while managing the rule for consideration of this bill, which is scheduled for a vote tomorrow, as well as for H.R. 3189, the Water Rights Protection. The full text of his statement on H.R. 4015 is below. “H.R. 4015, the SGR Repeal legislation, is an issue I have worked my entire congressional career to address. It reflects years of bipartisan, multi-committee and bicameral discussions and negotiations, bringing together Members of all ideological stripes as well as outside groups to coalesce around a policy to help doctors and their patients get out from under the constant threat of payment cuts under the current Sustainable Growth Rate structure for Medicare payments. “Everyone agrees that Medicare’s Sustainable Growth Rate has got to go but today we are considering an actual framework to realistically accomplish that goal. The SGR formula was enacted as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 in an ultimately misguided means by which to restrain federal spending in Medicare Part B. “The SGR consists of expenditure targets which are established by applying a growth rate which is designed to bring spending in line with the expenditure targets over time. Since 2002, the SGR formula has called for a reduction to physician reimbursement rates. However, Congress has consistently passed legislation to override the SGR. This has led this body to find over $150 billion dollars with no solution out of this annual mess. “If Congress were to let the SGR go into effect, physicians would face a 24 percent reduction in reimbursement rates in just a few weeks. The SGR’s unrealistic assumptions of spending and efficiency have plagued the healthcare profession and our Medicare beneficiaries. The bill before us repeals the SGR avoiding potentially devastating across-the-board cuts slated for 2014 and does so at a cost far lower than what Congress has already spent or would likely spend over the next 10 years. “We provide a period of payment transition - essential to allow us to ensure continued beneficiary access, allow medicine to concentrate on moving to broad adoption of quality reporting and allow Congress to move past the distraction of the SGR to identify Medicare reforms that can further benefit the beneficiaries. This will also allow providers the time to develop and test quality measures and clinical practice improvement activities, which will be used for performance assessment during Phase II. During this 5 year stability period, physicians will receive annual increases of 0.5% - above what has been provided over the past several years. “The quality measures implemented in what is called the Merit-Based Incentive Payment System, or MIPS will be evidenced-based, and developed through a transparent process that will seek input from provider groups. “Quality reporting will involve a provider being judged against their practice, rather than against a ‘one size fits all,’ generic standard of care that does not take into account the unique practice of various specialty providers. Providers will also self-determine their measures. We consolidate three reporting programs into MIPPS easing administrative burden while retaining the congressionally established goals of quality, resource use, and meaningful use. “The new reimbursement structure ensures continued access to high-quality care while providing physicians with certainty and security in their reimbursements. They will be aware of the benchmark they are competing against and unlike current law all penalties assessed from those not meeting the benchmark will go to those who are keeping these dollars in the Medicare system driving quality which only benefits our Medicare beneficiaries. “Standards against which providers will be measured will be developed by professional organizations in conjunction with existing programs and will incorporate ongoing feedback to physicians, thus further ensuring optimal care is provided to the patient. “Real-time feedback will be gained through registries and performance data, and physicians are encouraged to participate in the process through data reporting. For eligible professionals who choose to opt-out of the fee for service program, alternative payment models will be available. These APMs may include patient-centered medical homes, whether they are primary or specialty models, and bundles or episodes of care. By encouraging alternative payment models, and care coordination, our proposed solution will inspire innovation. Qualifying practices that move a significant amount of their patients into one of these APMs would see a 5% quality bonus. The bill will also take affirmative steps to improve the accuracy of relative values and misvalued services. “But even though we are taking these important steps towards ensuring quality care, the bill specifically states that these quality measures are not creating a federal right of action, or a legal standard of care or duty of care owed by a health care provider to a patient. “My friends on the other side of the aisle may disagree with having to pay for new spending, but this is an important reform that Republicans put in place when we reclaimed the majority in the 2010 elections. If you want to increase mandatory spending, you should reduce mandatory spending elsewhere. This is a simple concept that I think my constituents and most Americans would agree with. The Democrat substitute highlights the difference between the parties on this issue. Democrats have embraced a budget gimmick to offset their bill, a gimmick that even the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has stated is ‘unscorable’ and has no impact on the direct spending or revenues. Republicans want to reform the Medicare payment system in a responsible way that is fully paid for. “If my colleagues can find a legitimate offset, I would be happy to review it. In fact, this is exactly what we are asking of the United States Senate. You don’t like our offset, offer one of your own and let’s work together to pass these much needed reforms. “This bill is consistent in its themes throughout: we provide payment stability, reduce and streamline administrative burden, increase predictability in provider’s interactions with CMS, build transparency into systems, encourage innovation in delivery of services, and keep providers in the driver’s seat. “I encourage my colleagues to vote YES on the Rule and YES on the underlying bills. With that I reserve the balance of my time.” Burgess closed with the following remarks: “As I close, I would like to note that each Committee’s work is represented in HR 4015. HR 4015 base policy has the backing of the House and Senate negotiators and all three committees of jurisdiction. The original cosponsors of the bill include the chairmen and ranking members of the full committees of jurisdiction as well as their Health subcommittees. “The bill has gained the support of the GOP Doctor’s Caucus as well as many of the physicians on the other side of the aisle. We have over 100 bipartisan cosponsors. The bill’s policy has been embraced by organized medicine – with over 700 state and national groups in support of the bill. “From primary care to specialists to surgeons to organized nursing and everyone in between we have support for this policy. We will not be able to accomplish this goal without substantive and immediate bipartisan dialogue seeking agreement on reforms to offset the costs associated with the policies in HR 4015. While the delay of the mandate has received bipartisan support, I understand this offset has significant opposition. These reforms must receive the necessary majority support, not only of the House and Senate, but also be agreed to by the White House. “However, no one chamber can negotiate on such an important and substantive task in a vacuum. This action by the House is a means of clearly demonstrating that the legislative policies contained within HR 4015 and S. 2000 not only have the support of the committees of jurisdiction and organized medicine but can gain the necessary support to pass the House. “This is clearly not the end of the conversation but another small step forward in demonstrating to both sides of the Capitol that the committees of jurisdiction have produced substantive policy that can serve as the solution to the SGR that we have sought through our congressional careers. “I would also like to thank all the staff who have worked on this issue and will continue to work on this issue going forward. Every success we have had at each point in this process, was further than we had ever come and that involved a lot of work of weekends – but ultimately if we use this action to springboard to full bicameral engagement on the package that can go to the White House it will all be worth it. “I look forward to passage, and continuing this process with the other chamber to also embrace this underlying policy and ultimately identify offsets that will get this badly needed policy into law.” ###
03.05.2014	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of H.R. 4118, the Simple Fairness Act, which he said would offer “a legislative solution to help Americans get out from the crushing weight of the so-called Affordable Care Act.” Burgess, Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, said the bill would give hardworking Americans the same relief President Obama has already given to businesses by delaying the burdensome employer mandate twice in just one year. “Shouldn’t the same relief be provided for the American people?” he asked. Burgess, who also sits on the House Rules Committee, delivered his statement while managing the rule for consideration of this bill, which later passed the House, as well as for H.R. 3826, the Electricity Security and Affordability Act. The full text of his statement on H.R. 4118 is below. “The second bill contained in this rule, H.R. 4118, Suspending the Individual Mandate Penalty Law Equals Fairness Act, addresses the disparity that President Obama and Secretary Sebelius have created between big business, which has been given a reprieve in having to comply with the mandates contained in the Affordable Care Act, and individual Americans, who have been given no such help by this President. Just this week the press has reported the Administration will delay yet another provision of the Affordable Care Act by allowing insurers to continue offering health plans that do not meet the ACA’s minimum coverage requirements. “It is becoming so commonplace for this Administration to waive or ignore provisions of what it calls its ‘signature law’ that the American people seem not to even take notice anymore. There is little doubt that that is exactly what this President is hoping for. “In the last eight months, the President has delayed or modified more than 22 provisions of his signature health care law. The President has been quick to fix parts of the law that have political consequences for allies and protect his own talking points. Yet where is the President’s protection for the American people? “Under the health care law, Americans who don’t have health insurance and refuse to purchase a government-approved insurance policy will face an annual fine that increases every year. However, purchasing a government-approved plan also means paying unaffordable premiums, being forced to navigate a dysfunctional website, losing the doctor you like and placing your personal information in jeopardy on an unsecure website. “Today, Republicans are offering a legislative solution to help Americans get out from the crushing weight of the so-called Affordable Care Act. “H.R. 4118, also known as the Simple Fairness Act, will give hardworking American the same relief the President has already given to business. “The Administration had no problem delaying the employer mandate not just once for 2014, but a second time, for another full year for employers with 51-100 employees. Shouldn’t the same relief be provided for the American people? The President has refused to work with Congress to change the law so today we are moving ahead and doing what’s right for the American people. The Simple Fairness Act will eliminate the penalty in 2014 for those individuals who chose not to purchase a government-approved health care plan. “It is clear that H.R. 4118 offers the only feasible lifeline to millions of Americans who are faced with purchasing an expensive health care plan that does not meet their needs. “It is Congress’ job to protect the American people, and I urge my colleagues to pass this rule so Washington can stop making decisions about Americans health care and instead individuals can be free to decide for themselves.” ###
02.28.2014	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today announced that the GOP Doctors Caucus agreed to the principles in his legislation to repeal and replace the Sustainable Growth Rate, which he introduced earlier this month. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today announced that the GOP Doctors Caucus agreed to the policies in his legislation to repeal and replace the Sustainable Growth Rate, which he introduced earlier this month. In a letter today to House Speaker John Boehner, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, the members of the Doc Caucus said the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act, H.R. 4015 and S. 2000, is the first bicameral, bipartisan solution to the SGR since 1997. “After taking time to review the legislative framework, the House GOP Doctors Caucus has agreed to the policies contained within this compromise proposal,” the Members wrote. “With physicians and patients facing a March 31 deadline before the current patch expires, we must act now to repeal a flawed policy that threatens patients’ access to care.” Burgess, who introduced the bill earlier this month, said he was happy to report the endorsement of the bill by fellow physicians and health care providers in the House. “If anyone knows how destructive and pernicious the SGR has been to America’s seniors, it’s doctors,” Burgess said. “This bill puts medicine back in charge and allows providers to work collaboratively with CMS to determine the appropriate methodology to accurately measure quality. In addition, by maintaining a fee for service option, more providers are likely to remain in the system. The progress we have made this year toward repealing and replacing the SGR is unparalleled, but it is not the end of our efforts. We will continue to fight for a stable update beyond the first five years.” This agreement repeals the flawed SGR formula and replaces it with a system focused on quality, value, and accountability. It incentivizes the highest quality of care for seniors with the use of quality measures determined by physicians and stakeholders themselves, and ensures that providers compete on a level playing field to deliver the best care possible to Medicare beneficiaries. This agreement provides for five years of 0.5 percent positive updates in physician payments as well as a provision to determine what further updates may be necessary. This is intended to prevent harmful cuts to Medicare physicians that would ultimately threaten seniors’ access to care. Ultimately, the agreement seeks to strengthen the integrity of the Medicare program and protect seniors’ access to quality care. The bill was unanimously reported out of the House Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means Committees, as well as the Senate Finance Committee. It currently has more than 30 cosponsors, including the support of Democratic physicians. To read the letter, click here. ###
02.27.2014	Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today delivered the following opening statement as prepared for delivery at a hearing titled “Counterfeit Drugs: Fighting Illegal Supply Chains”: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today delivered the following opening statement as prepared for delivery at a hearing titled “Counterfeit Drugs: Fighting Illegal Supply Chains”: “The market for prescription drugs has been the catalyst for a continuing series of frauds against American manufacturers and has provided the cover for counterfeit drugs. The effect of these practices and conditions is to create an unacceptable risk that counterfeit, adulterated, misbranded, sub-potent or expired drugs will be sold to American consumers. “Are these findings from today’s Committee memo? “While they could be, they are, in fact, from the findings of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA) of 1987. That bipartisan law was the result of a series of hearings conducted under Chairman Emeritus Dingell by this very subcommittee. In the report accompanying the bill, this Committee found: ‘American consumers cannot purchase prescription drugs with the certainty that the products are safe and effective. This is not to say that the shelves of the Nation’s pharmacies are lined with substandard products, or that there are inadequate controls in the manufacturing process. Rather, the integrity of the distribution system is insufficient to prevent the introduction and eventual retail sale of substandard, ineffective or even counterfeit pharmaceuticals.’ “The U.S. has the best drug supply chain in the world, and while the Committee’s work in this area is long and notable, as medications have become more advanced, our supply chain faces equally consistent and sophisticated attacks each and every day by counterfeiters, rogue distributers and those willing to adulterate product. “According to the World Health Organization, in 2010, worldwide counterfeit medicine sales topped $75 billion, a 90% rise in five years. Some speculate that number may continue to grow by 20% each year. Medicines purchased from illegal websites have been found to be counterfeit in over 50% of cases. “International Policy Network, a British think tank, approximates that worldwide there are 700,000 deaths a year caused by fake malaria and tuberculosis drugs, with 100,000 deaths in Africa according to the World Health Organization. “At its most extreme, these criminals are willing to literally risk patients’ lives to sell counterfeits. As a physician, such immorality of knowingly sentencing a patient to death by denying them a treatment disturbs me to my core. “In my opinion, punishment for counterfeiting prescription medication is far from adequate. From fake flu vaccines to oncology drugs -- counterfeit medications have been able to enter the supply chain and even been administered. “Detecting a counterfeit drug is very difficult, if not impossible. No field test can be performed to indicate whether a drug is fake or real, and even trained experts are often unable to detect whether a drug is what it purports to be. Counterfeit and other altered drugs present an unreasonable risk to Americans. “Thankfully, this Committee has remained vigilant and I believe the passage of the Drug Quality and Security Act last year will provide an invaluable tool – which was too long in the making – to further tighten our distribution system. “While our system might be the best in the world, our healthcare workforce does not have the confidence they should that the drugs they are dispensing or administering are the ones that came from the manufacturer. “I will also note that a December 2005 report found that nearly half of the imported drugs the FDA intercepted from four selected countries to fill orders placed with firms consumers thought were Canadian, in fact, 85 percent actually came from 27 other countries around the globe. A number of these products also were found to be counterfeit. “Maintaining the integrity of the United States’ prescription drug supply is a compelling national priority that requires national solutions involving business, healthcare providers, and government coming together and being vigilant in the face of these threats. “The vigilance of this Committee continues today.” ###
02.26.2014	Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today prepared the following opening statement to be delivered at a hearing titled “Messing With Success: How CMS’ Attack on the Part D Program Will Increase Costs and Reduce Choices for Seniors”: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Vice-Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today prepared the following opening statement to be delivered at a hearing titled “Messing With Success: How CMS’ Attack on the Part D Program Will Increase Costs and Reduce Choices for Seniors”: "The end of 2013 marked the 10-year anniversary of the creation of the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit. Not only has Part D come in at 45 percent under budget, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has reduced its 10-year projections for Part D by over $100 billion in each of the last three years. "Part D’s success is largely attributable to its competitive, free-market structure. "Despite a proven track record of success, CMS has proposed to fundamentally restructure the Part D program, allowing the government to interfere in private plan negotiations, restrict beneficiary choice of plans, and limit incentives that lower costs for consumers. Only in Washington would there be a big government solution in search of a problem that does not exist. "CMS’ interference is projected to eliminate 50% of current Part D drug plans in 2015 - driving premiums higher for nearly 14 million seniors and increase costs in the entire Medicare program. "Even more concerning is CMS’ proposal to eliminate several of the “Protected Classes” under Part D. The protected classes were designed to ensure vulnerable patients have continual access to life-saving drugs. Not all drugs are inter-changeable, especially in the case of Immunosuppressants. The science of how these drugs operate has not changed, so why should the policy? "The removal of these drugs from protected class status risks the lives of current and future beneficiaries, further jeopardizing transplanted organs and patients’ lives. "Yet again, CMS has proposed a policy that is “penny-wise and pound-foolish”. Not only has the program increased patient access to drugs and made positive effects on the health of beneficiaries, the program has extended the solvency of the entire Medicare program, saving billions of dollars over the past ten years. "Rather than continue a successful program and encourage innovation, CMS has chosen to ruin one of the only “working parts” in our current healthcare system, leaving patients and taxpayers with the short end of the stick." More information can be found at http://energycommerce.house.gov/hearing/messing-success-how-cms%E2%80%99-attack-part-d-program-will-increase-costs-and-reduce-choices ###
02.26.2014	Reps. Michael Burgess (TX-26) and Gene Green (D-TX) yesterday introduced a bill to reauthorize grant programs to save critical trauma systems in the U.S. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Reps. Michael Burgess (TX-26) and Gene Green (D-TX) yesterday introduced a bill to reauthorize grant programs to save critical trauma systems in the U.S. The Trauma Systems Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act, H.R. 4080, would reauthorize two important grant mechanisms, the Trauma Care Systems Planning Grants and the Regionalization of Emergency Care Systems. The first supports state and rural development of trauma systems and the second funds pilot projects to design, implement, and evaluate innovative models of regionalized emergency care. It would also direct states to update their model trauma care plan with the input of updated stakeholders one year after enactment. “The assumption that trauma care will always be there when we need it is sadly untrue,” Burgess said. “Forty-two states lack fully developed trauma systems. To let another system atrophy is to let the disparity between areas with access to trauma care and those that don’t increase until entire states lack critical care that will save its residents when the unthinkable happens. We cannot let that happen.” “Trauma is the leading cause of death for Americans under the age of 45,” Green said. “The even bigger tragedy is that many of these deaths could be prevented if victims had access to trauma care within an hour of a severe traumatic injury.” The regionalization of Trauma Care Systems would make immediate and effective care available to patients around the country, and accessibility is the difference between life and death. The bill has been supported by the American Association of Neurological Surgeons, the American Association of Orthopedic Surgeons, the American Burn Association, the Association of Critical Care Transport the American College of Emergency Physicians, the American College of Surgeons, the American Trauma Society, the Congress of Neurological Surgeons, the Orthopedic Trauma Association and the Trauma Center Association of America. Burgess, a physician for nearly three decades, and Green have been longtime partners on this issue. Burgess and Green both serve on the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. ###
02.20.2014	Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittees on Health and Oversight and Investigations, today signed onto a letter to the chief executive of Accenture, the newest contractor hired by the Obama administration to oversee HealthCare.gov and the administration’s efforts to complete the building of the federally facilitated marketplace (FFM). share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittees on Health and Oversight and Investigations, today signed onto a letter to the chief executive of Accenture, the newest contractor hired by the Obama administration to oversee HealthCare.gov and the administration’s efforts to complete the building of the federally facilitated marketplace (FFM). According to recent reports by the Washington Post, Accenture obtained the $91 million contract for HealthCare.gov during an “abbreviated” contracting process in which three other companies were considered. In the letter, Burgess and several other committee leaders requested a briefing with staff to explain how Accenture was selected for the contract, the terms of the contract, what work has been completed and a “detailed description of how Accenture is handling the transition of HealthCare.com and the FFM from the supervision of CGI Federal to Accenture.” The members also requested documents regarding Accenture’s work and communications with the administration and the White House. “As the American public continues to struggle with the mess that is HealthCare.gov, it is our responsibility as leaders on the Energy and Commerce Committee to fully understand private companies like Accenture’s role in the FFM,” Burgess said. “It is our hope that Mr. Moskovitz will provide his briefing to the committee in a timely manner.” In addition to Burgess, the letter was signed by full committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA), Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-PA), Chairman Emeritus Joe Barton (R-TX), and full committee Vice Chairman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN). Click here to read the full text of the letter. ###
02.18.2014	Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX) today announced the hiring of his new Communications Director, Jill Shatzen. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX) today announced the hiring of his new Communications Director, Jill Shatzen. Shatzen joins the Burgess office after having worked as Press Secretary for Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), who announced his retirement in December. Previously, she worked as Press Assistant and Legislative Correspondent in the office of former Rep. Mary Bono (R-CA). “Jill’s previous Capitol Hill experience and background in journalism will serve us well,” Burgess said. “We look forward to having her join the team.” Shatzen graduated from the University of Florida in 2010 with a Bachelor’s degree in Journalism. She was born in Houston, TX, but primarily grew up in Miami, FL and McLean, VA. ###
02.14.2014	Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX) this week introduced legislation that would eliminate the Central Intelligence Agency’s (CIA) use of drones abroad and transfer that authority solely to the Department of Defense (DOD). share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX) this week introduced legislation that would eliminate the Central Intelligence Agency’s (CIA) use of drones abroad and transfer that authority solely to the Department of Defense (DOD). The 2014 Omnibus, which was recently signed into law, includes a classified section that limits the transfer of authority to carry out drone strikes from the CIA to the Pentagon, which effectively allows the CIA to continue to carry out these unmanned aircraft strikes abroad and limits DOD’s involvement. This legislation, H.R. 4036, would cease the CIA’s use of drones and instead allow DOD to carry them out. “The role of the CIA has always been to gather intelligence which the DOD and the armed forces may use to carry out military action, but the provision in the Omnibus that gives CIA more authority to carry out drone strikes dangerously blurs the lines of jurisdiction between the two,” Burgess said. “The CIA historically has never been involved in strategic defense work other than gathering information that is of use to our highest-ranking military officials, who are trained specifically to do this work. By giving our intelligence community exclusive authority to do what should be the work of DOD, it compromises CIA’s ability to do its core intelligence-gathering work, and frankly, it oversteps its mission statement by a longshot. “That’s why it’s critically important to pass this bill so that authority to carry out drone strikes is exclusively in the hands of DOD where it belongs,” Burgess said. Burgess’ legislation has been referred to the House Committees on Intelligence and Armed Services. ###
02.11.2014	Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX) today issued the following statement after voting against raising the debt ceiling: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX) today issued the following statement after voting against raising the debt ceiling: “As our nation’s debt approaches a crippling $17.3 trillion dollars – or $140,000 per American household – it is irresponsible to raise our debt limit to allow more spending and effectively write a blank check to borrow more money for an entire year. “Instead, we must find ways to cut unnecessary government programs and expensive red tape. Unless we get our runaway spending under control, our children and grandchildren will bear the burden of a once-great nation in decline.” ###
02.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Vice-Chairman on the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today attended a hearing titled “Examining Drug Shortages and Recent Efforts to Address Them.” Burgess issued the following opening statement: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Vice-Chairman on the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today attended a hearing titled “Examining Drug Shortages and Recent Efforts to Address Them.” Burgess issued the following opening statement: “When doctors don’t have essential tools, they may be restricted in what they can do for patients. Members of this Committee took the lead and have made major strides in working to reduce drug shortages by passing the Food Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act in 2012. “Additionally, I have worked very closely with Chairmen Upton and Pitts on several of the provisions. Things have gotten better. However, the problems have not fully gone away. As recently as February 5th, the FDA has listed sodium chloride injection bags as a drug shortage. “FDA has a role in addressing drug shortages, but this is a complex and serious issue. In 2010, more than 240 drugs were in short supply or were unavailable, and more than 400 generic equivalents were backordered. “Many generic lines operate at margins so tight that when production becomes corrupted they cannot afford to revamp machinery. This inevitably leads one to the backlog of more than 3,000 generic applications. “Physicians are still faced with having to tell patients that they cannot receive the care they need not because there is no treatment, but because a product is simply not available. “I thank the Chairman for holding this hearing so we can learn more on the progress being made on our nation’s drug shortage problem. I am pleased that the GAO report is being released, and I look forward to hearing from GAO on their findings. “This law aimed to ensure providers the tools they need to alleviate the suffering of every patient. I look forward to hearing today if it is in fact achieving that goal.” ###
01.31.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX - 26) released the following statement regarding House Republicans' principles to guide future immigration legislation. share: f t Washington, D.C. - Following the release of House Republicans’ principles to guide future immigration legislation, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX – 26) released the following statement: “Amnesty by any other name is still amnesty. I oppose amnesty and any path leading to the legalization of people who have entered our country illegally. Right now our obligation is to the 11 million citizens looking for work. Opening doors to additional competition is ill-advised at a time when our economy is still struggling under the harmful policies of the current administration. Enforcing existing law would go a long way to solving our problem. We must remove the limitations preventing all employers from utilizing the effective E-verify system to prevent illegal immigrants from obtaining employment. The United States has a sovereign right to define and defend its border, as every nation on earth has done since the beginning of time. Barack Obama has proven himself untrustworthy at enforcing existing law. I see no advantage to giving new laws to this president which he would simply ignore. Until our border is secure, the conversation can go no further.” ###
01.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union address share: f t Washington, D.C. – This evening, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union address. “Over the past hour, during the State of the Union speech dubbed a ‘year of action,’ the President has found new ways to embrace unilateralism through executive action and bypassing Congress,” said Dr. Burgess. “The simple truth is that by not building a consensus or learning how to work with Congress during his first five years in office, the President is now resorting to circumventing the legislative process altogether. That is not how effective government works.” “House Republicans are focused on results, and despite our differences with the President, we agree that a ‘year of action’ is necessary. That is why we remain resolute on creating jobs, growing our economy and reducing our national debt. If indeed this is to be a ‘year of action’ maybe it’s time that the Democratic leadership in the Senate listen to the President and the American people and take up the bills that House Republicans have passed.” ###
01.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the president changing the current National Security Agency (NSA) telephone data collection program. share: f t Burgess Statement on President’s Changes to NSA Program Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the president changing the current National Security Agency (NSA) telephone data collection program. “Today’s announced changes to the National Security Agency’s Section 215 metadata collection program is an admission by President Obama of the overreach of government that has occurred under his watch. While the program was authorized before his taking office in 2009, mission creep has made it unsustainable. “At the same time, making changes to the way intelligence is gathered and collected by the U.S. government is the job of Congress, not for the president to unilaterally decide not to follow the law. Today’s announcement is yet another in a long line of decisions by this administration to ignore the law.” ###
01.15.2014	Burgess Statement on Budget Vote Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the passage of the $1.1 Trillion Omnibus spending bill. “Today I voted against the budget because it increases spending and it fails our veterans. Removing the spending caps imposed by sequestration, and further raising the national debt is unacceptable. For the first time in 50 years we have reduced the budget for two consecutive years, a needed first step in fixing our ongoing debt problem. Undoing our progress by passing a $1 Trillion budget I feel moves in the wrong direction. Increasing spending is a problem, but doing it at the expense of our veterans is unconscionable. We made a pledge to these Americans who have sacrificed so much for our country; I’m disappointed that some in Washington were so willing to cut their benefits. Because of these problems, in good conscience I couldn’t vote for today’s budget.” ###
01.08.2014	Burgess Releases 2013 Annual Report Washington, D.C. – Today, Dr. Burgess released his 2013 Year End Annual Report. The report showcases his 2013 legislative work and accomplishments, media communication, constituent services, and correspondence with North Texans. “It is important to show constituents the work I am doing on their behalf, and this is my report to them on the accomplishments we’ve made in 2013,” said Dr. Burgess. “My office performs a variety of services; everything from drafting legislation to helping constituents work with various federal agencies, and I want them to know that I am working hard for North Texans.” Some of Dr. Burgess’ 2013 accomplishments include: · Participated in 86 hearings and Markups in the Energy and Commerce Committee · Participated in 56 hearings in the Rules Committee · Cast 641 votes, 97.3% vote attendance record · Co-sponsored 167 bills · Authored and introduced 19 pieces of legislation · Opened 500 cases with federal agencies on behalf of constituents · Received and responded to over 54,000 pieces of correspondence · Held or attended over 400 events · Assisted in having 86 flags flown over the U.S. Capitol · Mentioned in 1,302 newspaper articles or blogs posts · Conducted 107 radio interviews and 70 television interviews · Issued 48 press releases · Delivered the Republican Weekly Address “For the past year,” said Dr. Burgess. “ I’ve done my best to represent you in and advocate on behalf of your interests in Washington. While we have made lot of progress in the last year to get our economy back on track and reign in the spending and over reach of the government, there is still a lot of work left to be done. In the coming year, I will continue my commitment to working on behalf of a pro-growth, pro-jobs agenda. We need to make government more efficient, and reduce the bureaucratic burdens and over regulation that are stifling our economy. With dedication and commitment, we can build this great county back, and we can create a better future for our children and grandchildren.” Click on the image below to review the 2013 Year End Annual Report. Constituents can download the 2013 Year End Annual Report and past reports on Dr. Burgess’ website:/YearEndReport.
11.27.2013	U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville) praised the ruling of a federal bankruptcy judge bringing the merger between American Airlines and US Airways closer to completion. share: f t Burgess Applauds American Airlines Merger as “One Step Closer” Lewisville, TX – U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville) praised the ruling of a federal bankruptcy judge bringing the merger between American Airlines and US Airways closer to completion. Today, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York Judge Sean Lane ruled that American Airlines’ settlement with the Department of Justice does not disrupt American’s bankruptcy reorganization plan. “Today, Judge Lane made a sensible ruling that paves the way and brings American Airlines and US Airways one step closer to completing their merger. Not only was this decision the right one for the two airlines and frequent flyers, but also businesses everywhere that want to make their own decisions about what is best for them without needless government interference.” With this ruling today, a final legal hurdle is cleared and the two airlines are scheduled to complete their merger on December 9th. ###
11.20.2013	U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville) recently recognized the three veterans who received this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC was created in 2005 to honor the distinguished living veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. share: f t Congressman Burgess Honors Local Veterans Lewisville, TX – U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville) recently recognized the three veterans who received this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC was created in 2005 to honor the distinguished living veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. This year’s commendations were presented at the eleventh annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association and the City of Highland Village. Nominations were solicited from the public and those chosen to receive this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation are Gilbert Brown (Sergeant - US Army) of Lewisville, Jerry Galler (Storekeeper 3rd Class– US Navy) of Highland Village, and James Rosengren (Major – US Army) of Flower Mound. “These extraordinary individuals were honored for their patriotic, dedicated service in the Armed Forces of the United States and continued beneficial service to their communities,” said Rep. Burgess. “They have not only served in our armed forces but have also continued their dedication to the nation by working tirelessly on behalf of their fellow veterans and serving the people of their communities.” LtGen Charles R. Hamm, USAF (Ret.) who chaired the Congressional Veteran Commendation Review Board and was a past recipient, presented this year’s commendations on behalf of Congressman Burgess who was unable to attend the luncheon due to legislative business. Other members of the Review Board and past recipients as well are Thomas Blagg, Johnnie Bulen, Julius Fambry and Sue Hechinger. “Thank you again to all the veterans for your service to the United State of America,” said Rep. Burgess. “On behalf of the citizens of the 26th District and of a grateful nation, we are forever in your debt.” Photo: View the Photo Here (pictured l-r) LtGen Charlie Hamm, Jerry Galler, Gilbert Brown, James Rosengren, Highland Village Mayor Pat Davis ###
11.19.2013	This morning, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) made the following statement at the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation Hearing regarding the security of the healthcare.gov website share: f t Burgess Opening Statement Oversight Hearing on the Security of HealthCare.gov Washington, D.C. — This morning, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) made the following statement at the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation Hearing regarding the security of the healthcare.gov website: “I think everyone here would agree that the implementation of the Affordable Care Act is quickly going from bad to worse. Meager enrollment numbers, a website full of glitches and errors, cancelled plans, and broken promises from the President are just the start. These initial problems simply break the surface of the deeper issues that lie ahead for the law. Mr. Chao’s prediction back in March that enrollment in ACA would be a “third-world experience” seems now to be exactly correct. However, it was also Mr. Chao who recommended it was safe to launch the website Oct. 1. What happened in those six months that led Mr. Chao and the Administration to believe the law was ready for primetime? Not only did CMS fail to establish basic functionality of the website, but healthcare.gov’s flaws continue to pose a threat to the security of Americans’ personal data. As a physician, my primary rule of practice is “First, do no harm.” If I know something will be detrimental to my patients, I don’t do it. In this case, CMS knew of the problems before October 1. Mr. Chao and his team knew that a multitude of gaps remained in the security infrastructure – making the website a wide open target for hackers and identity thieves. This is about much more than a faulty website. This is about the American people who cannot trust their government to certify that their personal information will be safe on a government-run website. After spending hundreds of millions of dollars of taxpayer dollars, the American people deserve to know, who is responsible? Who can they hold accountable for failing to protect their personal information? It is the American people who are suffering because of the mismanagement and failures of this Administration. It is time they get some answers.” ###
10.30.2013	This morning, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement before the Secretary Kathleen Sebelius testified before the Energy and Commerce Committee share: f t ACA Implementation Failures: Answers from HHS This morning, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) made the following statement before the Secretary Kathleen Sebelius testified before the Energy and Commerce Committee: The Affordable Care Act is quickly becoming the poster child for the failure of big government. It’s a stunning train wreck that is coming down the tracks toward us. Since the law was passed in 2010 this Committee has repeatedly questioned the officials from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the Treasury Department, and the White House. I was told, time and time again, by all of these officials that the ACA would “definitely” be ready to go live on October 1, 2013. On February 16, 2011, the former director of the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight (CCIIO), Mr. Steve Larsen, assured me everything would work on Day 1: Mr. {Burgess.} You are betting on all this stuff working. Mr. {Larsen.} I think we are going to flip the switch and the lights are going to go on On April 18, 2013, Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of Health and Human Services, sat before the Energy and Commerce Committee and told me: Dr. {Burgess.} They are to go live online on October 1st. And I guess the question on everyone's mind this morning is, will you be ready? Secretary {Sebelius.} Yes, sir, and the exchanges— Dr. {Burgess.} I will take that as a yes. Secretary {Sebelius.} Open enrollment will start October 1st. The exchanges will be up and running on January 1st. Dr. {Burgess.} Are you talking about work around plans? Sebelius: No, we are not. We are moving ahead. We have the federal hub on track and on time. We are moving ahead with the marketplaces that we will be individually responsible for and we’re working very closely with our state partners on their plans and their time table for the state based marketplaces. Dr. {Burgess.} So the federal hub will be available? Secretary {Sebelius} Yes. The following week, on April 24, 2013, Gary Cohen, the current director of CCIIO, testified before the Energy and Commerce Committee: Dr. {Burgess.} The Secretary was here last week and I asked her about contingency plans and she said there are no contingency plans. Everything will be ready. So which is it? Everything will be ready or you are planning for contingencies? Mr. {Cohen.} Everything will be ready but we are also planning for anything that, when we go into operation, if the situations come up that we need to address, we will be ready to address those situations and make sure that the experience for American consumers is as seamless and as good as it can be. On August 1, 2013, Marilyn Tavenner, the current CMS Administrator, testified before the Energy and Commerce Committee: Dr. {Burgess} When can Texans expect to go online and be able to get information about how expensive coverage will be in the exchange? {Ms. Tavenner.} So the information about what is available in the exchange will be available to them October 1. And just a little over one month ago, on September 19, 2013, days before the Exchanges were scheduled to go live, Gary Cohen, CCIIO Director, testified before the Energy and Commerce Committee again: Dr. {Burgess} Will the enrollment process be ready October 1 of this year? Mr. {Cohen.} Consumers will be able to go online, they will be able to get a determination of what tax subsidies they are eligible for, they will be able to look at the plans that are available where they live, they will be able to see the premium net of subsidy that they would have to pay, and they will be able to choose a plan and get enrolled in coverage beginning October 1. Yet, here we are, 30 days after October 1 and the American people are still waiting to see a fully-functional law. The failures of the healthcare.gov website are just the beginning of the dysfunction that is to come as the implementation of President’s signature law moves forward into 2014. After spending hundreds of millions of dollars the American people deserve some concrete answers and not empty political posturing. In addition to the hearings this Committee held to question Administration officials, I had private meetings with Jay Angoff, former CCIIO director and later senior adviser to Sebelius; Nancy Deparle, former Director of WH Office of Health Reform; Henry Chao, Deputy Chief Information Officer; and Steve Larsen, former CCIIO director. It seems I was having the meetings the Secretary was supposed to be having. Despite the array of public and private meetings with officials from the range of agencies involved in implementing the President’s health care law, I still do not have the answers to questions about the law’s basic functionality. At this point, I’m not even sure who is in charge of this program because no one knows what is going on. Unless someone is willing to admit that there are problems, how can we ever hope to fix it?" ###
10.24.2013	This morning, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) questioned some of the contractors that build the health exchange websites during a House Energy and Commerce hearing. After the hearing he made the following statement: share: f t Burgess Questions ACA Website Contractors “There wasn't anywhere near enough testing of this system.” Washington, D.C. — This morning, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) questioned some of the contractors that build the health exchange websites during a House Energy and Commerce hearing. After the hearing he made the following statement: “At today’s hearing we received confirmation out what I have been saying for months: there wasn't anywhere near enough testing of this system. The contractors today testified that they needed months to properly test the website, but where only given two weeks, even after asking for more testing. It’s irresponsible of the Department of Health and Human Services to rollout out such complex software without testing it properly. I’m frustrated by the number of questions that are left to be answered. Who gave the order to turn off the browsable, so that people would have to give all of their data before getting a quote? When will the website be ready? Who made the decision to limit the amount of testing? At today’s hearing all the contractors said that all of their software worked fine, but that it was someone else’s fault. Unless someone is willing to admit that there are problems, how can we ever hope to fix it? I hope Sec. Sibelius is prepared to answer our questions next week when she testifies.” ###
10.23.2013	Washington, D.C. — Tomorrow morning, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will join the Energy and Commerce for a hearing on the current problems in implementing the Affordable Care Act. share: f t Burgess to Question ACA Website Contractors at Committee Hearing “I’m looking forward to hearing the contractor’s views of these problems and hopefully get some straight answers as to what is going on.” Washington, D.C. — Tomorrow morning, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will join the Energy and Commerce for a hearing on the current problems in implementing the Affordable Care Act. “This hearing will be a needed first step in getting to the bottom of the problem with the health care exchanges,” said Congressman Burgess. “For weeks now the administration has been spinning the problems that Americans are experiencing when trying to buy insurance through the exchanges. After spending hundreds of millions of dollars the American people deserve some concrete answers and not empty political posturing.” Some of the contractors responsible for building the health care exchanges are scheduled to testify at the hearing. Witnesses will include Cheryl Campbell of CGI Federal, Andrew Slavitt of Optum/QSSI, Lynn Spellecy of Equifax Workforce Solutions and John Lau of Serco. “For weeks now,” continued Burgess, “the administration has downplayed the problems as simple “glitches” and claimed the problems were from the high volume of web traffic. Only recently has the truth started to come out. Throughout these problems the administration never hesitated to blame their contractors for the failure of the health care exchanges. I’m looking forward to hearing the contractor’s views of these problems and hopefully get some straight answers as to what is going on.” The Energy and Commerce committee hearing will be held on October 24th at 9:00am in the Rayburn House Office Building. The hearing will also be aired on C-SPAN2. ###
10.15.2013	Burgess To Attend Medal of Honor Ceremony Washington, D.C. — This afternoon Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will attend the Medal of Honor Ceremony for Captain William Swenson at the White House. “I’m proud to join the ceremony to honor Captain Swenson for his heroism during the Battle of Ganjgal,” said Congressman Burgess. “Captain Swenson’s exemplarily actions on that day and throughout his military career make him worthy of this honor. I’m heartened that he is finally getting the recognition for his bravery that he so clearly deserves.” Swenson is the first United States Army Officer to receive the Medal of Honor since the Vietnam War. He will be honored for his bravery during the Battle of Ganjgal on September 8, 2009, where he repeatedly risked his life in order to rescue wounded American and Afghan soldiers. He will receive his commendation from President Obama in a White House ceremony at 2pm. ###
10.05.2013	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Michael Burgess released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 3223, The Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act. share: f t Burgess Statement On Pay For Furloughed Workers Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Michael Burgess released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 3223, The Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act. "Today, I was pleased today to vote in favor of H.R. 3223. As the Defense Department and other agencies are recalling furloughed workers for Monday, this legislation will ensure that they are paid and not harmed by the Harry Reid and President Obama’s continued unwillingness to negotiate a budget for our government." ###
10.01.2013	Notice of Government Shutdown Operations Due to the lapse of appropriated funds at midnight September 30, 2013, normal operations of the United States Government are suspended until funding is restored. Many United States Government employees will be furloughed, and it is likely that most federal agencies will be closed. Therefore, it is likely that if a constituent tried to contact an agency with a question or concern, the call will go unanswered until the government reopens. As such, the office of the 26th District of Texas may be the only possible point of contact in the federal government for constituents who need federal assistance during the furlough period. This assistance is even more imperative as Americans face the first day of Affordable Care Act enrollment on October 1. With respect to the House of Representatives, functions which entail or directly support the legislative process and the House’s other constitutional responsibilities, or that entail safe-guarding of human life, or the protection of property, are permitted to continue. We recognize the difficulty and anxiety this situation creates for the American people and we want to be of assistance. The DC and Lewisville offices representing the 26th District of Texas will remain open and staffed, during regular business hours, until the federal government reopens. Please contact our office if we can be of any assistance to you: DC Office 202-225-7772; Lewisville, TX Office 972-434-9700.
09.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – This afternoon Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), voted in favor of H.J. RES. 59, a continuing resolution for the fiscal year of 2014. The continuing resolution ensures that the government will be funded until December 15th, while simultaneously removing the discretionary funding for the Affordable Care Act. The legislation passed by a 230 – 189 margin in the House of Representatives. share: f t Burgess Supports Continuing Resolution “ I’m very thankful for the hard work of Senator Cruz, we wouldn’t be here today if it weren’t for his vision and his leadership.” Washington, D.C. – This afternoon Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), voted in favor of H.J. RES. 59, a continuing resolution for the fiscal year of 2014. The continuing resolution ensures that the government will be funded until December 15th, while simultaneously removing the discretionary funding for the Affordable Care Act. The legislation passed by a 230 – 189 margin in the House of Representatives. “I’m grateful for the fact”, said Burgess, “that we are here today with this opportunity to deliver for the American people. I’m also very thankful for the hard work of Senator Cruz, we wouldn’t be here today if it weren’t for his vision and his leadership.” “It has been increasingly clear for a long time”, continued Burgess “how dangerous this bill is to people’s health and our economy. The administration has all but admitted the failure of this legislation as they’ve continually delayed and discarded of parts of the law. It’s time for us to stop throwing money at this flawed legislation and get to work providing real health care solutions for American families.” In Case You Missed It: The Texas Republican delegation of the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter today to every member of the United States Senate, urging senators to unite with them in the effort to defund Obamacare through the continuing resolution. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF of the letter with signatures click here. “The Republicans in the House have stood up for the health and well-being of the American people and sent a clear message to President Obama: Obamacare is destroying jobs, reducing full-time jobs to part-time jobs, ending health insurance policies that people want to keep, and forcing doctors that patients loved to leave the practice of medicine. Obamacare is causing insurance rates and healthcare costs to skyrocket. Real people are being told they will not get the procedures or medical devices they need. Doctors and patients need to make these life-and-death decisions, not Obamacare bureaucrats, especially when the consequences could be fatal. The House has voted 41 times to defund, delay and repeal this flawed law, and we have successfully repealed seven hurtful, abusive and wasteful Obamacare programs. Today we passed a continuing resolution to ensure that no more taxpayer dollars are wasted on Obamacare. Now, it is up to the Republicans and like-minded Democrats in the Senate to continue the charge to defend the American people from this disaster to their health and finances. We urge you to use all of the legislative tools at your disposal, including the filibuster, to protect America from this train wreck. Now is the time for the Senate to stand up for all those constituents who spoke so passionately at our town hall meetings about the irreparable harm Obamacare is causing. They did not want it passed; it is worse than they thought; so now they want it stopped. We urge you to stand with us.” Read the FULL text of the letter, here. ###
09.17.2013	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on Congressman Tom Graves' continuing resolution. share: f t Congressman Burgess’ Statement on Co-sponsoring the Graves Bill Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on Congressman Tom Graves' continuing resolution, H.J.RES.62. "Today, I was pleased to sign on as a co-sponsor to Representative Graves’ continuing resolution. While the proposal is not perfect, it funds the government for a year but it delays and defunds the Affordable Care Act for that same year. The President’s takeover of health care is fraught with problems. Even the administration and its allies in the labor unions now admit this. Clearly this is not the time to stifle economic recovery with the Affordable Care Act and this Graves bill prevents that from happening." ###
09.11.2013	Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the one year anniversary of the attack on our consulate in Benghazi. share: f t Congressman Burgess’ Statement on the Benghazi Investigation Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the one year anniversary of the attack on our consulate in Benghazi. “On this solemn date, we remember all those who lost their lives 12 years ago in the September 11th attacks. It is also important, however, that we remember those who were killed in the attacks on our consulate in Benghazi one year ago today. While some of the details of that attack have been uncovered, there is still much work to be done. I am as committed as ever to uncovering the truth as to why American lives were lost on that day, why there was no U.S. response and how we can keep it from happening again. Despite the administration’s early claims that this was not a terrorist attack, the efforts of five congressional Committees have found otherwise. Over the course of seven committee hearings, 19 classified briefings, and the review of thousands of page of documents, their work has uncovered substantial flaws in embassy security and counter-terrorism policy. There is still significant investigation left to be done as to the conditions that led to the attack on our consulate, as well as the failure of the administration to bring the perpetrators to justice. I urge Congress to continue their vital oversight role in finding out the truth behind this attack and ensuring that it can never happen again.” ###
09.06.2013	Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement in regard to President Obama’s request for authorization to use military action in Syria. share: f t Congressman Burgess’ Statement on Syrian Military Intervention Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement in regard to President Obama’s request for authorization to use military action in Syria. “Since the classified briefing on Sunday, it has been clear to me that taking military action in Syria would be a mistake. Given reports that Al Qaeda has a significant presence among the Syrian rebels, it’s unclear that we have allies on either side in this civil war. Additionally, it has become obvious that the administration has no long term plans on how to handle the situation. Involving our military in this conflict would not be in our national interest, and I will oppose authorizing the President to act.” ###
09.03.2013	Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder regarding recent Department of Justice actions to block the merger between American Airlines and US Airways. share: f t Burgess Letter to Eric Holder Regarding American Airlines Merger “This is yet another attempt by the administration to stifle business and free enterprise and instead create needless government overregulation.” Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder regarding recent Department of Justice actions to block the merger between American Airlines and US Airways. “I have grave concerns,” said Congressman Burgess, “about the recent actions taken by the Department of Justice to block the merger of American Airlines and US Airways. This is yet another attempt by the administration to stifle business and free enterprise and instead create needless government overregulation. It is time the administration realizes the free market works better without government intervention. This kind of intrusion is unacceptable and will cause severe harm to two airlines and tens of thousands of their employees.” On August 13th, the Department of Justice filed a lawsuit to block the merger between American Airlines and US Airways. The lawsuit alleges that the merger would violate anti-trust laws. “The Department of Justice’s position is wholly incorrect”, continued Burgess. “The merger does not violate anti-trust laws, and in fact, the merger will create more choices for Americans at a lower cost.” The Department of Justice has approved three mergers of major airlines in recent years: Delta Airlines and Northwest Airlines in 2008, United Airlines and Continental Airlines in 2010, and Southwest Airlines and AirTran Airways in 2011. A full copy of the letter to Attorney General Eric Holder can be found here. ###
08.21.2013	Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement in regard to the recent Justice Department decision to file suit to stop the merger of American Airlines and US Airways. share: f t Congressman Burgess’ Statement on Justice Department Interference in the American Airlines Merger Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement in regard to the recent Justice Department decision to file suit to stop the merger of American Airlines and US Airways. “As a frequent traveler, I have first-hand knowledge of the depths of frustration and anxiety that American Airlines workers have suffered during the bankruptcy. I was looking forward to the resolution of this long process and the stability that the merger would offer. Unfortunately, the Department of Justice has interfered with what should be a normal business development. This could hurt thousands of airline employees. I will do everything within my power to assist these employees during this arduous transition and stop the federal governments’ misguided interference.” ###
07.31.2013	Washington, D.C. — Today, the Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously passed H.R. 2810, The Medicare Patient Access and Quality Improvement Act of 2013. The bill, authored by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), repeals the Sustainable Growth Rate Formula (SGR) and replaces it with a system that benefits both doctors and patients. Congressman Burgess, Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health made the following statement after the passage of H.R. 2810. share: f t ‘DocFix’ Passes Unanimously in Energy and Commerce Committee Washington, D.C. — Today, the Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously passed H.R. 2810, The Medicare Patient Access and Quality Improvement Act of 2013. The bill, authored by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), repeals the Sustainable Growth Rate Formula (SGR) and replaces it with a system that benefits both doctors and patients. Congressman Burgess, Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health made the following statement after the passage of H.R. 2810. “Today’s unanimous committee passage of H.R. 2810 was a major milestone. I’m heartened by the continued progress of this bill and am optimistic about it becoming law. The SGR’s unrealistic assumptions of spending and efficiency have plagued the medical profession and our Medicare beneficiaries for too long. By repealing and replacing SGR we will preserve Medicare by ensuring continued access to physicians for our seniors.” ###
07.31.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. will host a town hall meeting for constituents on Tuesday evening, August 6th at 7 p.m. in Flower Mound at the Trietsch Memorial United Methodist Church located at 6101 Morriss Road and on Thursday evening, August 8th at 7 p.m. in Denton at the Denton Bible Church located at 2300 E. University share: f t Burgess Hosts Town Halls Flower Mound August 6th – Denton August 8th Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. will host a town hall meeting for constituents on Tuesday evening, August 6th at 7 p.m. in Flower Mound at the Trietsch Memorial United Methodist Church located at 6101 Morriss Road and on Thursday evening, August 8th at 7 p.m. in Denton at the Denton Bible Church located at 2300 E. University Drive. Map and directions are posted at burgess.house.gov Note: Persons requiring special accommodations should contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled meeting at 972-434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. For constituents unable to attend the meeting in person, the town hall is scheduled for live video webcast from the burgess.house.gov website. Please note that video will only play during the scheduled time of the event and pending no technical difficulties. Flower Mound Town Hall Meeting Tuesday, August 6, 2013 7:00 - 8:00 PM Trietsch Memorial United Methodist Church 6101 Morriss Road Flower Mound, TX Denton Town Hall Meeting Thursday, August 8, 2013 7:00 - 8:00 PM Denton Bible Church 2300 E. University Drive Denton, TX ###
07.30.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health gave the following opening statement today at the Energy and Commerce Committee Markup of H.R. 2180 the Medicare Patient Access and Quality Improvement Act of 2013. share: f t Burgess Opening Statement On Sustainable Growth Rate Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health gave the following opening statement today at the Energy and Commerce Committee Markup of H.R. 2180 the Medicare Patient Access and Quality Improvement Act of 2013. “Tomorrow we will be marking up two bills, but I will focus on HR 2810 The Medicare Patient Access and Quality Improvement Act. If the SGR goes into effect, as some have suggested – it would mean providers would face a 25% cut. This uncertainty threatens access to care for seniors and their provider’s ability to run their practices. Instead, this legislation preserves an enhanced fee for service. It repeals the SGR and provides a period of payment transition. We build in an inflation adjuster so that payments stay relative year to year. It reduces administrative burden by building off systems providers are already familiar. It encourages maximum alignment in provider reporting. Medicine is put back in the driver seat of working with CMS to develop quality measures guided by best clinical practice. We create an additional pathway to test models that enhance care and reduce costs. We also do more to encourage patient centered medical homes and ensuring that in our efforts to ensure seniors receive the best quality American medicine delivers, we do not create any legal liability actions. This is yet another important step forward in an extremely collaborative and transparent process. This process wouldn’t look nearly as promising as it does if it wasn’t for the leadership of Chairman Upton, and Pitts and Ranking Member Waxman, my co-author Ranking Member Pallone, and Mr. Dingell. I would like to note that Chairman Upton, set three ambitious health priorities for the Committee to complete by the August recess. Many said it could not be done. However, with passage of this bill today the Committee will have met your goal. Thank you for allowing me to work with you on each of these initiatives. I would also like to thank you for working with me on H.R. 1428, which ensures transplant patients have access to necessary drugs to protect their kidney transplants. I look forward to continue working to advance this commonsense policy as soon as possible. I would also like to thank the staff who worked well into the mornings for months and came in every weekend including Majority Staff, Clay Alspach (All-spock), Robert Horne, Dr. Stephen Ferrara, Katie Novaria (No-var-ia) and former majority committee staffer Dr. John O’Shea as well as the talented team led by Amy Hall with the minority. Finally, the unsung heroes of a process like this, House Legislative Counsel deserve a special word of thanks notably, Jessica Shapiro, Ed Grossman, and Jesse Cross. The progress we have made towards repealing the SGR and implementing a workable reimbursement structure is unparalleled, and we must continue forward. Let’s continue to work together and ensure our seniors receive the best quality care, while ensuring our reimbursement structure provides needed stability. I urge all Members to support the bill tomorrow and I yield back.” ###
07.22.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, gave the following opening statement on today Subcommittee Markup of Committee Print to Amend Title XVIII of the Social Security Act to Reform the Sustainable Growth Rate and Medicare Payment for Physicians’ Services, and For Other Purposes. share: f t Burgess Opening Statement On Sustainable Growth Rate Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, gave the following opening statement on today Subcommittee Markup of Committee Print to Amend Title XVIII of the Social Security Act to Reform the Sustainable Growth Rate and Medicare Payment for Physicians’ Services, and For Other Purposes. “Tomorrow, we’ll get a chance to address what we have, in a bipartisan fashion, put forth as our legislative proposal to repeal the SGR and improve Medicare for future beneficiaries. This includes creating another pathway to encourage innovation in Medicare to more quickly and adapt to changes in practice and delivery of healthcare services. However, if there is one thing that is important to focus on today, it is the process by which all of this happened. This is the most transparent Medicare reform process under taken by the Committee, possibly ever, but certainly in my tenure. We solicited feedback from stakeholders at every step. Hearing after hearing, including a legislative hearing in June. We’ve worked in consultation with our colleagues on Ways and Means. We released two white papers and 3 legislative drafts. Each time we received feedback, compiled helpful and realistic suggestions and incorporated them into the final product. No one can say they didn’t know what we were doing. And during all of this we kept talking. We talked almost every day for months. We didn’t let pay-fors lead the discussion. We knew that was the pathway to failure. We did focus on policy and indeed did a deep dive on policy. And because of that work let’s look at what we have accomplished so far: We repeal the SGR and provide a period of payment transition. We preserve an enhanced fee for service. We have reduced administrative burden by building off systems providers are already familiar. We encourage maximum alignment in regard to provider reporting. We put medicine in the driver seat of working with CMS to develop quality measures guided by best clinical practice. We allow individual practices to decide by which cohort of measures best align to their practice. We create an additional pathway to test models that enhance care and reduce costs. And I am very pleased that the “we” in those accomplishments is not any one political party but represents the bipartisan work of this Committee. No one got what they wanted but we are all getting what we desire, moving forward a product after far too long to deal with the SGR. There is still work to do. We have not addressed every issue that we must and I will be working just as hard between now and Full Committee as we have up to now. I will reiterate a promise I have made multiple times to both Members and interested parties: I will continue to work with you if you bring reasonable suggestions to improve this product, move it forward and keep the bipartisan momentum going. Tomorrow will be an important day for Medicare beneficiaries, medicine and this Committee and it cannot get here soon enough.” ###
07.17.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2667, Employer Mandate Delay, by a vote of 264-161 and H.R. 2668 Individual Mandate Delay by a vote of 251-174. share: f t Burgess Statement on Vote to Delay Affordable Care Act Mandates Washington, D.C. —Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2667, Employer Mandate Delay, by a vote of 264-161 and H.R. 2668 Individual Mandate Delay by a vote of 251-174. “The President created a problem that the House fixed today. Two weeks ago, the President decided that he alone, without consultation, advise, consent, or even notice to the Congress, has the sole authority to decide which parts of his health care laws he will and which he will not enforce. While I have long held that all provisions in the health care bill should be delayed – permanently – we at least came together today to support the President’s efforts to delay the employer mandates by a year. By passing H.R. 2667, the Authority for Mandate Delay Act, we provided President Obama with the statutory authority he has already usurped and codified the President’s announcement. While the President is giving a pass to employers by not requiring them to offer healthcare coverage next year, he is giving no such pass to individual citizens. The individual mandate and other elements of the ACA remain unchanged. I believe that providing relief to businesses while denying that same relief to individuals is inherently unfair. For this reason, I supported H.R. 2668, the Fairness for American Families Act, which provides individuals with the same one year delay the President has offered businesses. The President justified his postponement of the employer mandate by pointing out that the regulations surrounding the mandate will be so complicated, businesses will need at least one more year to comply. The same argument can be said for the individual mandate. On October 1, I predict navigating the exchanges will be a nightmare for our constituents, and yet this Administration has turned its back on giving them any relief from the bill.” ###
07.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has announced that on Saturday, July 20, he will host the 2013 Energy Summit & Fair at the University of North Texas’ Business Leadership Building. Local and state officials, as well as industry experts and businesses, will attend and speak at the summit and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient while saving on their energy costs. share: f t Burgess, Local Leaders, and Industry Experts to Discuss Energy “We must all do our part to become more energy efficient and strive for an energy independent America.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has announced that on Saturday, July 20, he will host the 2013 Energy Summit & Fair at the University of North Texas’ Discovery Park Campus. Local and state officials, as well as industry experts and businesses, will attend and speak at the summit and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient while saving on their energy costs. The summit will feature two panels, the first will discuss energy efficiency and conservation for your commuters, and the second will focus on ways to save energy in design and construction of buildings and homes. EPA Administrator Ron Curry will serve as the federal keynote speaker and Texas Commission on Environmental Quality Chairman Dr. Bryan Shaw will be the state keynote speaker. The summit will also feature a fair with booths providing energy-related information and resources. There will also be efficient vehicles and solar powered competition cars on display. “We must all do our part to become more energy efficient and strive for an energy independent America,” Dr. Burgess said. “I invite you to join me as I bring together experts to discuss our country’s energy agenda, including the future of energy in America, ways Texas has lead the nation in many types of renewable energies, and how recent federal policies will impact Texas.” 2013 Energy Summit & Fair Saturday, July 20, 2013 8:00 a.m. to 12 noon University of North Texas • Discovery Park 3940 N. Elm Street • Denton, TX 76207 Hosted By: Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) State Keynote Speaker: Texas Commission on Environmental Quality Chairman Bryan Shaw Federal Keynote Speaker: Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Ron Curry For constituents unable to attend the summit in person, it is scheduled for live broadcast on Dr. Burgess’ website, /EnergySummit. Constituents wanting more information regarding the 2013 Energy Summit & Fair can visit /EnergySummit, or contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at (972) 434-9700 or by e-mail: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
06.27.2013	Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) discussed the effect the Affordable Care Act will have on small business owners and employees across the country. share: f t Burgess Discusses the Effects of the Affordable Care Act on Small Businesses Washington, D.C. — Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) discussed the effect the Affordable Care Act will have on small business owners and employees across the country. “It’s becoming increasingly clear,” said Dr. Burgess, “that the Affordable Care Act is going to be a disaster for small businesses and the national economy. Last week, Gallup released a poll of small business owners showing that one in five small businesses have already laid off workers because of the president’s health care takeover. At a time when the country is just starting to find economic relief, we can’t afford the job loss the Affordable Care Act will cause across the country.” Last week, Gallup released a poll showing that 41% of small business owners have frozen hiring because of the Affordable Care Act, while another 19% have reported already laying off workers because of the changes in the law. “Yesterday’s hearing did even more to shine a light on the devastating effects this law is having on small business owners,” said Dr. Burgess. “These owners are on the front lines of our economy and are finding it made it increasingly difficult to treat their employees well, while still staying in business. The government’s job is to help business owners create jobs and prosperity, instead we are doing just the opposite.” “This is one of the reasons I’m co-sponsoring the American Jobs Protection Act. This piece of legislation would repeal the employer mandate of the Affordable Care Act that is killing jobs and lowering incomes. Going forward, I hope that the Administration will realize that we need to allow job creators to expand businesses and produce jobs. In the end, that is the only way we can get our economy back on track.” Dr. Burgess’ comments come on the heels of a Congressional Subcommittee Hearing yesterday, “Challenges Facing America’s Businesses Under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act”, that heard testimony from small business leaders on the effect the ACA is going to have on their companies. You can find more information on the hearing here. More information on the American Jobs Protection Act can be found here. ###
06.12.2013	Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) announced the hiring of his new Communications Director, Bruce Harvie. share: f t Congressman Burgess Announces New Communications Director Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) announced the hiring of his new Communications Director, Bruce Harvie. Harvie joins Burgess’ staff with a wide background in politics and communications, having served as campaign manager and communications director for eight political campaigns. He also has served as a strategic communications consultant for a number of campaigns around the country. Most recently, Harvie served as Campaign Manager and Communications Director for Martha McSally’s congressional campaign in Arizona. “We look forward to having Bruce on the team as he brings his talent and expertise to Texas’ 26th Congressional District”, said Dr. Burgess. “With over a decade of political communications experience, Bruce brings a communications expertise that will be a great addition to our office.” A New York native, Harvie is a graduate of Gettysburg College and earned a M.A. from George Washington University. ###
06.05.2013	At a recent Town Hall meeting, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) recognized those students residing in the 26th District of Texas who have accepted appointments to the United States Service Academies. share: f t Burgess Announces Service Academy Appointees “I was pleased to nominate incredible young men and women who will be the future leaders of our armed forces and America.” Washington, D.C. – At a recent Town Hall meeting, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) recognized those students residing in the 26th District of Texas who have accepted appointments to the United States Service Academies. Later this summer, these young men and women will be entering the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are rigorously evaluated on a variety of criteria including academic performance, leadership qualifications and physical preparedness. Appointments to an academy must be preceded by a nomination from a Member of Congress, Academy Superintendent, the Vice President or a military connected nomination. Dr. Burgess presented appointees with a Special Certificate of Congressional Recognition and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their appointment. "I was pleased to nominate incredible young men and women who will be the future leaders of our armed forces and America,” stated Dr. Burgess. “I am even more delighted and grateful that these future leaders have accepted this challenge to serve their country." Those students from the 26th Congressional District who will be attending the service academies are: U.S. Military Academy: Kyle Barnes of Copper Canyon attends Marcus High School. Clint Carlisle of Trophy Club attended Northwest High School in Justin. Dane Fusselman of Roanoke attends Byron Nelson High. Andrew McNair of Argyle was home-schooled and attended Marion Military Institute. Alexandra Walsh attends Frisco High School. U.S. Naval Academy: Kyle Condry of Lewisville attended Marcus High School in Flower Mound and the Naval Academy Preparatory School. John Ferguson attended Guyer High School in Denton and the Naval Academy Preparatory School. Anthony Gallozzi of Lewisville currently serves in the U.S. Navy. Jessilyn Laney of Roanoke attended Byron Nelson High School in Trophy Club and attends Texas A&M University. Jett Meenach attends Flower Mound High School. Sumner Sherrod of Keller attends Westlake Academy. Danielle Turner of Krugerville attends Aubrey High School. Stephen Ward of Flower Mound attended Marcus High School and attends Rice University. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy: Blythe Fentress of Denton attends Guyer High School. Christopher Svatik of Copper Canyon attends Liberty Christian School in Argyle. Cole West attends Mansfield High School. U.S. Air Force Academy: Stevan Bacchus-Grant of Fort Worth attended Westlake Academy and the Air Force Academy Preparatory School. Derek Deiter attends Frisco High School. Reagan Fentress of Denton attends Guyer High School. Ryan Gor attended Keller High School and the Air Force Academy Preparatory School. Noelle Heiser of Frisco attends Lone Star High School. Megan Keohane of Hurst attends L.D. Bell High School. Ryan Ward of Frisco attended Wakeland High School and the Air Force Academy Preparatory School. Additional information regarding the academy nomination process may be obtained on Congressman Burgess’ website at http://burgess.house.gov or by contacting Robin Vaughan, Deputy District Director, in the Lewisville district office at 972-434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. Also, for individual photos of the appointees present, please contact Robin Vaughan. ***To download a photo of Dr. Burgess with the service academy appointees click here or here. Photo 1: (pictured left to right) Front Row: Blythe Fentress, Noelle Heiser, Reagan Fentress, Congressman Burgess; Middle Row: Dane Fusselman, Andrew McNair, Stephen Ward, Derek Deiter; Back Row: Christopher Svatik, Stevan Bacchus-Grant, Jett Meenach. Photo 2: (pictured left to right) Front Row: Blythe Fentress, Noelle Heiser, Reagan Fentress, Congressman Burgess, Alexandra Walsh; Middle Row: Dane Fusselman, Andrew McNair, Stephen Ward, Derek Deiter; Back Row: Christopher Svatik, Stevan Bacchus-Grant, Jett Meenach. ###
05.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – As Memorial Day approaches, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. share: f t Burgess Requests Nominations for 2013 Congressional Veteran Commendation Washington, D.C. – As Memorial Day approaches, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. “Our nation’s veterans have proudly and honorably served our country and preserved our freedom, and it is because of their service that we enjoy all the liberties we are afforded,” said Congressman Burgess. “These brave men and women deserve our thanks and praise, and I am proud to recognize the veterans in Texas’ 26th Congressional District and honor their service through the 2013 Congressional Veteran Commendation.” To nominate a veteran for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation, please fill out the nomination form, which can be found on Congressman Burgess’ website at http://burgess.house.gov. The deadline for submitting nominations is September 9, 2013. The completed nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, should be submitted to Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville office. To be eligible for nomination, veterans must be currently residing in the 26th District of Texas, have served the nation honorably during their military career, and subsequently demonstrated dedication to their community. Those individuals selected to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation will be recognized and honored at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association on November 12, 2013. An in-depth interview will be conducted with commendees and that interview will be forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection. For more information regarding the project, visit the Library of Congress’ website. To obtain additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the 26th District of Texas, please contact Congressman Burgess’ Deputy District Director, Robin Vaughan, at (972) 434-9700 or visit Congressman Burgess’ website. ###
05.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In recognition of Mother’s Day this Sunday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26) and Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY-16) introduced the Gestational Diabetes (GEDI) Act of 2013. According to the American Diabetes Association, up to 18 percent of all pregnancies in the U.S. are affected by gestational diabetes. The GEDI Act aims to lower the incidence of gestational diabetes and prevent women afflicted with this condition and their children from developing Type 2 diabetes. The bill passed the House in 2010, but stalled in the Senate. share: f t Burgess, Engel Introduce Gestational Diabetes Act of 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C. – In recognition of Mother’s Day this Sunday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26) and Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY-16) introduced the Gestational Diabetes (GEDI) Act of 2013. According to the American Diabetes Association, up to 18 percent of all pregnancies in the U.S. are affected by gestational diabetes. The GEDI Act aims to lower the incidence of gestational diabetes and prevent women afflicted with this condition and their children from developing Type 2 diabetes. The bill passed the House in 2010, but stalled in the Senate. The GEDI Act would: • Develop a multi-site gestational diabetes research project within the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) diabetes program to enhance surveillance and public health research on gestational diabetes. • Provide grants to reduce the incidence of gestational diabetes. • Expand basic, clinical and public health research investigating gestational diabetes and available treatments and therapies. The recommended screening period for gestational diabetes is during weeks 24-28 of a pregnancy. In 2011, the Institute of Medicine recommended all pregnant women be screened for gestational diabetes during this time period, but also at the first prenatal visit for women who are deemed at risk. During the 24th to 28th weeks of gestation is when most gestational diabetes cases are diagnosed, and the majority of cases go away postnatal. However, if untreated, it could increase the risk of mother and child developing Type 2 diabetes among other potential complications. “While there may not be uniform agreement on all of the IOM’s findings, gestational diabetes is a critical public health issue that I have been talking about for years. I am glad that the IOM has recognized the importance of this condition and recommends we do more to ensure women receive this care,” said Dr. Burgess who is the Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Co-Chair of the Congressional Health Caucus. “During my 25-year medical practice as an obstetrician, I saw far too many expectant mothers and newborn babies affected by gestational diabetes. This is a preventable disease, and patients will benefit from additional knowledge. The statistics speak for themselves – mothers diagnosed with gestational diabetes are more likely to develop Type 2 diabetes, and their children are at an increased risk not only for diabetes but other pre-natal complications as well. As I have said before and the IOM agrees, we must improve detection to improve more effective preventative measures that will reduce clinical costs for the patients as well as the states.” “Each year, approximately 135,000 American women are diagnosed with gestational diabetes. It can occur in women who have never had diabetes. We need to be more proactive in detecting, treating and reducing the incidence of gestational diabetes and we need more research into the causes of this harmful disease, which is why I am proud to re-introduce this legislation with Rep. Burgess,” said Rep. Engel, a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health, and primary author of the legislation. The Congressmen both believe that the ongoing fight against diabetes is a bipartisan battle and one that needs constant attention. By continuing to develop ways to identify, treat and prevent, the eventual goal of finding a cure becomes obtainable. ###
05.10.2013	Washington, D.C.-- Representatives Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and Tim Griffin (AR-02) today announced that the Congressional Motorcycle Caucus (CMC) has been officially registered for the 113th Congress: share: f t Burgess, Griffin Form Motorcycle Caucus for 113th Congress Fourth consecutive Congress that the Motorcycle Caucus has been registered Washington, D.C.-- Representatives Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and Tim Griffin (AR-02) today announced that the Congressional Motorcycle Caucus (CMC) has been officially registered for the 113th Congress: “We welcome the registration of the Motorcycle Caucus for the 113th Congress,” Burgess said. "Having previously served as the Caucus Chair, I welcome Congressman Tim Griffin (A-AR) as Co-Chair. We, along with other Congressional Members, will once again provide a platform and a voice here in Washington for motorcycle enthusiasts and our safety.” “I look forward to growing the Motorcycle Caucus as the voice in Congress for America’s more than 25 million motorcyclists,” Griffin said. “As a rider, I recognize that there are many important issues affecting us, such as unreasonable limits on trail riding areas, the need for additional safety awareness, and ethanol mandates that harm motorcycle engines.” Caucus Member and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Vice Chairman, John Duncan said, “Motorcycling is important to my District and to me personally. I look forward to continuing to work with the Co-Chairs and other members to highlight the need for motorcycle safety and to promote the use of motorcycles and scooters as fun, fuel efficient transportation options for many Americans.” The CMC is comprised of Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle who are committed to advancing motorcycling and improving the safety of motorcyclists. At the start of each Congress, all caucuses must be reestablished and recognized formally by the U.S. House of Representatives. This is the fourth consecutive Congressional session that the CMC has been organized. ###
04.30.2013	Lewisville, TX— Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has announced the winner of the 11th annual 26th Congressional District art competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” hosted by the Greater Denton Arts Council at the Center for the Visual Arts. Emily Cox, a sophomore at Lake Dallas High School and student of Vicky Bailey, won the Grand Prize with her chalk and charcoal self-portrait entitled “Studious”. share: f t Burgess Announces Winners of “An Artistic Discovery” Art Competition Lewisville, TX— Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has announced the winner of the 11th annual 26th Congressional District art competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” hosted by the Greater Denton Arts Council at the Center for the Visual Arts. Emily Cox, a sophomore at Lake Dallas High School and student of Vicky Bailey, won the Grand Prize with her chalk and charcoal self-portrait entitled “Studious”. “Emily’s artwork will now be displayed in the United States Capitol complex for the coming year,” said Burgess. “I am proud to highlight the artistic achievements of the 26th Congressional District through the work of Emily, and know her talent will be admired by our area as well as the rest of the country. She is a gifted young woman with significant of artistic ability.” Emily and one guest will be invited to Washington, D.C. on June 26 to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony opening the national 2013 “An Artistic Discovery” exhibition. The ceremony will honor the winning artists from congressional districts all over the country. Also announced were the “Texas Choice”, second, and first place winners: Katherine Choi and Ha Eun Chang, students of Debbie Gallatin at Flower Mound High School, won “Texas Choice” and second place, respectively. First place winner, Sarah Owens, a student of Liz Bonham at Keller High School, will have her artwork displayed in Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville District Office for the upcoming year. “Congratulations are in order for Katherine, Ha Eun, and Sarah for their creative achievements,” said Burgess. “I would like to thank every student and art teacher who submitted works to this year's Congressional Art Competition. The response was overwhelming and the talent of our high school students is indeed impressive.” Since the competition was first launched in 1982, nearly 5,000 local contests have been conducted that have involved more than 650,000 high school students. ###
04.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), U.S. Congressman Pete Sessions (R-TX), Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Congresswoman Allyson Schwartz (D-PA), Congressman Ed Whitfield (R-KY) and Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI), led a bipartisan group of more than 100 of their House colleagues in sending a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) asking for information regarding its implementation of the two percent sequester cut to Medicare payments to providers. The lawmakers expressed particular concern for its impact on Medicare Part B drugs – specifically chemotherapy and other specialty infusible drugs share: f t Burgess, Sessions, Green, Schwartz, Whitfield and Kind Lead Bipartisan Charge to Get Answers from CMS on How to Protect Cancer Patients’ Access to Health Care Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), U.S. Congressman Pete Sessions (R-TX), Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Congresswoman Allyson Schwartz (D-PA), Congressman Ed Whitfield (R-KY) and Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI), led a bipartisan group of more than 100 of their House colleagues in sending a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) asking for information regarding its implementation of the two percent sequester cut to Medicare payments to providers. The lawmakers expressed particular concern for its impact on Medicare Part B drugs – specifically chemotherapy and other specialty infusible drugs. The letter urged CMS to clarify to Congress both its statutory authority to reduce Medicare Part B drug reimbursement and its understanding of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance directing federal agencies to use any available flexibility when implementing the sequestration spending cuts to reduce operational risks and minimize its impact on the American people. Moreover, the bipartisan letter challenged CMS to use what flexibility it has available to direct the cuts away from patients. The pricing for cancer drugs covered under Medicare Part B is a formula – Average Sales Price (ASP) plus six percent – intended to reimburse cancer clinics and other providers for their drug acquisition costs at average market rates. This reimbursement formula is comprised of both the fixed cost of the drug – ASP – and an additional physician services payment – six percent – that covers costs for inventory, facilities, storage, handling and waste disposal associated with these drugs. “The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services need to explain the legal authority it used in applying sequestration to Medicare Part B drug reimbursement particularly in the oncology space since the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 determines that reimbursement in statute,” said Burgess. “I am concerned as to why CMS has decided to apply sequestration to the entire reimbursement amount and not just to the physicians services, and if they had to apply the cut at all in this space. I am glad that in an overwhelming bipartisan fashion we are questioning a seemingly basic misunderstanding of math and why CMS did not take the impact to patients and health care providers into account in exercising available flexibility. These concerns need to be addressed by CMS as soon as possible.” “Since sequestration cuts took effect, news reports of cancer clinics turning away thousands of Medicare patients have circulated across our nation,” said Sessions. “As a Member of Congress, I believe it is my responsibility to seek answers from agencies and departments here in Washington that make decisions and take actions that could impact my constituents. I remain committed to ensuring that North Texans – and all Americans – have access to their health care professionals and the treatments they need.” “It’s critical that access to quality care is not diminished because of sequestration,” said Green. “This letter is important so patients, providers, and Congress can get clarity on how CMS plans to move forward. I am concerned that if sequestration cuts are applied to the entire drug payment, many beneficiaries will lose access to their current providers. I am pleased to be joined by such a large bipartisan coalition raising questions about these cuts and I look forward to working with my colleagues and CMS to mitigate the effects of the cuts on beneficiaries and providers.” “Implementing mandatory cuts to Medicare funding in this way will have a devastating effect on millions of cancer patients across America,” said Schwartz. “We must do everything in our power to ensure that cancer patients in Pennsylvania and nationwide continue to have access to the quality, affordable treatment they need in their own community.” “While there is certainly a need to curtail excessive government spending, we should not be disproportionally targeting those battling cancer,” said Whitfield. “The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services need to use any flexibility available when applying sequestration to Part B drugs such as those used to treat cancer patients.” “We’re calling on CMS to do whatever they can to ease the burden of the sequester on people bravely fighting cancer,” said Kind. “We need to take action now, before more patients lose access to life-saving cancer drugs.” The letter, which was signed by 124 Members, was submitted to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) on Tuesday, April 23, 2013. Click here to view the letter. ###
04.18.2013	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) has reintroduced H.R. 1619, the Making Investments Now for Dementia (MIND) Act, with the support of Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA) and Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ), the co-chairs on the Congressional Taskforce on Alzheimer’s. This legislation, through the investment in bonds, would allow all proceeds to be directed to the Director of the National Institutes of Health solely for Alzheimer’s research. Funding for Alzheimer’s research is imperative, as it is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States. share: f t Burgess Reintroduces MIND Act for Alzheimer’s Research Bonds “Funding for Alzheimer’s is crucial, as it slowly takes away cognitive thinking, memories, and coordination.” Washington, D.C.– Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) has reintroduced H.R. 1619, the Making Investments Now for Dementia (MIND) Act, with the support of Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA) and Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ), the co-chairs on the Congressional Taskforce on Alzheimer’s. This legislation, through the investment in bonds, would allow all proceeds to be directed to the Director of the National Institutes of Health solely for Alzheimer’s research. Funding for Alzheimer’s research is imperative, as it is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States. “Alzheimer’s immense emotional, physical, and financial toll on patients and families shows that the United States must do more to cure the disease,” said Dr. Burgess. “Funding for Alzheimer’s is crucial, as it slowly takes away cognitive thinking, memories, and coordination. Despite having recognized potential genetic links, researchers and doctors have been unable to find the cause.” There are currently over 5 million Americans living with Alzheimer’s disease, costing the United States $172 billion annually. Alzheimer’s is projected to afflict ten million baby boomers, and as more Americans are diagnosed, costs will only rise. Currently, for every dollar that is spent on care, less than a penny is invested in finding a cure. The MIND Act will provide an additional avenue for research funding by establishing issuances of United States Alzheimer’s Bonds. The MIND Act is supported by several individuals and groups determined to find a cure for Alzheimer’s, including: former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, Alzheimer’s Association, American Academy of Neurology, and Alzheimer’s Foundation of America. “The MIND Act gives every citizen the opportunity to help cure a disease which devastates families and poses a multi-trillion dollar challenge to our nation’s future,” Speaker Gingrich said. “As the most costly disease in America and with this already staggering fiscal burden set to increase rapidly over the coming years, we must do all we can immediately to accelerate Alzheimer's research. By establishing the issuance of United States Alzheimer’s Bonds, we can create an additional source of funding specifically for Alzheimer research at the National Institutes of Health. With more than two-thirds of Alzheimer's cost paid by Medicare and Medicaid, an advance in Alzheimer research has the potential to save not only millions of lives, but also billions of dollars each year for the nation’s public health programs,” Robert Egge, Vice President of Public Policy and Advocacy for the Alzheimer’s Association, said of the legislation. “Neurologists are on the front lines in providing care for the more than five million Americans living with the devastating effects of Alzheimer’s disease and providing counsel to their families and caregivers,” said Timothy A. Pedley, MD, FAAN, president of the American Academy of Neurology. “It is essential that Congress think in innovative ways, as suggested in the MIND Act, to encourage research into the prevention, treatment and cures of neurologic disorders like Alzheimer’s disease.” “The need for Alzheimer’s disease research remains paramount. The incidence of this devastating brain disorder in our nation will triple by 2050 and costs associated with care will skyrocket accordingly. In these times of fiscal restraint, it’s necessary to be creative in finding funding sources to meet this escalating need. Issuing bonds has always been a traditional way of raising money for a common good. Americans who want to do good for the current and future generations will stand up and put their money in an investment that will pay big dividends for us as a nation,” said Eric Sokol, vice president of public policy at the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America. ###
04.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – The weather in North Texas is unpredictable and can change in an instant. North Texans can never be too prepared for the natural disasters that may impact the region. In an effort to help residents and businesses be better prepared for severe weather and natural disasters, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), is hosting the fifth annual Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair on Saturday, April 27 in Trophy Club. share: f t Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair Will Help North Texans Prepare For Severe Weather and Natural Disasters “Just last year we saw how weather can impact us locally, and I want to make sure North Texans are prepared with the tools and knowledge for an emergency.” Washington, D.C. – The weather in North Texas is unpredictable and can change in an instant. North Texans can never be too prepared for the natural disasters that may impact the region. In an effort to help residents and businesses be better prepared for severe weather and natural disasters, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), is hosting the fifth annual Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair on Saturday, April 27 in Trophy Club. The event will feature two panels of experts from local, state, and federal organizations, and will provide information on weather and disaster preparedness. In addition, there will be a fair with demonstrations and booths where weather and disaster specific organizations will present and distribute practical emergency information. The event will open at 8 a.m. with access to the fair, and presentations will begin at 8:30 a.m., and Larry Mowry, Chief Meteorologist for CBS 11, will deliver the keynote address. “There is a wealth of information available to families and businesses in North Texans on how they can prepare and plan for severe weather and natural disasters,” said Dr. Burgess. “Just last year we saw how weather can impact us locally, and I want to make sure North Texans are prepared with the tools and knowledge for an emergency.” Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair Saturday, April 27, 2013 8 a.m. – 12 noon Byron Nelson High School 2775 Bobcat Boulevard Trophy Club, TX 76262 Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Larry Mowry, Chief Meteorologist for CBS 11 Weather and preparedness experts from local, state and federal organizations Constituents wanting more information regarding the Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair can visit /EmergencyPreparedness, or contact Robin Vaughan, Deputy District Director, at (972) 434-9700 or by e-mail: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
04.11.2013	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), has reintroduced HR 1469, the Leave Ethanol Volumes at Existing Levels (LEVEL) Act that will halt the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) actions in moving forward with a waiver for an increase in ethanol in fuel. Currently, gasoline contains a 10 percent blend wall of ethanol, known as E-10. share: f t Burgess Wants Pause On The EPA’s Ethanol Waiver “The security of the public’s well-being should be paramount in this case. This is serious business.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), has reintroduced HR 1469, the Leave Ethanol Volumes at Existing Levels (LEVEL) Act that will halt the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) actions in moving forward with a waiver for an increase in ethanol in fuel. Currently, gasoline contains a 10 percent blend wall of ethanol, known as E-10. In October, 2010, the EPA granted a waiver for the allowable amount of ethanol in gasoline to increase to 15 percent, or E-15. The EPA has not released any of its own studies on the matter, and relied entirely on outside studies. “I questioned Assistant Administrator Gina McCarthy regarding the EPA’s decision to move forward with a waiver for E-15, and was wholly dissatisfied with her responses as to the research EPA has done itself on the safety of increasing to this level of ethanol,” said Dr. Burgess. “She deferred entirely to outside groups and to the Department of Energy’s research. There are serious questions we still need answered. Does EPA not employ its own scientists and experts? Is EPA’s position that it is incapable of doing its own research? We’ve already seen that EPA was inept at performing its own ‘climate science’ research.” The EPA originally approved this wavier only for engines in car model years 2007 or newer. However, just a few short months later, the EPA has expanded its approval, now allowing E15 to be used in car model years 2001 and newer. The LEVEL Act, will allow for a pause before EPA hastily approves any further ethanol in fuel and will allow for more studies to be conducted, and more assurances to be made that an increase in the blend wall for ethanol will be safe. “The security of the public’s well-being should be paramount in this case,” said Dr. Burgess. “This is serious business. Car engines, lawn mowers, generators – any engine that uses gasoline, could be potentially at risk for catching fire or having mechanical failure. Moreover, businesses tasked with selling this new gasoline with increased ethanol could face potential lawsuits from consumers who fail to follow posted signs warning them that E-15 should only be used in newer engines.” ###
03.29.2013	Washington, D.C. – The North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum will be held Saturday, April 20, 2013. This informational forum will provide interested students, grades eight through twelve, an opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission, and the selection process. share: f t North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum Washington, D.C. – The North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum will be held Saturday, April 20, 2013. This informational forum will provide interested students, grades eight through twelve, an opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission, and the selection process. North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum Saturday, April 20, 2013 8:00 AM - 12:00 Noon Registration opens at 7:30 AM Coppell High School 185 W. Parkway Blvd. Coppell, TX 75019 Jointly Sponsored By: Senator John Cornyn, Senator Ted Cruz, Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-3), Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5), Congressman Joe Barton (TX-6), Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Congressman Kenny Marchant (TX24), Congressman Roger Williams (TX-25), Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32), and Congressman Marc Veasey (TX-33) Representatives from congressional offices and all five academies (U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy), as well as current academy cadets and midshipmen are expected to be on hand. North Texas students, parents and educators will be able to hear from and meet with these representatives on a one-to-one basis to become informed about the excellent possibilities associated with attending these premier educational institutions and the sorts of careers they generate. Additional presenters will be representatives from Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine Corps ROTC. The Forum, which is free and open to the public, will be held from 8:00 AM – 12:00 NOON; registration opens at 7:30 AM. For more information, please contact Robin Vaughan, Deputy District Director, Office of Congressman Michael C. Burgess; email: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov or phone: 972-434-9700. ###
03.26.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and Gene Green (TX-29) have introduced H.R. 1326, the Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act of 2013. This bipartisan legislation aims to make health care more affordable by promoting greater transparency about the costs of health care services for patients. “Patients could review their options with up-front information about the costs of a medical procedure and other expenses in health care services,” said Dr. Burgess who is the Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Co-Chair of the Congressional Health Caucus. “A patient should be able to know what they are buying and how much they will pay out-of-pocket. Arming patients with cost information is an important step in improving our country’s health care system with the focus on the patient. share: f t Burgess, Green Legislation Provides Patients Transparent Cost Information WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and Gene Green (TX-29) have introduced H.R. 1326, the Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act of 2013. This bipartisan legislation aims to make health care more affordable by promoting greater transparency about the costs of health care services for patients. “Patients could review their options with up-front information about the costs of a medical procedure and other expenses in health care services,” said Dr. Burgess who is the Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Co-Chair of the Congressional Health Caucus. “A patient should be able to know what they are buying and how much they will pay out-of-pocket. Arming patients with cost information is an important step in improving our country’s health care system with the focus on the patient.” The Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act directs the states to establish and maintain laws requiring disclosure of information on hospital charges. Additionally, the bill requires hospitals and health plans to make such information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. Representatives Burgess and Green requested a General Accountability Office report, which found that cost information is helpful to patients, who often have difficulty accessing reliable and consistent price information. Health care costs are increasing at an alarming rate. In 2011, total national health expenditures rose over 3.9 percent – just over double the rate of inflation. Total spending was $2.7 trillion in 2011, or $8,680 per person. Total health care spending represented 17.9 percent of the Gross Domestic Product. U.S. health care spending is expected to increase at similar levels for the next decade reaching $4.5 trillion in 2020, or close to 20 percent of GDP. “Our current health care system needs to be reformed. Unfortunately, with all of the bureaucracy and paperwork, few people including patients and physicians know where money is going. This makes it hard to identify the base problem and begin to help curb increasing health care costs,” said Rep. Green. “This legislation will be a first step in a long-term solution to clear up the confusion, and will let us move towards affordable, quality health care for all Americans.” The American Hospital Association endorses the Burgess-Green legislation, noting evidence of the ongoing success of states and state hospital associations to collect and disseminate hospital pricing information. ###
03.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R–Texas) and Ron Kind (D–Wisconsin) have introduced HR 1325, the Immunosuppressive Drug Coverage for Kidney Transplant Patients Act. This legislation would allow individuals who are eligible for immunosuppressive drugs under Medicare Part B to continue to receive their vital treatment past the current 36 month cutoff. Without these drugs, transplant recipients are at risk to lose their transplanted kidneys – which should never happen. share: f t Burgess, Kind Introduce Legislation to Protect Kidney Transplant Recipients Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R–Texas) and Ron Kind (D–Wisconsin) have introduced HR 1325, the Immunosuppressive Drug Coverage for Kidney Transplant Patients Act. This legislation would allow individuals who are eligible for immunosuppressive drugs under Medicare Part B to continue to receive their vital treatment past the current 36 month cutoff. Without these drugs, transplant recipients are at risk to lose their transplanted kidneys – which should never happen. “It is incredibly cruel that the gravest threat to patients who have received a transplant is the federal government mandating that they can no longer receive treatment,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. who is the Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Co-Chair of the Congressional Health Caucus. “Renal transplantation offers end stage renal disease patients an alternative to a lifetime of dialysis. We need to ensure that patients receive the care they need and are not subject to the federal policy that denies coverage for anti-rejection drugs after 36 months. The result of not changing this policy is a costlier return to patients and the Medicare system to dialysis.” Since 1972, Medicare has covered patients with irreversible kidney failure, or end-stage renal disease (ESRD). While there is no Medicare time limit for a dialysis patient, kidney transplant recipients lose their Medicare coverage 36 months after they receive their transplant. Extending immunosuppressive coverage beyond the 36 month limit would decrease the risk of organ failure due to patients neglecting to take the immunosuppressants following loss of immunosuppressive coverage. Furthermore, transplant recipients have a higher quality of life, and are more likely to return to employment than dialysis patients. “This bill improves the quality of life for kidney transplant patients and helps lower their health care costs, by decreasing the need for further dialysis and reducing the chances of organ rejection,” said Rep. Kind. “Eliminating the 36-month cutoff on medication for kidney recipients is critical, commonsense policy that improves patient care.” “The legislation introduced by Congressmen Burgess (R-TX) and Kind (D-WI) corrects an existing Medicare policy inequity that currently wastes donor organs, lives, and taxpayer dollars. The “Transplant Patient Immunosuppressive Drug Coverage for Kidney Patients Act of 2013” is a bipartisan, bicameral bill which seeks only to provide essential drugs necessary for transplant recipients to keep their donor kidney. It is unfair to living donors, donor families, and the federal government not to do everything possible to maintain the transplanted kidney and gift-of-life that they have provided. The AST strongly supports and applauds Congressmen Burgess and Kind for their steadfast support in working to get this critical patient care legislation enacted into law,” said Dr. Roslyn Mannon, MD, President, AST. “Congress previously eliminated the time limitation for immunosuppressive coverage for aged and disabled Medicare beneficiaries, but a gap in coverage remains for kidney transplant recipients who are not Medicare aged or disabled,” said Bruce Skyer, CEO of the National Kidney Foundation. “Many of these kidney recipients face uncertainty in obtaining the drugs necessary to preserve their transplant, and today’s action by Rep. Burgess and Rep. Kind will alleviate a financial burden and barrier to organ transplantation for many kidney patients. In the long run, this legislation will save the federal government money as there will be no need to pay the high cost of dialysis for those who lose their transplants due to inability to afford medications.” U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D–Illinois) and Thad Cochran (R–Mississippi) have introduced companion legislation in their respective chambers. ###
03.14.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Christopher P. Gibson (R-New York) have introduced HR 1083, the No Armed Drones Act (NADA). The legislation would amend the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 to prohibit the Secretary of Transportation from authorizing any person to operate an unmanned drone domestically as a weapon. share: f t Burgess, Gibson Introduce No Armed Drones Legislation Ensuring that no armed drone is used domestically against a person or property. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Christopher P. Gibson (R-New York) have introduced HR 1083, the No Armed Drones Act (NADA). The legislation would amend the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 to prohibit the Secretary of Transportation from authorizing any person to operate an unmanned drone domestically as a weapon. “Americans are concerned about privacy, and drones present the possibility for abuse by law enforcement,” said Dr. Burgess. “We need to guarantee that the proper safety measures are taken to ensure that Americans and their property are safely guarded. By amending the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012, we will be prohibiting the Secretary of Transportation from being able to authorize unmanned drones to be used domestically as a weapon.” “This legislation makes clear that no individual or governmental authority can use an armed drone in national, domestic airspace against another citizen or property. I am a firm believer that we do not have to invade Americans’ constitutionally guaranteed rights in order to stay safe. This bill affirms these rights, and I appreciate the opportunity to partner with Dr. Burgess on this important effort,” said Congressman Chris Gibson. On March 6, Senator Rand Paul (R-Kentucky) stood in the Senate Chambers for 13 hours filibustering John Brennan’s nomination as head of the Central Intelligence Agency until he was assured by the Obama administration that no American could be killed by a drone without first being indicted of a crime. Senator Paul did receive a two sentence response from Attorney General Eric Holder on March 7; however the response does not define “combat” when answering if President Obama would have the authority to “use a weaponized drone to kill an American not engaged in combat on American soil.” The purpose of NADA is to codify existing Federal Aviation Administration code, Section 91.15, which prohibits the dropping of objects from aircraft on American soil unless precautions are taken to ensure the safety of people and property on the ground. ###
03.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Every year, Americans spend over 6 billion hours preparing their tax forms. Additionally, the Internal Revenue Service has over 2,000 forms and instructions listed on their website. With Tax Day just a month away, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has reintroduced HR 1040, the Flat Tax Act, which would fundamentally reform the broken tax system of the United States. This legislation would provide taxpayers the option of having a flat rate of tax applied to their annual income. share: f t Burgess Introduces Flat Tax Legislation “This system will restore fairness to the tax code by treating everyone equally and incorporating the all-American principle of freedom.” Washington, D.C. – Every year, Americans spend over 6 billion hours preparing their tax forms. Additionally, the Internal Revenue Service has over 2,000 forms and instructions listed on their website. With Tax Day just a month away, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has reintroduced HR 1040, the Flat Tax Act, which would fundamentally reform the broken tax system of the United States. This legislation would provide taxpayers the option of having a flat rate of tax applied to their annual income. “This system will restore fairness to the tax code by treating everyone equally and incorporating the all-American principle of freedom. Unlike previous versions of the flat tax, this act will allow individuals and business to choose when to opt into the system,” said Dr. Burgess. “It will have no loopholes, but will allow some personal exemptions like a standard deduction.” HR 1040 will phase-in the flat tax over a three-year period, with a 19-percent rate for the first two years and a 17-percent rate in subsequent years. The program would be optional. Once electing into the flat tax system, one could not move back and forth between the current and flat tax systems. “Individuals need a tax system that provides a clear understanding of how their financial decisions will affect them. The Flat Tax Act is pro-growth and will make filing easier on everyone.” said Dr. Burgess. “It is based on common-sense economics.” The Flat Tax creates a fair and simple system that will help boost economic activity. When Ronald Reagan cut the tax code in half in 1986, the result of that reform worked. The economy grew, jobs were created, and revenues increased. Now, more than ever, this reform is needed for our country, our economy, and American citizens. ###
02.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) is pleased to announce the opening of "An Artistic Discovery," the annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Since the U.S. House of Representatives created the competition in 1982, hundreds of thousands of talented high school students have served as artistic ambassadors of their communities. share: f t Burgess Announces 2013 “An Artistic Discovery” Congressional High School Art Contest Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) is pleased to announce the opening of "An Artistic Discovery," the annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Since the U.S. House of Representatives created the competition in 1982, hundreds of thousands of talented high school students have served as artistic ambassadors of their communities. The contest is open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing and/or attending schools located in the 26th Congressional District. The Greater Denton Arts Council (GDAC) selects an art educator to judge the annual competition. Digital image submissions of artwork must be submitted by teachers by Monday, March 25 at 5pm CT. Submissions must be accompanied by a School Entry Form and Student Information Release Form for each student. Any artwork submitted that does not have the required documents will not be accepted for online judging and exhibition. Each art teacher may submit up to 5 entries with no student allowed to submit more than one entry. All works must be submitted as a group through the art teacher. For more information please visit, /2013artcompetition. The public will have the opportunity to vote for their favorite pieces in a virtual gallery on Dr. Burgess’ website; the artwork earning the most votes will be named the “Texas Choice” winner. An art juror will determine one “Best of School” winner from each participating high school. All competition finalists, their parents, teachers and school administrators will be invited to attend a reception on Monday, April 29th, at 5:30 p.m. to view their “Best of Schools” and “Texas Choice” artwork on display at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton. Also that evening, finalists will be recognized and receive a Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition. Grand Prize, First, Second, Third Place winners will be announced as well. Grand Prize in the competition is the display of the winning student's artwork for an entire year in the House corridor to the U.S. Capitol. The exhibit hallway is traveled daily by Members of Congress, their staff, and thousands of visitors who are able to view the artwork from Congressional districts throughout the country – each artwork is highlighted with the name of the work and student artist. The 26th District winner and a guest will be invited to Washington, D.C. in the summer to attend a ribbon –cutting ceremony honoring the winning artists and opening the 2013 "An Artistic Discovery" exhibition. In addition, the competition’s First Place winner will have the opportunity to have their artwork displayed in Dr. Burgess’ Lewisville district office for the upcoming year. If you have any questions regarding the Congressional High School Art Contest or a student’s eligibility to participate, please contact Robin Vaughan, Deputy District Director, in Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville office by phone at (972) 434-9700 or email, robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. To find this year’s guidelines, entry form and release form, click on the following links: Congressional Art Contest Guidelines for Students Congressional Art Contest School Entry Form Congressional Art Contest Student Release Form
02.15.2013	Dr. Burgess released the following statement after American Airlines and US Airways announced their merger agreement: "Yesterday, American Airlines and US Airways officially announced their merger agreement and will operate under the American Airlines name. share: f t Dr. Burgess released the following statement after American Airlines and US Airways announced their merger agreement: "Yesterday, American Airlines and US Airways officially announced their merger agreement and will operate under the American Airlines name. As a major employer in North Texas the merger will be good for the employees and passengers, and will offer almost 1,000 daily departures from Texas while employing over 24,000 people. As a frequent flyer I've certainly come to realize that their employees are one their greatest assets and the stability the merger will offer is welcomed." To read the official press release from American Airlines click here.
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Eliot Engel (D-New York) both recognize that more can be done to help those living with muscular dystrophy. To help ensure that the federal work impacting those with muscular dystrophy, keeps up with current science and that patients receive safe and effective therapies for all forms of muscular dystrophy they have introduced the Muscular Dystrophy Community Assistance, Research and Education Act (MD CARE Act) Amendments Act of 2013, H.R. 594. share: f t Burgess, Engel Work to Continue Improving the Lives of Patients Impacted by Muscular Dystrophy WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Eliot Engel (D-New York) both recognize that more can be done to help those living with muscular dystrophy. To help ensure that the federal work impacting those with muscular dystrophy, keeps up with current science and that patients receive safe and effective therapies for all forms of muscular dystrophy they have introduced the Muscular Dystrophy Community Assistance, Research and Education Act (MD CARE Act) Amendments Act of 2013, H.R. 594. Originally signed into law 12 years ago, there has been great success in coordinating and focusing research relating to muscular dystrophy and improving care standards aimed at improving clinical care across the muscular dystrophies. Had Congress not enacted the MD CARE Act in 2001 and its subsequent reauthorization in 2008, much of this progress likely wouldn't have occurred. “While we have seen great progress, we know there is more work to be done,” said Dr. Burgess. “Our legislation will enhance existing research efforts, and intensify existing surveillance and tracking of all the muscular dystrophies, and will ensure that valuable data informs the biomedical research agenda. All of these will help support the quality of research and care, and will help support adults living with various forms of muscular dystrophy so they can live independent, productive and rewarding lives.” “As a cosponsor of the original MD-CARE Act of 2001 and the lead sponsor of the first reauthorization effort in 2008, I have been involved in seeking improvements to research and treatments for muscular dystrophy for many years. Many of the improvements we have found in the fight against MD are directly related to the passage of the MD CARE Act 12 years ago. Since the passage of the MD CARE Act, the average lifespan of Americans living with Duchenne MD, the most common form of muscular dystrophy in children, is an estimated 10 years longer than it was before the MD CARE Act became law. It is definitely worthy to once again reauthorize the law. I am pleased to work with my colleague, Congressman Burgess, on this issue, and I look forward to working in a bipartisan manner with my colleagues to urge its passage,” said Rep. Engel. Since 2001, there have been 67 clinical trials of drugs or therapies for muscular dystrophy and there are currently 37 clinical trials underway. A number of the potential therapies now in clinical investigation can be traced to the basic research efforts stemming from this law. The MD CARE Act recognizes the challenging fiscal climate by providing no additional increase in authorized appropriations. ###
02.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – In advance of President Obama’s State of the Union address, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittees on Health and Oversight and Investigations and Co-Chair of the Congressional Health Caucus, released the following statement: “Today is “Fat Tuesday” and is known as the last hurrah before Lent and is the beginning of a long fasting period for some Christians. Many will take the opportunity to indulge in various foods and activities before the long Lenten season starts tomorrow. While the 40 days of Lent is not enough time to solve all our problems, it is a time of reflection and a time to evaluate where we can make changes and improve. share: f t Burgess Statement on State of the Union Address “I hope President Obama will leave behind these “Fat Tuesday” policies that our country has been on for the past four years, and focus on the spending problems our country is facing.” Washington, D.C. – In advance of President Obama’s State of the Union address, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittees on Health and Oversight and Investigations and Co-Chair of the Congressional Health Caucus, released the following statement: “Today is “Fat Tuesday” and is known as the last hurrah before Lent and is the beginning of a long fasting period for some Christians. Many will take the opportunity to indulge in various foods and activities before the long Lenten season starts tomorrow. While the 40 days of Lent is not enough time to solve all our problems, it is a time of reflection and a time to evaluate where we can make changes and improve. “Tonight, President Obama will make his ninth address to Congress and the American people since taking office just over four years ago. This is his opportunity to provide his plan on where we can change and improve America. We need to see a responsible savings proposal. We need to see a plan that reduces the debt. Finally, we need to see a plan that expands opportunity for all Americans without raising taxes. “In 2009, there were over 27 million small businesses in the United States, making up over half of our country’s employment and generating 65 percent of net new jobs over the past 17 years. America is the land of opportunity, and we need to ensure that our small businesses are provided the environment to flourish and to put people to work. “I hope President Obama will leave behind these “Fat Tuesday” policies that our country has been on for the past four years, and focus on the spending problems our country is facing. Ordinary Americans are making adjustments and sacrifices every day. In this season of sacrifice and denial, Washington should do the same.” ###
02.01.2013	With today’s announcement by Energy Secretary Steven Chu that he will soon be resigning from President Obama’s cabinet, it is my hope that the Department of Energy will close the door on its narrowly focused pursuit of unsustainable and costly “green” energy boondoogles and return to its core mission of supporting the production of abundant sources of fuel within our borders. For the past 4 years, Secretary Chu has led an effort to undermine the thriving oil and gas industries in order to boost new technologies that have time after time proven to be failures, and he has done it at a massive expense to the American people. Most egregiously, Secretary Chu will forever be associated with the failed loan guarantee program which funded Solyndra to a loss of $535 million, after he ignored the law by giving private investors priority over American taxpayers during Solyndra’s bankruptcy proceedings. The federal government should get out of the business of dictating the energy sources that Americans use, and I hope that any future Secretary of Energy will commit to allowing the American people to choose for themselves how they heat and light their homes and run their cars. share: f t Dr. Burgess released the following statement regarding the announcement of Secretary Chu's resignation. "With today’s announcement by Energy Secretary Steven Chu that he will soon be resigning from President Obama’s cabinet, it is my hope that the Department of Energy will close the door on its narrowly focused pursuit of unsustainable and costly “green” energy boondoogles and return to its core mission of supporting the production of abundant sources of fuel within our borders. For the past 4 years, Secretary Chu has led an effort to undermine the thriving oil and gas industries in order to boost new technologies that have time after time proven to be failures, and he has done it at a massive expense to the American people. Most egregiously, Secretary Chu will forever be associated with the failed loan guarantee program which funded Solyndra to a loss of $535 million, after he ignored the law by giving private investors priority over American taxpayers during Solyndra’s bankruptcy proceedings. The federal government should get out of the business of dictating the energy sources that Americans use, and I hope that any future Secretary of Energy will commit to allowing the American people to choose for themselves how they heat and light their homes and run their cars."
01.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), announced the members of his Service Academy Advisory Board. The twelve-member board met recently to advise him upon the selection of qualified service academy candidates. The board’s purpose is to comprehensively screen and interview high school and college applicants wishing to receive a congressional nomination; the board then makes recommendations to Dr. Burgess for final review and nominations are submitted to the individual service academies (U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY) for appointment consideration. share: f t Burgess Names Service Academy Board and Nominees Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), announced the members of his Service Academy Advisory Board. The twelve-member board met recently to advise him upon the selection of qualified service academy candidates. The board’s purpose is to comprehensively screen and interview high school and college applicants wishing to receive a congressional nomination; the board then makes recommendations to Dr. Burgess for final review and nominations are submitted to the individual service academies (U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY) for appointment consideration. “One of the privileges I have serving in the U.S. House of Representatives is the opportunity to nominate outstanding young people from the 26th District to our nation’s service academies,” Dr. Burgess said. “We have a stellar group of former military, education and community leaders serving on the Advisory Board. After a rigorous selection process, I was grateful to receive excellent recommendations from this outstanding board.” Retired Air Force Lt. General Charles R. Hamm serves as Chairman of the Board. Dr. Burgess noted, “General Hamm’s highly regarded service as the former Superintendent of the U.S. Air Force Academy enables him to capably lead the Board.” “I know how serious Congressman Burgess takes his responsibility to nominate highly qualified young people to the academies and working with this distinguished board, I believe we were able to recommend the right people to him for consideration,” said General Hamm. The members of the 26th Congressional District Service Academy Advisory Board are as follows: LtGen Charles R. Hamm, USAF (Ret.), Chairman. Of Argyle: U.S Military Academy graduate, former Superintendent of U.S. Air Force Academy Mrs. Elaine Emery of Lewisville: Community Volunteer LtCol Paul Gosnell, USMCR (Ret.) of Frisco: U.S. Naval Academy graduate, Pilot LCDR William L. Hagan II, USN, of Flower Mound (active duty - stationed in Hawaii): U.S. Merchant Marine Academy graduate, Pacific Region Energy Manager, Diving & Salvage Officer COL Marc Hildenbrand, U.S. Army (Ret.) of Denton: U.S. Military Academy graduate, Business Owner & Consultant LCDR Dave Loomis, USNR, (Ret.) of Denton: U.S. Merchant Marine Academy graduate, Consultant Mr. Jerry Bryan McKinney, Jr. of Flower Mound: U.S. Naval Academy graduate, Transportation Security Administration Manager Mr. Kevin R. Purnell of Lantana: U.S. Air Force Academy graduate, Management Consultant Dr. Peter Lane, Col., USAF (Ret.) of Denton: U.S. Air Force Academy graduate, Professor Mr. Tom Russell of Flower Mound: U.S Military Academy graduate, Aerospace Consultant Mr. Richard Walker of North Richland Hills: Aerospace Financial Manager Maj Jae Yu, USAFR (Ret.) of Flower Mound: U.S. Air Force Academy graduate, Pilot ***To download a photo of Dr. Burgess with the 26th Congressional District Service Academy Advisory Board click here.*** PHOTO: (L-R standing) Kevin Purnell, Paul Gosnell, Marc Hildenbrand, Rich Walker, Charlie Hamm, Pete Lane, Congressman Michael Burgess, Bryan McKinney, Jae Yu, Will Hagan. Elaine Emery. Dave Loomis, Tom Walker Dr. Burgess is also pleased to announce the twenty-nine outstanding young men and women from the 26th District of Texas who have been selected as Class of 2017 nominees to our nation’s service academies. Nominees were selected after a rigorous application process culminating in a personal interview with Dr. Burgess’ Academy Advisory Board. “I was very impressed by the high caliber of candidates that applied to my office,” said Dr. Burgess. “The selection process was very competitive, and each of these students has a strong record of academic performance and leadership in school activities, sports, JROTC, and community and volunteer service. If selected for appointment to their respective academies, I know each of these students will perform admirably, and serve honorably as officers in our country’s military services.” A congressional nomination does not guarantee admission to one of the service academies as the academies’ respective admissions boards decide who is offered appointment, and ultimately admitted. If appointed, the nominees will enter this summer. The following candidates were nominated to the service academies. Several individuals have been nominated to multiple academies; if they receive appointment offers from more than one academy, the student will have to choose one to attend. Logan Bouma attends Frisco High School and was nominated to the U.S Naval Academy. Jennie Bruggeman of Keller attends Westlake Academy and was nominated to the U.S Air Force Academy. James Callan of Flower Mound attends Culver Military Academy and was nominated to the U.S Military Academy and U.S Merchant Marine Academy. Gabrielle Carpenito of Keller attends Westlake Academy and was nominated to the U.S Military Academy. Madison Charland attends Keller High School and was nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Kyle Condry of Lewisville and attends the U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School and was nominated to the U.S Naval Academy. Derek Deiter attends Frisco High School and was nominated to the U.S Air Force Academy and the U.S Military Academy. Trevor Dutt of Flower Mound attends Texas A&M University and was nominated to the U.S Air Force Academy. Reagan Fentress of Denton attends Guyer High School and was nominated to the U.S Air Force Academy. Duke Fredrickson of Flower Mound attends Coram Deo Academy and was nominated to the U.S Air Force Academy. Dane Fusselman of Roanoke attends Byron Nelson High School and was nominated to the U.S Military Academy. Anthony Gallozzi of Lewisville currently serves in the U.S. Navy and was nominated to the U.S Naval Academy. Brendan Greenwell of Flower Mound attends Marcus High School and was nominated to the U.S Military Academy and the U.S Merchant Marine Academy. Alain Haldeman attends The Colony High School and was nominated to the U.S Merchant Marine Academy. Garrett Hamm attends Argyle High School and was nominated to the U.S Merchant Marine Academy. Reyden Harris of North Richland Hills attends Timber Creek High School and was nominated to the U.S Naval Academy. Easton Haslam of Roanoke attends Byron Nelson High School and was nominated to the U.S Naval Academy. Alec Heierman attends Keller High School and was nominated to the U.S Air Force Academy. Megan Keohane of Hurst attends L.D. Bell High School and was nominated to the U.S Air Force Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy. Jordan Mahoney attends Keller High School and was nominated to the U.S Merchant Marine Academy. Nathanael McGlothlin of Keller attends Greystone Preparatory School and was nominated to the U.S Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Andrew McNair of Argyle attends Marion Military Institute and was nominated to the U.S Military Academy. Stacia Sackett of Fort Worth attends Timber Creek High School and was nominated to the U.S Air Force Academy. Sumner Sherrod of Keller attends Westlake Academy and was nominated to the U.S Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Academy. Nathan Shurtleff attends Flower Mound High School and was nominated to the U.S Air Force Academy. Andrew Stracener of Keller attends the American School of London and was nominated to the U.S Naval Academy. Christopher Svatik of Lewisville attends Liberty Academy and was nominated to the U.S Military Academy and the U.S. Merchant Academy. Kenneth West attends Mansfield High School and was nominated to the U.S Merchant Marine Academy. Tyler Whitfield of Roanoke attends Byron Nelson High School and was nominated to the U.S Naval Academy. ###
01.29.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) released the following statement regarding the Senate’s immigration reform proposal: “While the Senate proposal includes several provisions aimed at improving the enforcement of our current immigration laws, it fails to ensure the integrity of the legal immigration process share: f t Burgess Statement on Senate Immigration Reform Proposal Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) released the following statement regarding the Senate’s immigration reform proposal: “While the Senate proposal includes several provisions aimed at improving the enforcement of our current immigration laws, it fails to ensure the integrity of the legal immigration process. We need to ensure that our borders are secure and employers are hiring those who are legal to work in America. We have programs in place, such as E-verify, that make employment verification easy and efficient. I am adamant about enforcement, especially when employers go outside the law and hire those who are not here legally. Rewarding those who enter this country illegally is not only reckless, but blocks opportunities for the 12 million American citizens who are currently unemployed and costs taxpayers more money.” # # #
01.29.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting on Thursday, January 31, 2013. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as unemployment, taxes, and the health care are expected to be discussed. share: f t Burgess To Hold Watauga Town Hall Meeting Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting on Thursday, January 31, 2013. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as unemployment, taxes, and the health care are expected to be discussed. Watauga Town Hall Meeting Thursday, January 31, 2013 7 pm to 8 pm The Harvest Church Auditorium 7200 Denton Highway Fort Worth, Texas For constituents unable to attend the meeting in person, the town hall is scheduled for live broadcast on Dr. Burgess’ website. For more information on the town hall meeting visit burgess.house.gov/TownHall. # # #
01.08.2013	Today, Dr. Burgess released his 2012 Year End Annual Report. The report showcases his 2012 legislative work and accomplishments, media communication, constituent services, and correspondence with North Texans. share: f t Burgess Releases 2012 Annual Report Washington, D.C. – Today, Dr. Burgess released his 2012 Year End Annual Report. The report showcases his 2012 legislative work and accomplishments, media communication, constituent services, and correspondence with North Texans. “It is important to show constituents the work I am doing on their behalf, and this is my report to them on the accomplishments we’ve made in 2012,” said Dr. Burgess. “My office performs a variety of services; everything from drafting legislation to helping constituents work with various federal agencies, and I want them to know that I am working hard for North Texans.” Some of Dr. Burgess’ 2012 accomplishments include: Participated in 49 hearings in the Energy and Commerce Committee Participated in 6 Joint Economic Committee hearings Participated in 15 markups in the Energy and Commerce Committee Cast 612 votes, 97.7% vote attendance record Co-sponsored 41 bills Opened 555 cases with federal agencies on behalf of constituents Received and responded to over 39,000 pieces of correspondence Traveled over 4,200 miles in North Texas Held or attended over 500 events Mentioned in 2,236 newspaper articles or blogs Interviewed 115 times by newspapers and magazines Conducted 193 radio interviews Participated in 71 television interviews “I have always done my best to represent the residents of the 26th District of Texas,” said Dr. Burgess. “I keep my constituents’ interest at the forefront, and will never forget that I am able to serve this great nation because of them. I take their trust in me very seriously and it is my responsibility to provide them with a report on what we’ve been able to do.” Click on the image below to review the 2012 Year End Annual Report. Constituents can download the 2012 Year End Annual Report and past reports on Dr. Burgess’ website: /YearEndReport. ###
11.28.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) was named Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and will continue to serve as the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on Health. Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), announced the members who will serve atop the six subcommittees in the 113th Congress. As the only Member of Congress serving as the Vice Chair of two subcommittees, Dr. Burgess will continue to vigorously push health care issues, work to cut wasteful federal spending, and perform oversight of the executive branch, including overseeing the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. share: f t Burgess Named Vice Chair of Two Energy and Commerce Subcommittees Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) was named Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and will continue to serve as the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on Health. Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), announced the members who will serve atop the six subcommittees in the 113th Congress. As the only Member of Congress serving as the Vice Chair of two subcommittees, Dr. Burgess will continue to vigorously push health care issues, work to cut wasteful federal spending, and perform oversight of the executive branch, including overseeing the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. “As a doctor and as a legislator I know the impact Washington has on doctors, hospitals, and patients, and I have been a strong advocate for health care legislation aimed at reducing health care costs, improving choices, reforming liability laws to put the needs of patients first, and ensuring there are enough doctors in the public and private sector to care for America’s patients,” said Dr. Burgess. “As Vice Chair of two Energy and Commerce Subcommittees I will continue to push these important issues, including the critical oversight of the implementation of the Affordable Care Act.” Chairman Upton named Dr. Burgess for the key slot on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, in addition to his current role as Vice Chair of the Health Subcommittee, because of this medial background and his extensive oversight experience. “The Energy and Commerce Committee will continue the critical oversight of the Affordable Care Act, and as Vice Chairman of both the Health Subcommittee and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, Dr. Burgess will be at the forefront of our aggressive efforts,” said Chairman Upton. “He has the legislative expertise, the medical background, and the oversight experience that will ensure the Obama administration is held accountable.” Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) notes that Dr. Burgess has been at the forefront of the health care debate from the beginning. “As the Vice Chair of both the Subcommittee on Health and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, Dr. Burgess will continue to lead House Republican efforts in crafting health care legislation and overseeing the implementation of the Affordable Care Act,” said Speaker Boehner. “He’s been here every step of the way in holding the Obama administration accountable, and in supporting legislative efforts that will bring real reform to our health care system. As the only House member that is a Vice Chair of two subcommittees, he will continue to play a vital role.” Dr. Burgess will serve on the Health Subcommittee with Congressman Joe Pitts (R-PA) as Chair, and on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee with Tim Murphy (R-PA), who was named the Subcommittee’s Chair. ###
11.09.2012	Burgess Honors Local Veterans “While we have singled out these veterans for recognition, I want to extend my deepest appreciation to all veterans for your service to the United States of America.” Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) recognized the five veterans who received this year’s 26th District Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC was created eight years ago to honor the distinguished living veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. Nominations were received from the community, veterans’ organizations and civic groups. This year’s commendations were presented at the tenth annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association and the City of Highland Village. The five recipients of this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation are: • Robert Baird (Lieutenant Colonel - U.S. Army) of Lantana • Victor Durrance (Sergeant - U.S. Army Air Force) of Gainesville • Andrew Fortunato (Lieutenant Colonel - U.S. Marine Corps) of Keller • Joe Gray (Colonel - U.S. Army) of North Richland Hills • Mugg Pawless (Private First Class - U.S. Army) of Gainesville “Five extraordinary individuals were selected to receive the 2012 Congressional Veteran Commendation,” said Dr. Burgess. “They served in the Armed Forces of the United States with distinction and continued their dedication to the nation by striving tirelessly on behalf of their fellow veterans and serving the people in their communities.” “While we have singled out these veterans for recognition, I want to extend my deepest appreciation to all veterans for your service to the United States of America,” Dr. Burgess remarked to the approximate 300 luncheon attendees. “On behalf of the citizens of the 26th District and of a grateful nation, we are forever in your debt.” In addition to those recognized with this year’s CVC, Dr. Burgess also recognized Sgt. Steven Davidson (U.S Army) as the 2012 Army Times Soldier of the Year. ***To download a photo of Dr. Burgess with Congressional Veteran Commendation recipients click here. Pictured are (L-R): Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., Robert Baird, Victor Durrance, Andrew Fortunato, Joe Gray, Mugg Pawless*** ###
10.31.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) announced that he has selected Kelle A. Strickland as his new Chief of Staff. Strickland succeeds Barry Brown who, after holding the position for almost ten years, pursued opportunities in the private sector. share: f t Burgess Introduces New Chief of Staff “Kelle will serve the 26th District not only working in my Washington office, but also actively with my staff and constituents back home in Texas.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) announced that he has selected Kelle A. Strickland as his new Chief of Staff. Strickland succeeds Barry Brown who, after holding the position for almost ten years, pursued opportunities in the private sector. Strickland, who has served as Counsel to the Chairman of the House Ethics Committee since 2010, will assume the new role effective November 5th. Strickland came to Capitol Hill in 2003, when she joined the office of Congressman Jo Bonner (AL-01), as Legislative Assistant. She later served as Legislative Director and Counsel, before being tapped for the Ethics Committee. “With almost ten years of service on Capitol Hill, Kelle brings expertise and experience that will be an invaluable addition to our office” said Dr. Burgess. “Kelle is held in high regard and she has a proven track record. Her enthusiasm and work ethic, coupled with her political, legislative, and leadership skills will make her a great addition to my office. Kelle will serve the 26th District not only working in my Washington office, but also actively with my staff and constituents back home in Texas.” Strickland, a native of Mobile, Alabama, is a graduate of Spring Hill College and earned her J.D. from Cumberland School of Law in 1996. She is a member of the District of Columbia Bar. ###
09.26.2012	Burgess Presses Obama Administration on Inconsistent Libya Statements “This administration has not been forthcoming. We deserve better, and the four Americans who lost their lives deserve better.” Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), sent a letter to President Obama regarding the erroneous statements made by officials of the Obama administration regarding the attack on the United States consulate in Benghazi, Libya. “Following the attack, several administration officials inaccurately stated that the assault was a result of an Internet video, when in fact it was a terrorist attack,” said Dr. Burgess. “President Obama and his administration have made no effort to clarify their miscommunication, and have failed to provide any information on what exactly transpired. The release of such incomplete information drives improper conclusions, misdirects anger, and could lead to policy changes that would undermine our diplomatic and military efforts abroad.” The assault, which happened on September 11th, was also the 11th anniversary of the 2001 terrorist attacks on America. It lasted nearly four hours, and resulted in the deaths of United States Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Foreign Service Information Management Officer Sean Smith, and diplomatic security officers and former Navy SEALs Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods. “On September 20th, Secretary Clinton, and Director Clapper of the National Intelligence briefed Members of Congress, but critical questions were not answered or were deflected,” said Dr. Burgess. “This administration has not been forthcoming. We deserve better, and the four Americans who lost their lives deserve better.” To view the letter, click here. ###
09.24.2012	Modernize CBO Scoring: The Preventative Health Savings Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and Congresswoman Donna Christensen (D-VI) have introduced The Preventative Health Savings Act of 2012, H.R. 6482. The legislation would create a more accurate budget scoring system for legislation dealing with health care spending, and would allow the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to collect data past the current ten year window. “As health care costs continue to rise, we must apply all applicable data to ensure that the CBO accurately measures the cost of preventative health care and long term cost savings,” said Dr. Burgess who serves as Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and is Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus. “Chronic diseases account for over seventy percent of all health care spending, and this legislation will help bend the cost curve and provide long-term costs savings. Allowing the CBO to analyze scientific data, and having the ability to provide projects past the ten year scoring window will provide a more accurate projection for programs with children and other populations or diseases with longer development periods. This legislation is a responsible approach and will ensure that the government calculates the savings of preventative health.” "This legislation will play an integral not only in modernizing the CBO scoring of prevention, but also in ensuring that pay-fors that likely exist in health bills that have robust preventive health provisions are more adequately captured and calculated," added Congresswoman Christensen, a physician and Chair of the CBC Health Braintrust. "Additionally, this legislation will play a key role in helping to reduce the racial and ethnic, as well as gender and geographic disparities that exist across all of the nation's most costly chronic conditions and diseases because it will play a pivotal role in ensuring that sound and forward-thinking preventive health proposals are given a more accurate score and thus chance to move in Congress." The bill will define preventative care narrowly and will require that associated treatments be credible and proven through publicly available epidemiological projection models that incorporate human clinical trials or observational studies. This approach is already taking place in the private sector and this legislation will allow, with bipartisan agreement, for the federal government to catch-up. Upon introduction, the legislation was co-sponsored by: Brett Guthrie (KY-02), Steve Womack (AR-03), Sue Myrick (NC-09), Leonard Lance (NJ-07), Marsha Blackburn (TN-7), Phil Gingrey (GA-11), Bill Cassidy (LA-06), Tim Griffin (AR-02), Kay Granger (TX-12), Barbara Lee (CA-09), Laura Richardson (CA-31), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Danny K. Davis (IL-07), Chuck Fleischmann (TN-03), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34). The legislation is supported by: Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, Aetna, American Association of Diabetes Educators, American College of Occupational Medicine, American College of Preventative Medicine, American Diabetes Association, Building Healthier America, BlueCross BlueShield Tennessee, Care Continuum Alliance, Council for Affordable Health Coverage, Dialysis Patient Citizens, The Endocrine Society, Healthcare Leadership Council, Healthways, International Health Racquet & Sportsclub Association, Johnson & Johnson, Marshfield Clinic, MemorialCare Health System, National Retail Federation, National Kidney Foundation, Novo Nordisk, Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease, Sanofi, Texas Health Resources, and Weight Watchers. To download the PDF of the legislation click here. ###
09.19.2012	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will bring together local, state, and federal representatives, area stakeholders, and the public at-large for the 8th Annual East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit on Friday, September 28, 2012. The annual event highlights development in the East and Southeast quadrant of Fort Worth, showcasing current and potential projects and featuring a perspective of the broad macro-environment as well as specific project accomplishments, and anticipated development. share: f t 8th Annual Economic Development Summit Aims To Boost Growth in East and Southeast Fort Worth “This area of the district faces many challenges with regards to spurring economic growth and sustaining that growth, and the communities’ needs are substantial.” Washington, D.C. - Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will bring together local, state, and federal representatives, area stakeholders, and the public at-large for the 8th Annual East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit on Friday, September 28, 2012. The annual event highlights development in the East and Southeast quadrant of Fort Worth, showcasing current and potential projects and featuring a perspective of the broad macro-environment as well as specific project accomplishments, and anticipated development. “This area of the district faces many challenges with regards to spurring economic growth and sustaining that growth, and the communities’ needs are substantial,” Dr. Burgess said. “I’ve hosted this event every year since 2005 with the goal of bringing together stakeholders and to facilitate partnerships and revitalization efforts to overcome the obstacles East and Southeast Fort Worth faces. The short-term goal is to recognize ways growth can be spurred, and the long-term goal is to ensure that the projects and improvements are sustainable, which is a key component to success.” 8th Annual East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit Friday, September 28, 2012 8:30 am to 1 pm *registration begins at 8 am Texas Wesleyan University Lou’s Place Pavilion 1112 Wesleyan Street Fort Worth, TX 76105 Summit Highlights Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Morning Keynote: Richard W. Fisher, President & CEO, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Economic Update: City of Fort Worth Luncheon Keynote: Jennifer Purdy, Assistant Director for Outpatient Services, VA North Texas Health Care System Experts from local, state and federal organizations Constituents wanting more information regarding the 8th Annual East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit can visit burgess.house.gov/economicdevelopment. To RSVP for the summit constituents can send an email to TX26RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (817) 531-8454. ###
08.02.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee released an extensive report outlining key findings of the committee’s investigation into the Department of Energy’s management of the loan guarantee program. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), released the following statement after the report’s release: share: f t Burgess Statement on Solyndra Committee Report “The Department of Energy’s loan guarantee program is just another chapter in the Obama administration’s failed economic novel and another example of their broken promise to be transparent.” Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee released an extensive report outlining key findings of the committee’s investigation into the Department of Energy’s management of the loan guarantee program. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), released the following statement after the report’s release: “In a rush to create a success story following his inauguration, President Obama directed his agencies to fast track billions of taxpayer dollars in grants and loan for companies that would have otherwise never qualified for loans in the private sector. Solyndra is unfortunately only one of many examples of companies that received federal dollars, over half a billion dollars, and then subsequently filed for bankruptcy. “During our committee’s 18-month investigation, we’ve reviewed over 300,000 pages of documents, held hearings, and are now able to provide a thorough review of what we’ve uncovered. This entire ordeal was avoidable had the Obama administration chosen to provide the information from the start. Why was it necessary to draw this out for as long as they did? What happened to the transparency they promised? Why were they withholding information? “What we have learned is that the Department of Energy violated the law and knew that the Solyndra loan guarantee was destined to fail, yet they continued to parade its so-called “success.” The Department of Energy’s loan guarantee program is just another chapter in the Obama administration’s failed economic novel and another example of their broken promise to be transparent.” To view the report, click here. To view the supporting documents, click here. ###
08.01.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. share: f t Burgess Requests Nominations for 2012 Congressional Veteran Commendation “Our nation’s veterans have proudly and honorably served our country and preserved our freedom, and it is because of their service that we enjoy all the liberties we are afforded.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. “Our nation’s veterans have proudly and honorably served our country and preserved our freedom, and it is because of their service that we enjoy all the liberties we are afforded,” said Dr. Burgess. “These brave men and women deserve our thanks and praise, and I am proud to recognize the veterans in Texas’ 26th Congressional District and honor their service through the 2012 Congressional Veteran Commendation.” To nominate a veteran for the 26th Congressional District Veteran Commendation, please fill out the nomination form, which can be found on Dr. Burgess’ website at http://burgess.house.gov. The deadline for submitting nominations is September 10, 2012. The completed nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, should be submitted to Dr. Burgess’ Lewisville office. To be eligible for nomination, veterans must be currently residing in the 26th District of Texas, have served the nation honorably during their military career, and subsequently demonstrated dedication to their community. Those individuals selected to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation will be recognized and honored at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association on November 8, 2012. An in-depth interview will be conducted with commendees and that interview will be forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection. For more information regarding the project, visit the Library of Congress’ website. To obtain additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the 26th District of Texas, please contact Dr. Burgess’ District Administrator, Robin Vaughan, at (972) 434-9700 or visit Dr. Burgess’ website. ###
07.30.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting on Wednesday, August 8, 2012 in Fort Worth. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as unemployment, taxes, and the health care are expected to be discussed. share: f t Burgess To Hold Keller and Fort Worth Town Hall Meeting Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting on Wednesday, August 8, 2012 in Fort Worth. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as unemployment, taxes, and the health care are expected to be discussed. Keller and Fort Worth Town Hall Meeting Wednesday, August 8, 2012 7 pm to 8 pm Timber Creek High School Cafeteria 12350 Timberland Boulevard Fort Worth, Texas For constituents unable to attend the meeting in person, the town hall is scheduled for live broadcast on Dr. Burgess’ website. For more information on the town hall meeting visit burgess.house.gov/TownHall. *Persons requiring special accommodations should contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled meeting at 972-434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
07.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, has introduced H.R. 6142, the Assuring Medicare Stability and Access for Seniors Act of 2012. This legislation will provide a one year extension for Medicare physician payment rates to ensure continued access for Medicare beneficiaries and TRICARE recipients. share: f t Burgess Introduces Legislation to Provide One Year Extension for Medicare Physician Payment Rates “Allowing for a one year extension now will prove early to our seniors, physicians, and health care providers that they are at the forefront of our minds and our legislative agenda, and we will not leave them uncertain about how the upcoming “fiscal cliff” will impact their care.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, has introduced H.R. 6142, the Assuring Medicare Stability and Access for Seniors Act of 2012. This legislation will provide a one year extension for Medicare physician payment rates to ensure continued access for Medicare beneficiaries and TRICARE recipients. “By providing one more year of stability we make a critical, initial step towards ridding ourselves of this problematic and inadequate payment system,” said Dr. Burgess. “Allowing for a one year extension now will prove early to our seniors, physicians, and health care providers that they are at the forefront of our minds and our legislative agenda, and we will not leave them uncertain about how the upcoming “fiscal cliff” will impact their care.” As numerous fiscal deadlines create a potential collision at the end of this year, kicking the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) provision of legislative relief down the road is dangerous. In order to guarantee a substantive, long term plan, guaranteeing proper services for Medicare beneficiaries, doctors need to first be provided with payment certainty for 2013. “Despite Congress’ continual enactment of last minute legislation to prevent these cuts from going into effect over the last few years, eleventh-hour legislative maneuvers should no longer take the place of a stable and secure solution,” said Dr. Burgess. “I have never seen so much progress made on this issue than this year, but Congress must have more time to work with stakeholders on crafting a permanent replacement. While this legislation will provide a one year extension, Congress must continue to work towards a permanent fix that will solve the issue once and for all, and this bill provides that time.” To download a copy of H.R. 6142 click here. ###
07.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6079, Repeal of Obamacare Act, by a vote of 244 to 185. share: f t Burgess Statement on Health Care Repeal Vote “The health care system in America needs reform and improvements, but the law that was passed will cost American taxpayers trillions of dollars, will not improve care, nor will it make care more affordable.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6079, Repeal of Obamacare Act, by a vote of 244 to 185. “Americans should have the freedom to make their own health care decisions. In March of 2010 the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law. It was drafted quickly and behind closed doors. It included secret deals, loopholes, drafting errors, and allowed federal agencies to be created without Congressional knowledge or oversight. The bottom line, it was not the way to achieve meaningful reform. In addition, the Supreme Court ruled just last month that the law is in fact a tax – this is after President Obama continually told the American people that it was not a tax. “The health care system in America needs reform and improvements, but the law that was passed will cost American taxpayers trillions of dollars, will not improve care, nor will it make care more affordable. We need to start fresh and need to address the issues with common sense improvements that focus on the real issues at hand: creating a health care system that is focused on patients instead of payments, quality instead of quantity, affordability instead of cheapness, and innovation instead of stagnation. “The first step is eliminating bad legislation that simply does not work. So today I voted to repeal the president’s health care law. It is important that the American people know where their elected representatives stand on this issue and clearly the Senate needs to take up this legislation.” Dr. Burgess spoke on the House Floor during the debate in support of the legislation. You can view the video by clicking here. ###
07.06.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has announced that on Saturday, July 14, he will host the 2012 Energy Summit & Fair at the University of North Texas’ Business Leadership Building. Local and state officials, as well as industry experts and businesses, will attend and speak at the summit and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient while saving on their energy costs. share: f t Burgess, Local Leaders, and Industry Experts to Discuss Energy “We must all do our part to become more energy efficient and strive for an energy independent America.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has announced that on Saturday, July 14, he will host the 2012 Energy Summit & Fair at the University of North Texas’ Business Leadership Building. Local and state officials, as well as industry experts and businesses, will attend and speak at the summit and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient while saving on their energy costs. The summit will feature two panels, the first will focus on ways to save energy in design and construction of buildings and houses, and the second will discuss energy efficiency and conservation for mobility. Texas Railroad Commissioner David J. Porter will serve as the keynote speaker. The summit will also feature a fair with booths providing energy-related information and resources. There will also be efficient vehicles on display. “We must all do our part to become more energy efficient and strive for an energy independent America,” Dr. Burgess said. “I invite you to join me as I bring together experts to discuss our country’s energy agenda, including the future of energy in America, ways Texas has lead the nation in many types of renewable energies, and how recent federal policies will impact Texas.” 2012 Energy Summit & Fair Saturday, July 14, 2012 8:30 a.m. to 12 noon University of North Texas • Business Leadership Building 1307 W. Highland Street • Denton, TX 76201 Complimentary covered parking with voucher is available in the adjacent Highland Street Parking Garage. Vouchers can be obtained at the sign-in table in the Business Leadership Building. Free parking is also available in surrounding lots, but the public is asked to not park in restricted areas. Hosted By: Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Keynote Speaker: Texas Railroad Commissioner David J. Porter For constituents unable to attend the summit in person, it is scheduled for live broadcast on Dr. Burgess’ website, /EnergySummit. Constituents wanting more information regarding the 2012 Energy Summit & Fair can visit /EnergySummit, or contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at (972) 434-9700 or by e-mail: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
07.03.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement in recognition of Independence Day. “As millions across the world struggle for democracy and independence, on July 4 we are reminded that 236 years ago our founding fathers adopted the Declaration of Independence, establishing freedom as a core principle of our great nation. The freedoms that we enjoy today are because of the bravery of those who had the courage to build this country on principles of independence and because of those who have continued to fight for our liberty. May God continue to bless America.” share: f t Burgess Statement on Independence Day Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement in recognition of Independence Day. “As millions across the world struggle for democracy and independence, on July 4 we are reminded that 236 years ago our founding fathers adopted the Declaration of Independence, establishing freedom as a core principle of our great nation. The freedoms that we enjoy today are because of the bravery of those who had the courage to build this country on principles of independence and because of those who have continued to fight for our liberty. May God continue to bless America.” ###
06.28.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled to uphold the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. “The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is detrimental to our society, our economy, and to the future of health care in America. Since its inception we have seen the strain it has placed on our economy through its ever increasing price tag, provisions which discourage small businesses to hire, higher costs, and excessive government regulations. share: f t Burgess Statement on Supreme Court Ruling “The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is detrimental to our society, our economy and to the future of health care in America.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled to uphold the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. “The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is detrimental to our society, our economy, and to the future of health care in America. Since its inception we have seen the strain it has placed on our economy through its ever increasing price tag, provisions which discourage small businesses to hire, higher costs, and excessive government regulations. “President Obama stated multiple times that the penalty associated with the individual mandate was not a tax; however, the Supreme Court today affirmed that indeed it was a tax. In fact, it is a tax increase and a very large tax on middle-class America. When millions are unemployed the last thing America needs is another tax. “This decision by the Supreme Court is paramount and signals to the House of Representatives that it is our responsibility to repeal this over burdensome law which increases taxes on middle class families, and replace it with common-sense policies that encourage economic growth and protect American’s access to care. The House has voted to repeal the legislation and will do so again next month.” ###
06.26.2012	Washington, D.C. – After months of negotiations and congressional hearings, the House and Senate have passed The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act. The legislation, which Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) was influential in crafting major provisions, will address important issues to enhance the work of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) while correcting missteps of the agency in areas such as public input, good guidance practices, and the manufacture of custom devices. share: f t Bipartisan Legislation Will Enhance FDA “This is about patients and they will be better served by the passage this bill.” Washington, D.C. – After months of negotiations and congressional hearings, the House and Senate have passed The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act. The legislation, which Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) was influential in crafting major provisions, will address important issues to enhance the work of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) while correcting missteps of the agency in areas such as public input, good guidance practices, and the manufacture of custom devices. “The process to this vote from the very beginning was respectful and resulted from hundreds of hours of negotiations,” said Dr. Burgess. “By working together we were able to address key areas of concern allowing the industry to continue to partner in providing physicians and health care providers the tools they need to prevent and alleviate human suffering. It will also ensure that the FDA has the scientific and medical expertise they need when reviewing products utilizing emerging science or those for rare disease populations. This is about patients and they will be better served by the passage of this bill.” The final version of the legislation that passed the Senate retains significant reforms made in the House bill and enhances other provisions, such as drug shortages. In addition, the legislation will ensure that the FDA has the scientific and medical expertise they need when reviewing products utilizing emerging science or those for rare disease populations. “It is important that we spur innovation for antibiotic, rare disease, and pediatric oncology drug development and enhance other provisions such as drug shortages,” said Dr. Burgess. “I still believe that we should strengthen and improve the oversight of laboratory-developed tests instead of even contemplating duplicative regulation.” President Obama is expected to sign the legislation into law before Thursday morning. ###
06.22.2012	Washington, D.C. – At a reception prior to the opening of the Denton Airshow, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) recently recognized the students residing in the 26th District of Texas who have accepted appointments to the United States Service Academies. Later this summer the young men and women will be entering the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. share: f t Burgess Honors Service Academy Appointees “I was pleased to nominate incredible young men and women who will be the future leaders of our armed forces and America.” Washington, D.C. – At a reception prior to the opening of the Denton Airshow, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) recently recognized the students residing in the 26th District of Texas who have accepted appointments to the United States Service Academies. Later this summer the young men and women will be entering the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are rigorously evaluated on a variety of criteria including academic performance, leadership qualifications and physical preparedness. Appointments to an academy must be preceded by a nomination from a Member of Congress, Academy Superintendent, the Vice President or a military connected nomination. Dr. Burgess presented appointees with a Special Certificate of Congressional Recognition and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their appointment. "I was pleased to nominate incredible young men and women who will be the future leaders of our armed forces and America,” stated Dr. Burgess. “I am even more delighted and grateful that these future leaders have accepted this challenge to serve their country." Those students from the 26th Congressional District who will be attending the service academies are: U.S. Military Academy Ben Barclay of Flower Mound attended Flower Mound High School Robert Felix of Lewisville attended the U.S. Military Academy Prep School Aaron Horikami of Flower Mound attended Flower Mound High School Michael Nathman of Fort Worth attended The Oakridge School in Arlington Adam Wilde of Denton, is returning to West Point after serving a religious mission Nicole Zajimovic of North Richland Hills attended Richland High School U.S. Naval Academy Forrest Cooke of Flower Mound attended Lewisville High School Hayden Whitt of Keller attended Keller High School Robert Sutherland of Denton attended the Hill School in Pottsdown, PA U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Nicholas Hernandez-Sepper of Frisco attended Wakeland High School Joshua Raines of North Richland Hills attended Keller High School Andrew Williams of Lantana attended Guyer High School in Denton U.S. Air Force Academy Cody Apfel of Highland Village attended Marcus High School in Flower Mound Craig Corato of Keller attended Nolan Catholic High School in Fort Worth Zach Moer of Flower Mound attended the U.S. Air Force Academy Prep School Leah Weber of Flower Mound was homeschooled Additional information regarding the academy nomination and application process may be obtained on Dr. Burgess’ website at http://burgess.house.gov or by contacting Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, in the Lewisville district office at (972) 434-9700. ***To download a photo of Dr. Burgess with the service academy appointees click here. Photo: (pictured left to right) Congressman Burgess, Aaron Horikami, Forrest Cooke, Robert Felix, Nicholas Hernandez-Sepper, Zach Moer, Michael Nathman, Josh Raines, Craig Corato, Robert Sutherland, Leah Weber, Hayden Whitt)*** ###
06.15.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) issued the following statement after President Obama and the Department of Homeland Security announced earlier today that it will stop deporting and grant illegal immigrants work permits if they came to the United States as children. share: f t Burgess Statement on Executive Order “With over 12 million Americans unemployed, President Obama showed that he is not concerned with policies that will put them back to work.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) issued the following statement after President Obama and the Department of Homeland Security announced earlier today that it will stop deporting and grant illegal immigrants work permits if they came to the United States as children. “With over 12 million Americans unemployed, President Obama showed that he is not concerned with policies that will put them back to work. Instead, he wants to put illegal immigrants ahead of the rule of law and provide them with work permits. This is not only a reckless decision, but one that will continue to block opportunities for American citizens to find employment. I urge the president to stop supporting amnesty and to stop creating policy that will continue to make it harder for Americans to find work.” ###
06.12.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) today wrote the Government Accountability Office (GAO) calling for an investigation of the Departments of Energy’s (DOE) continued support for the floundering United States Enrichment Corporation (USEC). In their letter to the GAO, the lawmakers point to USEC’s inability to avoid insolvency in the absence of continued DOE bailouts, most recently in the form of $44 million in assistance so that the company could continue work on USEC’s flawed centrifuge technology and tens of thousands of tons of free uranium transferred from the Energy Department to stave off an immediate shut down of its Kentucky enrichment facility. Additionally, the Congressmen cite the recent credit downgrading, technical problems, and inaccurate assertions about the national security benefits as reasons why the nuclear enrichment program may never reach full commercialization. share: f t Burgess, Markey Call For GAO Investigation of DOE Support for Near-Bankrupt USEC Precarious financial situation, contravention of laws, inaccurate national security benefits underscore risk for bailout of nuclear enrichment company WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) today wrote the Government Accountability Office (GAO) calling for an investigation of the Departments of Energy’s (DOE) continued support for the floundering United States Enrichment Corporation (USEC). In their letter to the GAO, the lawmakers point to USEC’s inability to avoid insolvency in the absence of continued DOE bailouts, most recently in the form of $44 million in assistance so that the company could continue work on USEC’s flawed centrifuge technology and tens of thousands of tons of free uranium transferred from the Energy Department to stave off an immediate shut down of its Kentucky enrichment facility. Additionally, the Congressmen cite the recent credit downgrading, technical problems, and inaccurate assertions about the national security benefits as reasons why the nuclear enrichment program may never reach full commercialization. “The Department of Energy has been harming the uranium mining industry for years, dumping excess uranium tails into the market to prop up a failing company that couldn't stand on its own feet. As a result, thousands of miners from Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, Utah, and others, have had their livelihoods put in jeopardy,” said Rep. Burgess. “It is time the Department of Energy is held accountable for their activities. This GAO report will be the first step in bringing justice for an industry still damaged by Department of Energy policies.” “We’ve been told this earmark is all about avoiding risk to our national security, but the real risks of this nuclear bailout is for taxpayers who will be on the hook for questionable government handouts that are worth more than the entire company,” said Rep. Markey. “The GAO should immediately commence an investigation into DOE’s ongoing support for USEC before we throw more money at a company whose junk bond status and junk technology make it better suited for the budgetary junk heap.” A copy of the letter to the GAO can be found HERE. In the letter, Reps. Burgess and Markey request the GAO’s investigation to examine issues including: The assertion that the USEC program is needed in order to fulfill a national security need appears to be inaccurate. The Department of Energy’s assertion that continuing to bail out USEC is the only way the U.S. can get the tritium needed for America’s nuclear weapons program appears to be untrue. Rep. Markey requested reports from the Congressional Research Service that dispute this claim. Additionally, it appears as if the USEC centrifuges themselves use foreign technology, raising questions as to whether even USEC is eligible to do this nuclear weapons work using DOE’s own questionable eligibility criteria. The Department’s recent uranium transfer announcement may violate the USEC Privatization Act and may additionally not include adequate safeguards. The USEC Privatization Act requires DOE to ensure that transfers, including the one announced May 15 to avoid shutdown of the USEC facility in Paducah, Kentucky, will not have an adverse material impact on the domestic uranium mining, conversion, or enrichment industry. The Department had to alter its long-standing standard for assessing such adverse impacts in order to enter into the agreement, agreed to transfer forms of uranium that GAO has previously concluded DOE lacked the statutory authority to transfer, and does not appear to have ensured that it has any mechanism to oversee or enforce the terms of the agreement. The Department of Energy and USEC may be out of compliance with other statutes, including the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA). For example, the Natural Resources Committee Democratic staff has been told that the stakeholder consultation processes required under NHPA are not being properly performed at USEC’s Ohio facility, and the Department’s current NEPA analysis appears to be based on outdated assumptions regarding the amount of uranium it plans to transfer to private entities. ###
05.18.2012	The Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act directs the states to establish and maintain laws requiring disclosure of information on hospital charges. Additionally, the bill requires hospitals and health plans to make such information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. share: f t Burgess and Green Legislation Provides Patients Cost Information for Health Care “Patients could review their options with up-front information about the costs of a medical procedure and other expenses in health care services.” Washington, D.C. —U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and U.S. Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) have introduced H.R. 5800, the Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act of 2012. Their bipartisan bill aims to make health care more affordable by promoting greater transparency about the costs of health care services for patients. “Patients could review their options with up-front information about the costs of a medical procedure and other expenses in health care services,” Burgess said. “A patient should be able to know what they are buying and how much they will pay out-of-pocket. Arming patients with cost information is an important step in improving our country’s health care system with the focus on the patient.” The Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act directs the states to establish and maintain laws requiring disclosure of information on hospital charges. Additionally, the bill requires hospitals and health plans to make such information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. Representatives Burgess and Green requested a General Accountability Office report, which found that cost information is helpful to patients, who often have difficulty accessing reliable and consistent price information. Health care costs are increasing at an alarming rate. In 2010, total national health expenditures rose over 3.9 percent – just over double the rate of inflation. Total spending was $2.6 trillion in 2010, or $8,327 per person. Total health care spending represented 17.9 percent of the Gross Domestic Product. U.S. health care spending is expected to increase at similar levels for the next decade reaching $4.6 trillion in 2020, or 20 percent of GDP. “Our current health care system needs to be reformed. Unfortunately, with all of the bureaucracy and paperwork, few people including patients and physicians know where money is going. This makes it hard to identify the base problem and begin to help curb increasing health care costs,” said Rep. Green. “This legislation will be a first step in a long-term solution to clear up the confusion, and will let us move towards affordable, quality health care for all Americans.” The American Hospital Association endorses the Burgess-Green legislation, noting evidence of the ongoing success of states and state hospital associations to collect and disseminate hospital pricing information. Text of the bill is now posted on the Library of Congress legislative website, Thomas . #
05.04.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) announced the winner of the tenth annual 26th Congressional District art competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” share: f t Burgess Announces Winners of Congressional Competition: “An Artistic Discovery” Flower Mound High School Student’s Work to be Displayed in U.S. Capitol LEWISVILLE, TEXAS – Today, U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) announced the winner of the tenth annual 26th Congressional District art competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Katherine Choi, a junior art student of Alisha Douglass at Flower Mound High School, won Grand Prize in the 2012 competition with her oil painting entitled “Through the Buildings.” The art competition was open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the district. “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic achievements of our local high school students and to share the results of those talents with our area and the rest of the country,” Congressman Burgess said. “Katherine’s work makes the 26th District proud. She is a very talented young woman with a tremendous gift.” Congressman Burgess honored all the finalists at a reception recently at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton hosted by the art competition’s co-sponsor, The Greater Denton Arts Council. The juried competition was judged by professional artist and instructor Jo Williams. For the first time, this year’s entries were submitted digitally by art teachers on behalf of their students. This provided an opportunity for a new public category: the “Texas Choice” winner selected by popular vote in the virtual gallery on Congressman Burgess’ website. Over 3800 individuals cast votes for their favorite artwork; Katherine Choi was the winner of this category also. As the Grand Prize winner, Katherine Choi will have her artwork displayed for an entire year in the U.S. Capitol and has the opportunity to attend the national ceremony in Washington, DC in June. The first, second, third winners were announced as well: First place was awarded to Nadia Rosales; she is a junior at Ryan High School in Denton. Nadia is the student of Todd Ford and her artwork will be displayed in Congressman Burgess’ Washington, DC office for the upcoming year. Brooks Morrow, a senior art student of Kathy Toews at Marcus High School, placed second with his art. Madison McDaniel is a senior at Keller High School and student of Liz Bonham, whose artwork won third place. Both students have the opportunity to have their artwork displayed in Congressman Burgess’ district office for the next year. ###
05.01.2012	The way forward is inherently difficult. It is important, however that the decisions made and put into motion by this agreement work for the benefit of both Afghanistan and America. share: f t Burgess Statement on the President’s Address on Afghanistan “The way forward is inherently difficult. It is important, however that the decisions made and put into motion by this agreement work for the benefit of both Afghanistan and America.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) tonight made the following statement regarding the President’s address on continued American involvement in Afghanistan: “I welcome President Obama’s travel to Afghanistan to see matters first-hand on the ground. The President recognizes his involvement is an extremely important part of finding a way forward. “Reflecting on my return from Afghanistan just last week, I expect the President saw circumstances that remain similar. There’s no question that diligence and sacrifice of all our soldiers has made a significant difference in the outlook in Afghanistan. “Signing of this strategic agreement marks long days ahead, fraught with peril and difficulty for America, the Karzai government, and the people of Afghanistan. In my meeting there with Afghans who are allied for reforms in the current government, they articulated many of the American public’s concerns regarding American involvement and the future of Afghanistan. The way forward is inherently difficult. It is important, however that the decisions made and put into motion by this agreement work for the benefit of both Afghanistan and America.” ###
04.30.2012	U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) expressed expectations for the next EPA Regional Administrator to engage professionally in solving North Texas’ environmental challenges, following the resignation of EPA political appointee, Al Armendariz. share: f t Burgess Expects Professionalism of Next EPA Regional Administrator “The public expects an effective and professional approach to addressing their concerns about their water supply and air quality – not the politically-motivated approach that I hope is gone with the resignation of EPA political appointee Al Armendariz.” Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) expressed expectations for the next EPA Regional Administrator to engage professionally in solving North Texas’ environmental challenges, following the resignation of EPA political appointee, Al Armendariz. Dr. Burgess said a practiced pattern of hostility was illustrated by the Armendariz enforcement philosophy: Make an example of a select few domestic oil and gas producers to “crucify them.” Dr. Burgess, representing North Texas on the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee, has sought to see that EPA and state officials work to effectively address groundwater and air quality concerns. “The public expects an effective and professional approach to addressing their concerns about their water supply and air quality – not the politically-motivated approach that I hope is gone with the resignation of EPA political appointee Al Armendariz,” said Burgess, who had called for Armendariz to be fired after the comments that summarized an approach of scare tactics rather than effective enforcement to solve North Texans’ environmental concerns. Dr. Burgess encourages the next EPA Regional Administrator to support the congressman’s ongoing efforts on behalf of North Texas residents: · Encouraging full review and objective studies by Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TECQ) and Dept of State Health Services. · Support for environmental and industry groups to provide official public comments prior to proposed TCEQ regulations surrounding natural gas drilling permits. · Active participation in U.S. House Energy & Commerce Committee hearings in Texas and in Washington, D.C. regarding hydraulic fracturing. · Working with local officials to address community concerns surrounding increased energy production in residential communities, including DISH and Flower Mound. · Support municipal governments’ decisions on oil and natural gas permitting, siting, and production within their localities. · Resolve concerns with national gas drilling by using science to guide energy development. · Working with the Texas Railroad Commission on specific complaints on well-water clarity. ###
04.28.2012	President Obama repeatedly promised lower health care costs and insurance premiums. Now, the analysis of businesses executives from his own Council on Jobs and Competitiveness reflect deep worries about the costly job-crippling impacts and threats to employee-provided insurance from the President’s signature health care law. share: f t President’s Job Council Members Cite Worries on Health Care Law “Whatever they may have told the President about the impact of his health care law, internal reports from these companies now reveal concerns for increased costs and uncertainty.” Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D., a member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said that while President Obama repeatedly promised lower health care costs and insurance premiums, the analysis of businesses executives from his own Council on Jobs and Competitiveness reflect deep worries about the costly job-crippling impacts and threats to employee-provided insurance from the President’s signature health care law. “Whatever they may have told the President about the impact of his health care law, internal reports from these companies now reveal concerns for increased costs and uncertainty,” said Dr. Burgess. “Documents produced by members of the President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness reveal what many working Americans may have also have worried: that the President’s health care law increases costs – not decreases costs.” Southwest Airlines’ analysis in June 2010 stated its broader concerns from increased costs: “For example, over the next ten years, the legislation will impose taxes and fees of $107 billion on insurance companies…as well as on pharmaceutical manufacturers. Without question, some or all of those taxes and fees will be passed on to Southwest Airlines. Also, certain coverage provisions…will increase Southwest’s costs.” The documents provided by Jobs Council member companies to the Investigations Subcommittee show there will be strong incentives for companies to drop coverage – and just pay a federal penalty for not providing their employees with insurance: Southwest Airlines: “$414 million to provide healthcare versus $111 million in penalties.” Boeing: “It’s probable that many employers will decide to discontinue offering health plans in the post-health care reform environment.” The Investigations Subcommittee found all members of the President’s Jobs Council stating they want to maintain a loyal workforce and that providing health care benefits is an important factor in maintaining that workforce. However, President Obama’s health care law raises costs for businesses and gives them incentives to drop their health care plans. If one company drops its health care coverage, competitors may be forced to drop coverage in order to compete. The Jobs Council report by the House Commerce Investigations & Oversight Subcommittee is posted at http://t.co/ITNb8D9I ###
04.27.2012	Energy and Commerce Committee member, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. has called for EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson to fire her political appointee, Al Armendariz, after Armendariz’s recorded comments surfaced, summarizing his enforcement philosophy toward domestic oil and gas producers. share: f t Burgess Calls for Firing EPA Regional Administrator “The Al Armendariz philosophy is entrenched in the Obama EPA’s culture of hostility toward domestic energy production –Armendariz says, “You crucify them.” Washington, D.C. – Energy and Commerce Committee member, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. has called for EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson to fire her political appointee, Al Armendariz, after Armendariz’s recorded comments surfaced, summarizing his enforcement philosophy toward domestic oil and gas producers. Dr. Burgess released the following statement: EPA Regional Administrator Al Armendariz bluntly stated his philosophy on federal enforcement of oil and gas regulation that is rooted in the crudest and most unproductive approach: To make examples out of people just as the Roman conquerors did – and instructing his staff by example on how to carry out his philosophy of enforcement – which is – and I quote Armendariz – “you crucify them.” His comment in a videotaped speech reflects his immature and threatening attitude toward those who drill for America’s oil and gas independence. In North Texas, those who Al Armendariz would crucify are employers, who support good-paying jobs for thousands of families. EPA’s assault on these companies shocks the conscience. The Al Armendariz philosophy is entrenched in the Obama EPA’s culture of hostility toward domestic energy production. EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson is quick to claim she cares about science, but is even quicker to jump the gun by using public scare tactics that have no grounding in science: From falsely accusing the Parker County business Range Resources, to releasing unsound reports on natural gas drilling in Wyoming and Pennsylvania, this EPA will push its agenda no matter what the case. In the words coming right from the mouth of Al Armendariz, is the core EPA philosophy of an unyielding and hostile approach that he repeatedly took with the people of North Texas over the past couple of years. Government service is no place for Al Armendariz – someone who lacks the emotional ability to deal competently and professionally on behalf of the American people. EPA’s Administrator Lisa Jackson must fire him and replace him with a public servant who has the emotional temperament to work for solutions, instead of a blinding hatred based on his own political philosophy.
04.12.2012	Experts will share the current plans for disaster response, outdoor emergency warning systems, the next severe storm warning system, a demonstration by search and rescue dogs, and personalized advice on what items are needed on a moment’s notice to evacuate share: f t Chance may favor the prepared, but North Texans can be more certain of their own safety during weather and natural disasters after attending the Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair on Saturday, April 14 in Denton at Guyer High School. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has coordinated the event for the fourth year for the public to talk with local, state and federal officials, at the outset of severe weather season. “I hope North Texas residents will share their interest in pre-planning with neighbors,” said Dr. Burgess. “It’s a productive way to spend a Saturday morning, to come and go for specific questions, or stay to listen to the experts’ presentations.” Experts will share the current plans for disaster response, outdoor emergency warning systems, the next severe storm warning system, a demonstration by search and rescue dogs, and personalized advice on what items are needed on a moment’s notice to evacuate. In addition, there will be a fair with demonstrations and booths where weather and disaster specific organizations will present and distribute practical emergency information. The event opens at 8 a.m. with access to the fair, and presentations begin at 8:30 a.m. Chief Meteorologist for Fox 4, Dan Henry, delivers the keynote address. Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair Saturday, April 14, 2012 8 a.m. – 12 noon Guyer High School 7501 Teasley Lane Denton, TX 76210 Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Fox 4 Chief Meteorologist Dan Henry Weather and preparedness experts from local, state and federal organizations Constituents wanting more information regarding the Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair can visit /EmergencyPreparedness, or contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at (972) 434-9700 or by e-mail: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
04.10.2012	Artwork from 25 North Texas high school art students were announced by U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Tuesday as finalists in "An Artistic Discovery," the annual Congressional High School Art Competition. share: f t Artwork from 25 North Texas high school art students were announced by U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Tuesday as finalists in "An Artistic Discovery," the annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Finalists from each of the area high schools and the one winner of the popular vote “Texas Choice” will now be reviewed by an art juror designated by The Greater Denton Arts Council for selection as Grand Prize, First, Second and Third Place winners to be announced April 30th. “I would like to thank every student and art teacher who submitted works to this year's Congressional Art Competition,” said Dr. Burgess. “The response was overwhelming and the talent of our students is incredible. Please take the time to browse the finalists and honorable mentions on our burgess.house.gov website.” For the first time, this year’s entries were submitted digitally by art teachers on behalf of their students for a new public category: the “Texas Choice.” Flower Mound High School student Katherine Choi’s “Through the Buildings” cityscape was selected by popular vote in the virtual gallery on the congressman’s website. Miss Choi’s work was also selected as among “Best of School” representing Flower Mound High School. The Best of School selections are made of one student from each school based on the art juror's appraisal of their work as the best piece among all art work submitted by that school. Listed by high school, the Best of School finalists are: Lone Star High School’s Justin Wilkerson for "Carousel in Motion", Timber Creek High School’s Nia Ortega for "Watching the Race", Billy Ryan High School’s Nadia Rosales for "Trouble Hunting", John Guyer High School’s Bailey Cage for "Rainy Day", Lake Dallas High School’s Nicole Canada for "Longing", Coram Deo Academy’s Anna Brock for "Life", Flower Mound High School’s Katherine Choi for "Through the Buildings", Keller High School’s Madison McDaniel for "The Marina", Liberty Christian School’s Colby Dowdle for "Ryder & Kage", Everman High School’s Maria Vasquez for "Cut Me", Nolan Catholic High School’s Feliza Vidaurri for "June Bug in Flight", Marcus High School’s Brooks Morrow for "The Explorer", Byron Nelson High School’s Tiffany Hester for "Jazz is a Sweet Sound", Polytechnic High School’s Claudia Acosta for "Fish in a Pond", and Westlake Academy’s Caitlin Burke for "The Change". The Juror's Award is based on the juror's appraisal of artwork having a high level of artistic merit and execution ranking under that of the Best of School Award. These students are also finalists in the competition: Timber Creek High School’s Anna McKay for "Aspirations", Billy Ryan High School’s Lindsey Hanley for "Lost in Motion", Flower Mound High School’s Nicholas Woodwell for "Allee", Liberty Christian School’s Marissa Marrs for "New York Nostalgia", and Marcus High School’s Kaitlyn Herber for"Leaf". The Juror's Honorable Mention recognizes a high level of artistic merit although not selected for Best of School or Juror's Choice by the juror. These students are not finalists in the competition, but through Honorable Mention will receive recognition of their talent and hard work: Timber Creek High School’s Courtney McDonald for "Bromeliad Brilliance"and Brianna Rebosio for "Hudson", Flower Mound High School’s Reid Fagerquist for "Suspension", and Liberty Christian School’s Emily Vick for "Stained" and Kristin Smith for "Irish Enigma". Artwork selected as the Grand Prize winner will be displayed for an entire year in the U.S. Capitol. The Grand Prize winning artist will be invited along with one parent/guardian to attend the national reception in Washington, DC in June. The First Place winner may have their artwork displayed in the Washington, DC office, while Second and Third Place winners' artwork may be displayed publicly in Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville or Fort Worth district offices for the upcoming year. Hundreds of thousands of talented high school students have served as artistic ambassadors of their communities in the 30 years since the U.S. House of Representatives created the competition. ###
04.09.2012	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) invites area students who are interested in learning more about our nation’s service academies to attend the 2012 North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum on Saturday, April 21st from 8 a.m. until noon at First Baptist Church in Carrollton. share: f t Burgess Announces North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum “North Texas students and their families will be able to attend this free event which will provide the opportunity to learn more about the application process for some of the nation’s top-notch educational institutions.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) invites area students who are interested in learning more about our nation’s service academies to attend the 2012 North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum on Saturday, April 21st from 8 a.m. until noon at First Baptist Church in Carrollton. The event, which is free and open to the public, is co-sponsored by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Senator John Cornyn, Congressman Sam Johnson, Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman Joe Barton, Congresswoman Kay Granger, Congressman Bill Flores, Congressman Kenny Marchant, and Congressman Pete Sessions. “North Texas students and their families will be able to attend this free event which will provide the opportunity to learn more about the application process for some of the nation’s top-notch educational institutions,” Dr. Burgess said. “I am pleased to support this informative event with my congressional colleagues.” North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum Saturday, April 21, 2011 8:00 AM – 12:00 Noon Registration begins at 7:30 AM First Baptist Church 2400 North Josey Lane Carrollton, Texas 75006 Representatives from congressional offices, all five academies - U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy - and ROTC, as well as current academy cadets and midshipmen, will be on hand to speak with students and their families one-on-one about the excellent possibilities associated with attending these premier educational institutions, and the sorts of careers they generate. This informational forum provides interested students in grades eight through twelve the opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission and the selection process. For more information regarding the Academies Forum, visit burgess.house.gov/AcademyForum, or contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at (972) 434-9700 or by e-mail: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
03.30.2012	“There is a wealth of information available to families and businesses in North Texans on how they can prepare and plan for severe weather and natural disasters,” said Dr. Burgess. “I want to make sure North Texans are prepared with the tools and knowledge for an emergency.” share: f t The weather in North Texas is unpredictable and can change in an instant. North Texans can never be too prepared for the natural disasters that may impact the region. In an effort to help residents and businesses be better prepared for severe weather and natural disasters, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), is hosting the fourth annual Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair on Saturday, April 14 in Denton. The event will feature two panels of experts from local, state, and federal organizations, and will provide information on weather and disaster preparedness. In addition, there will be a fair with demonstrations and booths where weather and disaster specific organizations will present and distribute practical emergency information. The event will open at 8 a.m. with access to the fair, and presentations will begin at 8:30 a.m. Chief Meteorologist for Fox 4, Dan Henry, will deliver the keynote address. “There is a wealth of information available to families and businesses in North Texans on how they can prepare and plan for severe weather and natural disasters,” said Dr. Burgess. “I want to make sure North Texans are prepared with the tools and knowledge for an emergency.” Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair Saturday, April 14, 2012 8 a.m. – 12 noon Guyer High School 7501 Teasley Lane Denton, TX 76210 Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Fox 4 Chief Meteorologist Dan Henry Weather and preparedness experts from local, state and federal organizations Constituents wanting more information regarding the Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair can visit /EmergencyPreparedness, or contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at (972) 434-9700 or by e-mail: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
03.22.2012	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) made the following statement regarding Thursday’s 223 to 181 vote from the House of Representatives sending a bill to the Senate to repeal one of the more intrusive parts of the Health Care Act. share: f t Burgess Statement to Repeal the Health Care Act’s Control Board “The future of American health care should not be left up to a panel in its role as the aloof arbiter of health care for seniors who depend on Medicare.” Washington, D.C. – With Thursday’s 223 to 181 vote from the House of Representatives sending a bill to the Senate to repeal one of the more intrusive parts of the Health Care Act, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, issued the following statement: “The Independent Payment Advisory Board encompasses all that is wrong with the Affordable Care Act. The health law contains policies that will disrupt the practice of medicine. “Along with many excesses and constrictions in the law, IPAB represents the worst of what is envisioned under the health care law. As a physician, as a Member of Congress and as a patient in my 60’s, I am offended by the Independent Payment Advisory Board. IPAB is not accountable to any constituency, and only exists to cut provider payments to fit a mathematically created ‘target.’ “IPAB would have far-reaching implications beyond Medicare for all of our nation’s doctors. IPAB throws the government into the middle of the sacred doctor - patient relationship with the power to influence prices, reimbursements and access. Beyond controlling Medicare, IPAB’s rationing edicts would serve as the benchmark for private insurance carriers’ own payment changes. Because of limitations on what the control board can cut, the majority of spending reductions would come from cuts to part B and Part D provider fees. “Doctors will become increasingly unable to provide the services that the Board has decided are not valuable. The answer is not to squeeze doctors out of providing services. The right choice is to have doctors and patients decide what the right care is for them. “The future of American health care should not be left up to a panel in its role as the aloof arbiter of health care for seniors who depend on Medicare – that is why I voted to repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board. The U.S. Senate must also vote to repeal this unaccountable and unelected control board.” ###
03.13.2012	Competition finalists, their parents, teachers and school administrators will be invited to attend a reception on Monday, April 30th, at 5:30 p.m. to view their “Best of Schools” and “Texas Choice” artwork on display at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton. Also that evening, finalists will be recognized and receive a Certificate of Special Congressional. Grand Prize, First, Second, Third Place winners will be announced as well. share: f t Burgess Announces 2012 “An Artistic Discovery” Congressional High School Art Contest Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) is pleased to announce the opening of "An Artistic Discovery," the annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Since the U.S. House of Representatives created the competition in 1982, hundreds of thousands of talented high school students have served as artistic ambassadors of their communities. The contest is open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing and/or attending schools located in the 26th Congressional District. The Greater Denton Arts Council (GDAC) selects an art educator to judge the annual competition. This year only digital image submissions of artwork will be accepted and will be due by Wednesday, March 28 at 5pm CT. Submissions must be accompanied by a School Entry Form and Student Information Release Form for each student. Any artwork submitted that does not have the required documents will not be accepted for online judging and exhibition. Each art teacher may submit up to 5 entries with no student allowed to submit more than one entry. All works must be submitted as a group through the art teacher. For more information please visit, burgess.house.gov/2012ArtCompetition. In addition, for the first time, the public will have the opportunity to vote for their favorite pieces in a virtual gallery on Dr. Burgess’ website; the artwork earning the most votes will be named the “Texas Choice” winner. Competition finalists, their parents, teachers and school administrators will be invited to attend a reception on Monday, April 30th, at 5:30 p.m. to view their “Best of Schools” and “Texas Choice” artwork on display at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton. Also that evening, finalists will be recognized and receive a Certificate of Special Congressional. Grand Prize, First, Second, Third Place winners will be announced as well. Grand Prize in the competition is the display of the winning student's artwork for an entire year in the House corridor to the U.S. Capitol. The exhibit hallway is traveled daily by members of Congress, their staff, and thousands of visitors who are able to view the artwork from Congressional districts throughout the country—each artwork is highlighted with the name of the work and student artist. The 26th District winner and a guest will be invited to Washington, D.C. in the summer to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony honoring the winning artists and opening the 2012 "An Artistic Discovery" exhibition. In addition, the competition’s First Place winner will have the opportunity to have their artwork displayed in Dr. Burgess’ Washington, DC office; Second and Third Place winners’ artwork may be displayed publicly in the Lewisville or Fort Worth district offices for the upcoming year. If you have any questions regarding the Congressional High School Art Contest or a student’s eligibility to participate, please contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, in Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville office by phone at (972) 434-9700 or email: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. To find this year’s guidelines, entry form and release form, click on the following links: · Congressional Art Contest Guidelines for Students · Congressional Art Contest School Entry Form · Congressional Art Contest Student Release Form ###
02.21.2012	Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, pressed the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) about drug shortages, specifically Doxil a chemotherapy drug, during the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health hearing, “Review of the Proposed Generic Drug and Biosimilars User Fees and Further Examination of Drug Shortages.” Today the FDA announced that they will allow a temporary importation of Lipodox, a replacement for Doxil. Upon the announcement, Dr. Burgess issued the following statement: share: f t Burgess Presses FDA on Drug Shortages, FDA Responds By Allowing Importation of Replacement Drug “This action is a step in the right direction, but it is only temporary and the FDA will need to continue to work on a long-term solution for this and other drug shortages.” Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, pressed the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) about drug shortages, specifically Doxil a chemotherapy drug, during the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health hearing, “Review of the Proposed Generic Drug and Biosimilars User Fees and Further Examination of Drug Shortages.” Today the FDA announced that they will allow a temporary importation of Lipodox, a replacement for Doxil. Upon the announcement, Dr. Burgess issued the following statement: “This action is a step in the right direction, but it is only temporary and the FDA will need to continue to work on a long-term solution for this and other drug shortages. Simply importing drugs from other countries is not a solution, but was unfortunately a necessary step in a drastic situation. Importing drugs should not become the norm, and it could be avoided by improving communication on the front end to avoid shortages. “Drug shortages happen for many reasons, and there is no silver bullet. However, when they occur, each case must be approached, dissected, and dealt with. Chemotherapy drugs are different than other drugs and you can’t just switch a patient from one chemotherapy drug to another. “I have raised this issue many times during Energy and Commerce Committee hearings. As I said in the hearing last week, when doctors don’t have essential tools they may be restricted in what they can do for patients, and that can result in a life being saved or lost. A physician never wants to tell a patient they can’t receive the care they need simply because a product is not available.” ###
02.17.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, stood with Medicare patients and their doctors in rejecting another effort by Congress to merely delay the financial decision that must be resolved for a long term solution to the Sustainable Growth Rate formula used to reimburse Medicare treatment. Dr. Burgess opposed combining three big policy pieces that each deserve individual consideration and separate votes. This legislation obscured the tough decisions about financial priorities by mixing together the physician payment, a payroll tax holiday, and extension of unemployment benefits. share: f t Burgess Votes Against More Delays and Deeper Deficit “Today’s congressional vote buys just a few months, at a terrible cost – with another temporary and uncertain non-solution.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, stood with Medicare patients and their doctors in rejecting another effort by Congress to merely delay the financial decision that must be resolved for a long term solution to the Sustainable Growth Rate formula used to reimburse Medicare treatment. Dr. Burgess opposed combining three big policy pieces that each deserve individual consideration and separate votes. This legislation obscured the tough decisions about financial priorities by mixing together the physician payment, a payroll tax holiday, and extension of unemployment benefits. “My record and my reasoning consistently support government’s commitment to ensuring patients have access to their physicians within Medicare, but not to treat this arrangement with another round of uncertainty and just another delay to the solution,” said Dr. Burgess. “I will continue to work for a positive and reliable result for Medicare patients and their physicians. Today’s congressional vote buys just a few months, at a terrible cost – with another temporary and uncertain non-solution. I am not supporting this repeated delay to a solution, but I will support the certainty that Congress knows must be in place so that doctors will have their doors open to receive Medicare patients.” Dr. Burgess cited the need for lengthening the Sustainable Growth Rate for 2 years, not the half-measure of 10 months that also lacks a needed update for the rate. He also noted the missed opportunity for Congress to correct the continued lack of support for standardizing Medicare coverage for DXA bone density scans for early identification of osteoporosis. Additionally, inserting the extensions of unemployment rates and the payroll tax holiday, said the congressman, come at the price of adding $100 billion to the deficit this year. “There are those in Congress who fail to think of the cost of the government’s borrowing authority that with this legislation’s spending speeds government along even faster than the current spending limit of $10,000 a second,” said Dr. Burgess. “The non-solution to the payroll tax for workers continues to be an unacceptable diversion of the FICA payments from going into the Social Security Trust Fund.” “Kicking the decision once again down the road and right to the edge of the calendar in the final days of the year is even more dangerous when I look at the problems that collide at one time at year’s end – expiration of the current middle income tax cuts, this Medicare physicians reimbursement, and the payroll tax cut – all with no plan to pay for it, but to spend deeper into deficit.” The conference report passed the House by 293 to 132 followed by Senate approval of 60 to 36. ###
01.24.2012	Washington, D.C. – In advance of President Obama’s State of the Union address, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement: “Tonight President Obama will make his sixth address to Congress and the American people since taking office. Today also coincidently marks the 1,000th day since the Senate has passed a budget. America is still at a crossroads and after three years of the Obama administration, people are still waiting for results. share: f t Burgess Statement on State of the Union Address “America is still at a crossroads and after three years of the Obama administration, people are still waiting for results.” Washington, D.C. – In advance of President Obama’s State of the Union address, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement: “Tonight President Obama will make his sixth address to Congress and the American people since taking office. Today also coincidently marks the 1,000th day since the Senate has passed a budget. America is still at a crossroads and after three years of the Obama administration, people are still waiting for results. “On February 2, 2009 President Obama said, “If I don’t have this done in three years, then there’s gonna be a one-term proposition.” He campaigned on the promise that he would have a legislative agenda that would put people back to work, help our economy recover, and bring people together. While there have been some signs of recovery, the policies of the Obama administration have prolonged our economic pain, failed the jobs recovery, and have pushed legislation that includes a government takeover of the health care system, over $800 billion in stimulus funding, and more government regulations. As a result, we are in a further financial crisis and have had an unemployment rate over eight-percent for thirty-four consecutive months. In addition, gas prices have doubled since he took office and our national debt is greater than the size of the economy. “President Obama and Senate Democrats have talked about putting Americans back to work, but have failed in implementing programs, or even voting on legislation, that would actually accomplish this. Just last week the Obama administration formally rejected the permit for the Keystone XL pipeline proposal that has been in the works for over three years. Even the Obama administration’s Jobs Council stated that we need to optimize all of our natural resources if we are going to compete and accelerate job creation. “The broken promises do not end with jobs. In last year’s State of the Union address, President Obama talked about the need for medical malpractice reform and said that he was eager to work with those who had ideas. As a physician, I know firsthand that we desperately need reform so the very next day I sent a letter to the president and told him I was eager and willing to work with him on this issue. A year later, I’m still waiting to hear back. While I am disappointed and feel as if part of his speech was just more rhetoric, the issue is too important and House Republicans have since taken action and are moving forward with legislation. “President Obama was elected because the American people believed that he would bring forward policies and ideas that would put us back on a path of prosperity. He and his administration have failed. I know we can do better.”
01.09.2012	Today, Dr. Burgess released his 2011 Year End Annual Report. The report showcases his 2011 legislative work and accomplishments, media communication, constituent services, and correspondence with North Texans. “It is important to show constituents the work I am doing on their behalf, and this is my report to them on the accomplishments we’ve made in 2011,” said Dr. Burgess. “My office performs a variety of services; everything from drafting legislation to helping constituents work with various federal agencies, and I want them to know that I am working hard for North Texans.” share: f t Burgess Releases 2011 Year End Annual Report “It is important to show constituents the work I am doing on their behalf, and this is my report to them on the accomplishments we’ve made in 2011.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Dr. Burgess released his 2011 Year End Annual Report. The report showcases his 2011 legislative work and accomplishments, media communication, constituent services, and correspondence with North Texans. “It is important to show constituents the work I am doing on their behalf, and this is my report to them on the accomplishments we’ve made in 2011,” said Dr. Burgess. “My office performs a variety of services; everything from drafting legislation to helping constituents work with various federal agencies, and I want them to know that I am working hard for North Texans.” Some of Dr. Burgess’ accomplishments in 2011 include: Responded to over 91,000 letters or inquiries from North Texans Cast 948 votes on the floor of the House of Representatives, 98.9% vote attendance record Participated in 74 hearings in the Energy and Commerce Committee Participated in 14 Joint Economic Committee hearings Participated in 2 Helsinki Commission hearings and chaired 1 hearing Introduced 20 bills Co-Sponsored 164 bills Attended 643 events in the district Hosted four summits Conducted 200 radio interviews and 62 TV interviews Mentioned in 2,098 newspaper articles or blogs “I have always done my best to represent the residents of the 26th District of Texas,” said Dr. Burgess. “I keep my constituents’ interest at the forefront, and will never forget that I am able to serve this great nation because of them. I take their trust in me very seriously and it is my responsibility to provide them with a report on what we’ve been able to do.” Click on the image below to review the 2011 Year End Annual Report. Constituents can download the 2011 Year End Annual Report and past reports on Dr. Burgess’ website: /YearEndReport. ###
01.09.2012	On Friday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and 97 Members of Congress sent a letter to President Obama regarding his recent recess appointments. share: f t Burgess Sends Letter to Obama Regarding Recent Appointments “This administration continues to use their executive power and bypass the legislative process.” Washington, D.C. – On Friday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and 97 Members of Congress sent a letter to President Obama regarding his recent recess appointments. “President Obama continues to use unprecedented power,” said Dr. Burgess. “While President Obama is authorized to make recess appointments under the Constitution, the Senate was not formally in recess, and his recent appointments were a stunning misuse of power and an attempt to overrule the Senate’s earlier judgment. This administration continues to over-extend its executive power to bypass the people’s representatives.” In the letter to President Obama, the Members of Congress state that the appointments, “establish a dangerous precedent that threatens the confirmation process and our system of checks and balances embedded in the Constitution.” In addition the members say that they are “committed to undoing the damage these appointments have done to our republic and expect that these appointments will be determined to be unconstitutional and invalidated by both the courts and the American people.” To view a copy of the letter that was sent click here. Text of the letter to President Obama: January 6, 2012 The Honorable Barack Obama The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500-0005 Dear Mr. President: As members of the United States House of Representatives who have taken an oath to support and defend the Constitution, we write to express our strong objection to the recent appointments of Richard Cordray as Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and three individuals to the National Labor Relations Board (NRLB). The recess appointments clause of the Constitution is an important aspect of the President’s appointment powers designed to keep the continuous operation of government during periods in which the Senate is not in session and is unable to perform its advice and consent function. In direct violation of the Constitution, these appointments were made at a time in which the Senate stood in pro forma session and was not in recess. This unprecedented and blatant attempt to diminish legislative power effectively erases the advice and consent clause from the Constitution and imperils the checks on executive power that the Founders thought necessary to prevent the emergence of a tyrant. The appointment of Mr. Cordray is especially egregious. On December 8, 2011, the Senate rejected a motion to invoke cloture on Mr. Cordray’s nomination. The recess appointment of Mr. Cordray is clearly an attempt to override the judgment of the Senate and circumvent its constitutional role. Furthermore, the CFPB is to be funded by the Federal Reserve, is insulated from congressional oversight, and can potentially affect almost every facet of American business. By preventing the Senate from engaging in an honest and open questioning of Mr. Cordray, the American people have been robbed of the last and only check on a nearly unaccountable yet extremely powerful position. These appointments establish a dangerous precedent that threatens the confirmation process and our system of checks and balances embedded in the Constitution. We stand committed to undoing the damage these appointments have done to our republic and expect that these appointments will be determined to be unconstitutional and invalidated by both the courts and the American people. ###
12.28.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, announced the thirty-two students from the 26th District of Texas who have been selected as Class of 2016 nominees to our nation’s service academies. These outstanding young men and women were nominated to attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. share: f t Burgess Announces Service Academy Nominees Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, announced the thirty-two students from the 26th District of Texas who have been selected as Class of 2016 nominees to our nation’s service academies. These outstanding young men and women were nominated to attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. “I was very impressed by the high caliber of candidates that applied to my office,” said Dr. Burgess. “The selection process was very competitive, and each of these students has a strong record of academic performance and leadership in school activities, sports, JROTC, and community and volunteer service. I proudly nominated them for admission to our nation’s service academies. If selected to attend their respective academies, I know each of these students will perform admirably, and serve honorably as officers in our country’s military services.” Nominees were selected after a rigorous application process culminating in a personal interview with Dr. Burgess’ Academy Advisory Board. A congressional nomination does not guarantee admission to one of the service academies as the academies’ respective admissions boards decide who is offered appointment, and ultimately admitted. If appointed, the nominees will enter this summer. The following candidates were nominated to the service academies. Several individuals have been nominated to multiple academies; if they receive appointment offers from more than one academy, the student will have to choose one to attend. Cody Apfel of Highland Village attends Marcus High School in Flower Mound and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Marcus Birk of Fort Worth attends Central High School in Keller and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Kim Bray of Frisco attends Frisco High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Berkley Brown of Keller attends Keller High School in Fort Worth and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Dan Carlton of Flower Mound attends Flower Mound High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Shannon Chang of Lake Dallas attends The Greenhill School in Addison and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Kyle Condry of Lewisville attends Marcus High School in Flower Mound and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. James Cooke of Flower Mound attends Lewisville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Craig Corato of Keller attends Nolan Catholic High School in Fort Worth and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Quyen Dang of Lewisville attends Marcus High School in Flower Mound and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Ben Dye of Flower Mound attends American University in Washington D.C. and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Robert Felix of Lewisville attends the U.S. Military Academy Prep School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Preston Green of Argyle attends Coram Deo Academy in Flower Mound and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Brock Hakalmazian of Fort Worth attends Timber Creek High School in Fort Worth and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Reyden Harris of Fort Worth attends Timber Creek High School in Fort Worth and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Nicholas Hernandez-Sepper of Frisco attends Wakeland High School in Frisco and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Aaron Horikami of Flower Mound attends Flower Mound High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Jin Joo of North Richland Hills attends Fort Worth Christian High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Tim Mask of Frisco attends Legacy Christian Academy in Frisco and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Andrew McNair of Argyle is homeschooled and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Michael Nathman of Fort Worth attends The Oakridge School in Arlington and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Simon Park of Flower Mound attends the Marion Military Institute and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Morgan Pettyjohn of Keller attends Carroll Senior High School in Southlake and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Alex Preisser of Keller attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Military Academy. Joshua Raines of North Richland Hills attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Ryan Reaves of Keller attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. James Tran of Frisco attends John Paul II High School in Plano and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Leah Weber of Flower Mound is homeschooled and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Hayden Whitt of Keller attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. James Wood of North Richland Hills attends Grapevine High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Connor Yancy of Keller attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Conner Zimmerman of Frisco attends Wakeland High School in Frisco and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Additional information regarding the academy nomination and application process may be obtained on Dr. Burgess’ website at http://burgess.house.gov or by contacting Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, in the Lewisville district office at (972) 434-9700. ###
12.21.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, announced the members of his 2011 Service Academy Advisory Board. The thirteen-member board met recently to advise him upon the selection of qualified service academy candidates. share: f t Burgess Names Service Academy Board Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, announced the members of his 2011 Service Academy Advisory Board. The thirteen-member board met recently to advise him upon the selection of qualified service academy candidates. The board’s purpose is to comprehensively screen and interview high school and college applicants wishing to receive a congressional nomination; the board then makes recommendations to Dr. Burgess for final review and nominations are submitted to the individual service academies (U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO, and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY) for appointment consideration. “One of the privileges I have serving in the U.S. House of Representatives is the opportunity to nominate outstanding young people from the 26th District to our nation’s service academies,” Dr. Burgess said. “We have a stellar group of former military, education and community leaders serving on the Advisory Board. In this tumultuous time in our nation’s history, many young people in our area have expressed their interest in serving their country by attending one of our nation’s service academies. After a rigorous selection process, I was grateful to receive excellent recommendations from this outstanding board.” Retired Air Force Lt. General Charles R. Hamm serves as Chairman of the Board. Dr. Burgess noted, “General Hamm’s highly regarded service as the former Superintendent of the U.S. Air Force Academy enables him to capably lead the board.” “I know how serious Congressman Burgess takes his responsibility to nominate highly qualified young people to the academies and working with this distinguished board, I believe we were able to recommend the right people to him for consideration,” said General Hamm. The members of the 26th Congressional District Service Academy Advisory Board are as follows: LtGen Charles R. Hamm, USAF (Ret.), Chair Former Superintendent of USAFA TX-26 Congressional Veteran Commendation, 2005 National War College, 1972 Air Command and Staff College, 1969 M.S., Auburn University, 1969 B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1956 Mrs. Elaine Emery of Lewisville Community Volunteer: Medical Center of Lewisville Board of Trustees Childrens Advocacy Center for Denton Co. Advisory Board Christian Community Action Adult Health Center Advisory Board B.S., University of Oklahoma, 1968 LCDR William L. Hagan III, U.S. Navy, of Flower Mound (currently Honolulu, HI) Pacific Region Diving & Salvage Officer, Energy Manager Engineering Duty Officer; Naval Aviator (Pilot) Naval Engineer's degree, Masters in Mechanical Engineering, and Masters in Systems Design and Management, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 2008 B.S., U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY, 1999 LtCol Paul Gosnell, USMCR, (Ret.) of Frisco First Officer, American Airlines Arts Center of North Texas Board of Directors Officer-in-Charge, Marine Transport Detachment Belle Chasse, 4th Marine Aircraft Wing Operations Officer & Platoon Commander, 4th Air Naval Gunfire Liaison Company AV-8B Harrier Pilot, Marine Attack Squadron 214/Marine Aircraft Group 13 Air Officer/Forward Air Controller, 3rd Light Armored Reconnaissance Battalion B.S., U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD, 1987 COL Marc Hildenbrand, U.S. Army (Ret.) of Denton Chief Operating Officer, Enoetics Former Vice President of Infrastructure Development, Hillwood International Energy Commanding Officer, 937th Engineer Group (Combat), 3rd Infantry Division, Operation Enduring Freedom-Iraq Executive Officer to Commanding General, Army Corps of Engineers Senior Military Aide Secretary of the Army MMAS, U.S. Army Command and General Staff College, 1992 M.S., Arizona State University, 1987 B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1979 Col Charles Jackson, USAF (Ret.), of Denton Assistant Vice President for Facilities, University of North Texas Commander, 7th Civil Engineering Squadron, Carswell AFB, Ft. Worth 5th Air Force Civil Engineer, Yokota Air Base, Japan Deputy Civil Engineer, HQ Air Force Space Command, Peterson AFB, Colorado M.S., Air Force Institute of Technology, 1974 B.S., U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO, 1968 Dr. Peter Lane, Col., USAF (Ret.) of Denton Visiting Lecturer-Retired, Department of History, University of North Texas M.A., 1969 & Ph.D., 1972, University of Washington-Seattle B.S., U.S. Air Force Academy, 1961 LCDR Dave Loomis, USNR, (Ret.), of Denton Consultant – Dave Loomis Copywriting Retired, International Marine Transportation Oil and Chemical Tanker Charterer; Manager International Marine Center, Chevron Shipping Company – Houston Board of Directors, American Waterways Operators Regional Manager, Chevron International Oil Company – London, Houston Business Manager – Chevron International Oil Company – San Francisco Sales Engineer, Gulf Oil Trading Co. - New Orleans and Houston Surveyor, American Bureau of Shipping – New Orleans Asst. VP Operations Delta Steamship Lines – New Orleans MBA, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, 2005 B.S., U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY, 1971 Captain Kevin R. Purnell, USAFR of Lantana Sr. Associate - Management Consulting, KPMG LLP U.S. Air Force Academy Liaison Officer Communications Officer, 56th Communications Squadron, Luke AFB, Arizona MBA, WP Carey School of Business, Arizona State University, 2007 B.S., U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO, 2004 Maj Gen Mary Saunders, USAF (Ret.) of Denton Executive Director, Leadership Institute, Texas Woman's University Former Vice Director, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), Fort Belvoir, VA 34 years of service, USAF Former Director of Supply, U.S. Air Force/Pentagon Graduate, Air War College, Maxwell Air Force Base, AL M.A., Rider University, Lawrenceville, NJ B.S., Texas Woman's University, 1970 CAPT Peter Stamps, USNR (Ret.) of Fort Worth Quality Assurance Manager, North America, Hanson Pressure Pipe, Inc. Officer-in-Charge, Joint Force Maritime Component, NR Commander US 7th Fleet Commanding Officer, NR Destroyer Squadron 24 Former Academy Board Member, U.S. Senator Rod Grams (MN) MBA, University of Phoenix, 1999 Graduate, Naval War College, Newport, RI BSME, U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD, 1985 Mr. Richard Walker of North Richland Hills Finance Manager, Customer Support and Services, Bell Helicopter Past State Vice President, Air Force Association B.S., Oklahoma State University, 1982 Maj Jae Yu, USAFR (Ret.), of Flower Mound Captain, Southwest Airlines Officer, Southwest Airlines Pilots Assn. Deputy Director, USAFA Admissions Liaison Officer Operations Officer & C-130 Pilot, 137th OK Air National Guard C-12 Evaluator, Instructor, Standard and Evaluation Pilot, 7th AF Commander Executive/Aide-de-Camp to Commander, Republic of Korea Air Force Ops Command T-37 Instructor Pilot, Academic Instructor, Wing Staff, Vance AFB, OK B.S., U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO, 1989 Labor Arbitration, National Labor College, George Meany Center, MD, 2002 Negotiations and Mediation, Pepperdine School of Law, CA, 2007 ***To download a photo of Dr. Burgess with the Service Academy Board click here. Pictured are (L-R standing) Dave Loomis, Jae Yu, Mary Saunders, Charlie Jackson, Peter Lane, Will Hagan, Paul Gosnell, Peter Stamps, Marc Hildenbrand, Kevin Purnell, Rich Walker; (L-R seated) Charlie Hamm, Congressman Michael Burgess, Elaine Emery*** ###
12.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement on the Motion to Concur in the Senate Amendment to H.R. 3630, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011. share: f t Vacation Can Wait, The American People Can’t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement on the Motion to Concur in the Senate Amendment to H.R. 3630, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011. “Last week the House passed legislation that included two years of relief from erroneous Medicare cuts. In addition, it included tax relief for one year, as well as ideas from President Obama, bipartisan ideas, and Republican ideas. Today, we will be voting on legislation that would only extend these measures for two months. A two month patch is not what will give families, employers, doctors, and the American people the long-term stability our country needs. America needs jobs and long-term solutions. I am committed to staying in Washington until the job is done and I encourage the Senate to do the same.” ###
12.13.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after voting in favor of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, H.R. 3630. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 234 to 193. share: f t Burgess Statement on the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after voting in favor of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, H.R. 3630. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 234 to 193. “Today the House passed another jobs bill, marking the twenty-eighth jobs bill the House has passed that is awaiting Senate action. The American people can’t wait when it comes to jobs, and the House will not sit idle. “This bill includes important measures that will help create private sector jobs, helping put America back on a path of prosperity. It also includes a provision that will bring relief for doctors and prevent a dramatic reduction in payments to doctors who see Medicare patients. In addition, it would require that President Obama make a final determination on the permit for the Keystone XL pipeline, which will create more than twenty-thousand jobs, many of which will be in Texas. “The bottom line is America needs jobs. Instead of continuing to prohibit job creation, the Senate needs to take action and pass this bill. America deserves better.” ###
12.06.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) launched his new website, burgess.house.gov. “This one-stop-shop will provide information on what is happening in Congress, how my office can assist constituents, ways to contact me, and will provide the latest information on how legislation will affect North Texas,” said Dr. Burgess. “I encourage constituents to visit the new website and check back often as information will be updated regularly. This new website, in conjunction with the social media sites, will provide constituents with the most up-to-date information and resources.” share: f t Burgess Launches New Website Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) launched his new website, burgess.house.gov. “This one-stop-shop will provide information on what is happening in Congress, how my office can assist constituents, ways to contact me, and will provide the latest information on how legislation will affect North Texas,” said Dr. Burgess. “I encourage constituents to visit the new website and check back often as information will be updated regularly. This new website, in conjunction with the social media sites, will provide constituents with the most up-to-date information and resources.” On Dr. Burgess’ new website constituents will find: Legislative Issues: Learn what's going on in Washington and how it will affect North Texas. Get information on legislative issues like defense, national security, health care, education, and veterans. These sections also have links to helpful resources. Click here to learn more. The Many Ways Dr. Burgess Can Provide Assistance: Whether constituents need help with an issue they are having with a federal agency, would like to have a flag flown over the Capitol, would like to request a White House or Capitol tour, or would like to apply to a service academy, this page is dedicated to the ways Dr. Burgess can assist. Click here for more information. Latest News and Media: Get the latest videos, press releases, floor statements, photos, and committee statements. Dr. Burgess also just launched a blog that will provide additional information and resources about legislation. Click here to view the media section. How Congress Works: From the rules of the House to committee hearings to bills becoming law, this section provides information and resources that will help constituents navigate the legislative process. Click here to be directed to this section of the website. Resources for Young People: Whether a young person is interested in interning or wants to find information about the United States government, Dr. Burgess’ new website has resources for both. There is also a section with resources for parents and teachers. Click here to view the resources available for young people. Ways to Contact Dr. Burgess: It is a chief priority that constituents are able to send Dr. Burgess opinions, ideas, suggestions, and comments regarding the issues they find most important. Click here to find the various ways to contact Dr. Burgess. In addition to Dr. Burgess’ new website, constituents can stay connected with Dr. Burgess by signing up for his weekly email updates, liking him on Facebook, following him on Twitter, and connecting with him on You Tube. ###
11.21.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction: share: f t Burgess Statement on the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction: “At a time when Washington should be working to solve problems we are, yet again, at another road block,” said Dr. Burgess. “The Select Committee was tasked with finding $1.2 trillion in cuts and came-up empty handed. Washington needs to quit pointing fingers and get work done if we expect America to get back on a path to prosperity. American families are making cuts at home and Washington must do the same. Families do not have the luxury to miss their bill deadlines, and neither should Washington.” ###
11.14.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s announcement to review the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: “Today, the Supreme Court announced their plans to take up a judicial review of the president’s health care law, the Patient and Protection Affordable Care Act, that was signed into law last March. The justices will consider if the federal government has exceeded its authority by requiring that every American obtain health insurance by 2014. share: f t Burgess Statement on Supreme Court Announcement to Decide Constitutionality of Health Care Law Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s announcement to review the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: “Today, the Supreme Court announced their plans to take up a judicial review of the president’s health care law, the Patient and Protection Affordable Care Act, that was signed into law last March. The justices will consider if the federal government has exceeded its authority by requiring that every American obtain health insurance by 2014. “The American people made it very clear – give us reform that will address the problems, and leave what is working alone. What the American people did not want was a 2,409 page bill that shatters a system working for almost two-thirds of the American people. “What Congress should have done was tackle the one-third of Americans who needed help. We could have addressed and accomplished reform in stand-alone bills, and at a much lower cost. We have seen that the new health care law is not what the American people want and I am encouraged that the law will now be heard by the court and hopeful that they will overturn this government overreach.” ###
11.10.2011	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) recognized the five veterans who received this year’s 26th District Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC was created seven years ago to honor the distinguished living veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. Nominations were received from the community, veterans’ organizations and civic groups. share: f t Congressman Burgess Honors Local Veterans Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) recognized the five veterans who received this year’s 26th District Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC was created seven years ago to honor the distinguished living veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. Nominations were received from the community, veterans’ organizations and civic groups. This year’s commendations were presented at the ninth annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association and the City of Highland Village. The five recipients of this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation are: Gary Alexander (Corporal - Marines) of Gainesville Julius Fambry (1st Sergeant - Army) of The Colony Donald Langa (Lieutenant Commander - Navy) of Denton Joe M. Leonard, Jr. (Captain - Army) of Gainesville Leroy M. Williamson, Sr. (1st Lieutenant - Army/Air Force) of Denton “Five extraordinary individuals were selected to receive the 2011 Congressional Veteran Commendation,” said Dr. Burgess. “They served in the Armed Forces of the United States with distinction and continued their dedication to the nation by striving tirelessly on behalf of their fellow veterans and serving the people in their communities.” “While we have singled out these veterans for recognition, I want to extend my deepest appreciation to all veterans for your service to the United States of America,” Dr. Burgess remarked to the approximate 300 luncheon attendees. “On behalf of the citizens of the 26th District and of a grateful nation, we are forever in your debt.” ***To download a photo of Dr. Burgess with Congressional Veteran Commendation recipients click here. Pictured are (L-R): Gary Alexander, Julius Fambry, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., Donald Langa, Joe Leonard, Leroy Williamson*** ###
11.10.2011	Washington, D.C. – Tomorrow, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will release the following video statement in recognition of Veterans Day. Click on the image below to watch the video. A transcript of the video can also be found below. share: f t Burgess Statement in Recognition of Veterans Day Washington, D.C. – Tomorrow, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will release the following video statement in recognition of Veterans Day. Click on the image below to watch the video. A transcript of the video can also be found below. Transcript of Video: “Hello this is your Congressman Michael Burgess. While tens of thousands of brave men and women continue to fight for and defend our freedoms, today we pause to remember the sacrifices made by our veterans. Our nation is truly blessed to have had such fine men and women answer the call to duty. We owe a tremendous debt to all of those who have worn the uniform and fought to defend our freedom, and have allowed us to live in the best country. There is no greater selfless act than to fight for one’s own country. The freedoms we have we owe to our veterans. “Our nation’s veterans are men and women of outstanding character, embodying the spirit of dedication and patriotism. In Texas, we have almost 1.7 million veterans living in the state. Today, I join the residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District, and all Americans, in thanking our veterans for their service to the United States of America, and honoring their devotion to God and country. Thank you for your service. “Thank you for taking the time to listen. God bless you and your family, God bless our Texas veterans, and as always, God bless Texas.” ###
11.07.2011	Washington, D.C. – As Veterans Day approaches, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, is proud to introduce H.R. 3290, the Veterans Health Care Stamp Act, to provide additional funding for veteran health care services. share: f t Burgess Stamp Bill Would Raise Additional Funds for Veterans Health Care Services Washington, D.C. – As Veterans Day approaches, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, is proud to introduce H.R. 3290, the Veterans Health Care Stamp Act, to provide additional funding for veteran health care services. “The Veterans Health Care Stamp Act will provide the American public with an individual opportunity to help care for our men and women who have served their country honorably through military service,” Dr. Burgess said. “With this legislation, we can join together to give back to those who have given so much.” Under the bipartisan act, the optional first-class stamp will be available for a slightly higher cost than the first-class rate. The additional funds raised through the purchase of this stamp would be sent to a program within the Department of Veterans Affairs dedicated to increasing veteran’s access to health care. The legislation is supported by the American Red Cross and the Non Commissioned Officers Association of the United States of America. “The Veterans Health Care Stamp Act is built upon the notion that Americans are a patriotic and proud group that, when given the opportunity, will support the health of our nation’s veterans,” said Dr. Burgess. “This bill gives each American the opportunity to directly support America’s bravest men and women.” ###
10.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced two health care bills that will foster innovation and lead to job creation and growth. The Cultivating Scientific Expertise to Foster Innovation for Patients Act, H.R. 3206, and the Modernizing Laboratory Test Standards for Patients Act, H.R. 3207, are aimed at loosening excessive regulations on American manufactures and laboratories. The Energy and Commerce Committee prepared this memo summarizing the committee’s findings and the ten legislative solutions, two of which are the bills Dr. Burgess introduced. share: f t Burgess Introduces Health Care Legislation that will Protect Jobs and Foster Innovation for Patients Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced two health care bills that will foster innovation and lead to job creation and growth. The Cultivating Scientific Expertise to Foster Innovation for Patients Act, H.R. 3206, and the Modernizing Laboratory Test Standards for Patients Act, H.R. 3207, are aimed at loosening excessive regulations on American manufactures and laboratories. The Energy and Commerce Committee prepared this memo summarizing the committee’s findings and the ten legislative solutions, two of which are the bills Dr. Burgess introduced. The Cultivating Scientific Expertise to Foster Innovation for Patients Act, H.R. 3206 "We have the technology to save and improve lives, but the restrictions that currently exist prohibit these medical innovations from reaching doctors and patients because of the current state of the FDA,” said Dr. Burgess. We need to improve the FDA process for the products they do regulate and that is why we need to ensure the most qualified experts are available to the agency. In the important task of evaluating products that can improve the health of American patients, we want the best of the best. Setting arbitrary waiver limits not only clogs the already overwhelmed FDA process, but encourages membership by lesser qualified individuals. In the arena of life-altering medical treatments, this is unacceptable. Long delays due to vacancies and panels with lesser qualified members put lives unnecessarily at risk. The Modernizing Laboratory Test Standards for Patients Act, H.R. 3207 “It is important that we relieve restrictions while providing regulatory reform that positively impacts and protects patients while promoting job growth,” said Dr. Burgess. Adding additional and duplicative FDA regulations to industries that are not under the agency’s jurisdiction will further burden an overstretched institution that cannot currently process their substantial backlog due to their own regulations being a hindrance. The Modernizing Laboratory Test Standards for Patients Act will provide clear regulatory certainty, foster innovation, save American jobs, and ensure patients have access to the breakthrough medical products of tomorrow. The Modernizing Laboratory Test Standards for Patients Act has already been well received: "On behalf of Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings ("LabCorp") and its 31,000 employees nationwide--including almost 2,500 here in Texas--I would like to thank Congressman Burgess for his leadership in authoring legislation to provide a CLIA-based approach to the oversight of laboratory developed tests. The clinical laboratory testing industry is one of the most versatile and sophisticated functions of the health care system, making advances everyday to improve patient outcomes and eliminate unnecessary and ineffective care. We at LabCorp strongly support his bill, which would modernize and strengthen the existing CLIA program, providing greater protections for patients, without slowing down innovation in our laboratory right here in Dallas and hundreds of others nationwide. We look forward to working with Congressman Burgess in the coming months to help enact this important legislation." --Bob Nelson, Senior Vice President of Operations, Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings "Representative Burgess, on behalf of Quest Diagnostics and our over 860 employees at our Irving, Texas, laboratory, we thank your for your leadership and stewardship of patients' access to quality, affordable health care by your introducing legislation for a CLIA-centric approach to the oversight of laboratory developed tests, which are at the forefront of medical breakthroughs. We offer you our full support for this important effort, which will benefit hundreds of thousands if not millions of patients nationwide and allow clinical laboratories to continue to develop new tests to improve patient health as well as enable economic growth." --Michael Peat, Ph.D., Managing Director, Texas Gulf Coast Business Unit Alan Mertz, President of ACLA said, “This bill reflects the need for government regulation to keep pace with the advancements in science that will move our health care delivery system to one focused on what is best for the patient, public health, and the economy. In particular, we note the legislation’s effectiveness in reaching these goals by strengthening the current regulatory structure and eliminating duplicative regulation; enhancing public transparency for patients, providers and regulatory agencies; and strengthening reporting for adverse events—all without additional government expenditures.” ###
10.13.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will bring together local, state, and federal representatives, area stakeholders, and the public at-large for the 7th Annual East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit on Friday, October 21, 2011. share: f t Burgess’ 7th Annual Economic Development Summit Aims To Boost Growth in East and Southeast Fort Worth Washington, D.C. - Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will bring together local, state, and federal representatives, area stakeholders, and the public at-large for the 7th Annual East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit on Friday, October 21, 2011. The annual event highlights areas where the community can spur economic growth, serves as a facilitating mechanism for interested parties to discuss available resources, showcases current and potential projects, identifies potential funding opportunities, and highlights the needs of the community. “This area of the district faces many challenges with regards to spurring economic growth and sustaining that growth, and the communities’ needs are substantial,” Dr. Burgess said. “I’ve hosted this event every year since 2005 with the goal of bringing together stakeholders and to facilitate partnerships and revitalization efforts to overcome the obstacles East and Southeast Fort Worth faces. The short-term goal is to recognize ways growth can be spurred, and the long-term goal is to ensure that the projects and improvements are sustainable, which is a key component to success.” Registration will begin at 7:30 a.m. with the event beginning at 8 a.m. The keynote speaker for the event is Richard Fisher, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 7th Annual East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit Friday, October 21, 2011 8 am to 1 pm *registration begins at 7:30 am Texas Wesleyan University Lou’s Place Pavilion 1112 Wesleyan Street Fort Worth, TX 76105 Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Richard Fisher, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Experts from local, state and federal organizations Constituents wanting more information regarding the 7th Annual East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit can visit /EconomicDevelopment. To RSVP for the summit constituents can send an email to TX26RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (817) 531-8454. ###
10.03.2011	Washington, D.C. – The Washington Times has published an op-ed by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), discussing how the Select Committee needs to puts the health care law on the table as they are with other entitlement programs. Dr. Burgess is the Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus. You can view the op-ed below. To read it online click here. share: f t Burgess: Select Committee Needs to Put PPACA on the Table “The select committee will be looking to strengthen existing entitlement programs and improve Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security for future generations. If these existing entitlements are on the table, shouldn’t the new ones created by the Affordable Care Act be as well?” Washington, D.C. – The Washington Times has published an op-ed by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26),discussing how the Select Committee needs to puts the health care law on the table as they are with other entitlement programs. Dr. Burgess is the Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus. You can view the op-ed below. To read it online click here. BURGESS: Supercommittee needs to put Obamacare on table By Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. The easiest money to save is that you have not yet spent. So, why not start reducing the deficit by eliminating the Washington spending that is slated to begin in the future but that we can no longer afford? Seems like common sense. In fact, the Joint Select Committee on Budget Reduction could easily achieve nearly its entire target of reducing the nation’s deficit by $1.5 trillion and, most surprisingly, almost every dollar would come from benefits that do not yet exist. Sound too good to be true? It’s actually very possible. Consider this: Two of the largest and costliest provisions in the new health care law create unprecedented government mandates, costing a combined total of nearly $1.5 trillion. These new mandates give the federal government far too much control over - and taxpayers far too much responsibility for financing - millions of Americans’ health care. Given our deteriorating debt situation over the past year, it’s clearer than ever: We can’t afford this new spending. So why not start there? President Obama, however, made his priorities clear during the most recent debt negotiations. Rather than agreeing to roll back some of his irresponsible spending policies, he chose to pretend nothing had changed with our debt conditions. Washington often forgets that balancing a budget is not that different from managing personal finances. As with any family or small business, America cannot simply write blank checks thinking we possess unlimited overdraft protection. Reviewing our recent spending commitments and discussing where we went off-track is an obvious next step. Few Americans recognize that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was the largest expansion of Medicaid in history. What was intended to be a safety-net program has morphed into a one-size-fits-all program. Under the expansion, a couple with as much as $64,000 a year in income as early retirees - well above the median American household income of slightly more than $50,000 a year - could qualify for Medicaid. The Medicaid expansion alone will cost American taxpayers nearly $630 billion by 2021, and the program doesn’t even take effect for two more years. Being forced to enter Medicaid or pay additional taxes becomes no real choice and is an affront to personal liberty. But here’s what’s even more amazing in our challenging fiscal environment. The president’s health care law creates another new entitlement program made up of subsidies to pay for a portion of millions of Americans’ premiums in the new exchanges, costing American taxpayers an additional $777 billion. Health care coverage should be affordable, and it is our goal to reform the nation’s health care system so that every American has the ability to purchase affordable health insurance. But increasing taxpayer spending as costs continue to rise does not achieve that goal. The subsidies provided in the Affordable Care Act are irresponsible given today’s budget realities and simply grow the government’s grip on the middle class without doing anything to reduce health care costs. We cannot afford to spend nearly $1.5 trillion on a program that has yet to take effect with money we do not have. These new programs will subsidize American households making as much as $90,000 a year. Maybe it’s time to cancel these new purchases before they are delivered. The select committee will be looking to strengthen existing entitlement programs and improve Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security for future generations. If these existing entitlements are on the table, shouldn’t the new ones created by the Affordable Care Act be as well? We have a choice moving forward. We can make the select committee negotiations as painful as the last round, or we can, like every American family, have a logical discussion about cutting back on spending we simply cannot afford. Democrats are quick to criticize Republicans for standing on principle against tax increases that would harm our fragile economic recovery. It’s ironic that they relentlessly criticize Republicans for taking damaging tax increases off the table when they themselves refuse even to discuss trimming back on a new law in which we will pay more to get less and that our nation simply cannot afford. As the select committee gets to work, I encourage both parties to put the Affordable Care Act on the table alongside the other entitlements in need of reform. Failure to stop this spending boondoggle could imperil the benefits on which millions of Americans already depend. ###
09.29.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX – 26) released the following statement after the Department of Justice filed a petition asking the Supreme Court to uphold the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and most specifically the individual mandate: share: f t Burgess Statement on the Health Care Law Going to the Supreme Court Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX – 26) released the following statement after the Department of Justice filed a petition asking the Supreme Court to uphold the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and most specifically the individual mandate: “In this time of economic uncertainly, I am encouraged that the pending litigation regarding the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is getting a chance to soon be reviewed by the Supreme Court,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. who is the Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus. “Businesses and individuals need direction regarding this law. The questions regarding the Constitutionality of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act have created uncertainty which in turn stifles job creation and future economic growth. I hope the Supreme Court will work swiftly to alleviate the unnecessary burden that this law has cast upon the American people.” ###
09.23.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) worked directly with Speaker Boehner to have language included in the Continuing Resolution that would rescind $100 million from the Department of Energy program infamously known for giving $535 million to the now-bankrupt solar company Solyndra. The bill passed the House by a vote of 219-203. share: f t Burgess Secures $100 Million in Solyndra Scandal Funding “Dr. Burgess has been the leader in the Solyndra fight and is responsible for $100 million of taxpayer dollars being rescinded.” - Speaker Boehner Washington, D.C. – Last night, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) worked directly with Speaker Boehner to have language included in the Continuing Resolution that would rescind $100 million from the Department of Energy program infamously known for giving $535 million to the now-bankrupt solar company Solyndra. The bill passed the House by a vote of 219-203. “While the Obama administration has refused to hold Solyndra accountable, and even blocked information, getting this money back is an important step in ensuring no further taxpayer money is unwisely used away,” said Dr. Burgess. “The Continuing Resolution is a better bill today because we are preventing further money from going to risky companies, and I am still working to get more of the American taxpayer’s money back. This fight is far from over, and I will continue to work until we have seized every dollar we can back.” Despite repeated warnings about the speculative nature of the project, the Obama administration pushed forward at break-neck speed, and Solyndra was the first company to receive a loan guarantee using stimulus dollars. Six months after the Department of Energy restructured Solyndra’s loan guarantee in February 2011, the company declared bankruptcy. Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) and Dr. Burgess met last night regarding including language in the Continuing Resolution. “Dr. Burgess has been the leader in the Solyndra fight and is responsible for $100 million of taxpayer dollars being rescinded,” said Speaker Boehner. “Dr. Burgess also introduced the resolution authorizing Chairman Upton to issue the subpoena to the White House’s Office of Management and Budget. Dr. Burgess has been at the forefront of this ongoing investigation, and will continue to lead and expose the waste and involvement of the Obama administration, and I will continue to support these efforts until every dollar possible is returned to the American people.” The Continuing Resolution will now be sent to the Senate for debate and a vote. ###
09.21.2011	Washington, D.C. – Last night, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R–Texas) and Congressman Ron Kind (D–Wisconsin) introduced the Immunosuppressive Drug Coverage for Kidney Transplant Patients Act. This legislation, H.R. 2969 will allow individuals who are eligible for immunosuppressive drugs under Medicare Part B to continue to receive their vital treatment past the 36-month cutoff. Without these drugs, transplant recipients are at risk to lose their transplanted kidneys – which too often happens. share: f t Burgess, Kind Introduce Legislation to Protect Kidney Transplant Recipients Washington, D.C. – Last night, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R–Texas) and Congressman Ron Kind (D–Wisconsin) introduced the Immunosuppressive Drug Coverage for Kidney Transplant Patients Act. This legislation, H.R. 2969 will allow individuals who are eligible for immunosuppressive drugs under Medicare Part B to continue to receive their vital treatment past the 36-month cutoff. Without these drugs, transplant recipients are at risk to lose their transplanted kidneys – which too often happens. “Although now more mainstream than heroic, renal transplantation offers end stage renal disease patients an alternative to a lifetime of dialysis,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. who is the Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus. “How incredibly cruel then, that the gravest threat to their newly acquired kidney is an incoherent federal policy that denies coverage for anti-rejection drugs after 36 months and a costlier return to patients and the Medicare system to dialysis.” Since 1972, Medicare has covered people with irreversible kidney failure, or end-stage renal disease (ESRD). There is no Medicare time limit for a dialysis patient. However, kidney transplant recipients lose their Medicare coverage 36 months after a transplant. Extending immunosuppressive coverage beyond the 36-month limit would decrease the risk of organ failure due to patients neglecting to take the immunosuppressants following loss of immunosuppressive coverage. Furthermore, transplant recipients have a higher quality of life, and are more likely to return to work than dialysis patients. “Health care costs are the fasting growing area of spending in the national budget,” said Rep. Kind. “We should be doing everything we can to improve patient care while getting these costs under control and this legislation is a great step in the right direction. Providing kidney transplant patients access to the medication to ensure the success of their transplant helps keep health care costs down – by decreasing the need for further dialysis and the likelihood of a re-transplant - and the quality of life up – so that patients won’t have to worry about how they will pay for the medicine to maintain their health.” "On behalf of the American Society of Transplantation (AST), representing the majority of professionals engaged in the field of organ transplantation, I strongly applaud Congressmen Burgess (R-TX) and Kind (D-WI) for their leadership in introducing the ‘Comprehensive Immunosuppressive Drug Coverage for Kidney Transplant Patients Act of 2011’," said Dr. Bob Gaston, President of the American Society of Transplantation (AST). “This bipartisan and bicameral legislation will ensure that kidney recipients are able to maintain their life-saving donor organ. This is a common sense approach that will save both lives and federal funds by preventing organ rejection, re-transplantation and more costly therapies already covered under Medicare. The transplant community and the patient population that it serves are extremely grateful to Congressmen Burgess and Kind for their steadfast commitment to this issue and the lives that will be saved as the consequence of their efforts." "The National Kidney Foundation commends Representatives Burgess and Kind for their leadership on this critically important legislation. This bill, coupled with the companion legislation by Senators Durbin and Cochran, will ensure that thousands of Americans can keep their transplants, allow thousands more to be transplanted, and reduce the need for re-transplants of people who can no longer pay for vital medication and who end up back on dialysis and the transplant waiting list. This legislation is a major first step towards achieving the goal of the National Kidney Foundations END THE WAIT! initiative to find solutions to the organ shortage and eliminate the all-too-long wait for a transplant," said Lynda Szczech, MD, National Kidney Foundation President. U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D–Illinois), Thad Cochran (R–Mississippi) and Scott Brown (R–Massachusetts) have introduced companion legislation in their respective chambers. ###
09.09.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement regarding the 10th anniversary of September 11th. “Our country was deeply wounded ten years ago. For many that wound has not fully healed, and for some it never will. We must never forget, though, the way Americans came together in the days and weeks following the attacks, and presented a united front against evil and hate. share: f t Burgess Statement on 10th Anniversary of September 11th Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement regarding the 10th anniversary of September 11th. “Our country was deeply wounded ten years ago. For many that wound has not fully healed, and for some it never will. We must never forget, though, the way Americans came together in the days and weeks following the attacks, and presented a united front against evil and hate. “September 11th showed some of the very worst in human nature, but because of the actions of the firefighters, first responders, and people who just wanted to help, it also showed some of the greatest displays of courage, valor, and self sacrifice. The images from that day will stay with us forever. “Some may feel sadness, others anger, but as we reflect on the anniversary of September 11th, we should all feel pride for our country’s efforts since that day, which have paved the way across the globe for democracy and freedom for those who otherwise would have never known the blessings of liberty. We honor and remember the thousands of lives that were lost, and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
09.08.2011	Washington, D.C. – In advance of President Obama’s speech tonight during the Joint Session, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement. “For the fifth time since taking office, President Obama will come to Capitol Hill and speak to Congress and the American people. While I welcome the president’s participation in a dialogue, I hope that his speech will not be the same rhetoric without action. For the past two-and-a-half years, the Obama administration has pushed a legislative agenda that included failed short-term stimulus measures, higher taxes, increased regulations, and a government overhaul of the health care system. All resulting in higher unemployment and an economy that struggles to recover. We can do better. share: f t Burgess: “We can do better.” Washington, D.C. – In advance of President Obama’s speech tonight during the Joint Session, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement. “For the fifth time since taking office, President Obama will come to Capitol Hill and speak to Congress and the American people. While I welcome the president’s participation in a dialogue, I hope that his speech will not be the same rhetoric without action. For the past two-and-a-half years, the Obama administration has pushed a legislative agenda that included failed short-term stimulus measures, higher taxes, increased regulations, and a government overhaul of the health care system. All resulting in higher unemployment and an economy that struggles to recover. We can do better. “The Republican-led House has passed more than a dozen pro-growth bills this year that address the job crisis and would put people back to work. Unfortunately, all but one of these measures have been stalled in the Democrat-controlled Senate. During the August district work period I held several town hall meetings and met with constituents and businesses across my district. The message that I heard over and over is that the out-of-control spending, new taxes, and increased regulations have stalled private sector job creation. “I hope President Obama will seize this opportunity to reject the policies that have put America in a position that threatens the very fabric of our republic. We need get the government out of the way, allowing job creators to put people back to work. The American people have been waiting over two years for delivery on the president’s promises to address the jobs crisis, yet I fear we will hear only more of the same. We can do better, and the country deserves better.” ###
08.25.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in Keller. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as unemployment, taxes, and the debt ceiling are expected to be discussed. share: f t Burgess To Hold Keller Town Hall Meeting Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in Keller. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as unemployment, taxes, and the debt ceiling are expected to be discussed. Keller Town Hall Meeting Tuesday, August 30, 2011 7 pm to 8 pm Keller High School Cafeteria 601 North Pate Orr Road Keller, Texas For constituents unable to attend the meeting in person, the town hall is scheduled for live broadcast on Dr. Burgess’ website. For more information on the town hall meeting visit burgess.house.gov/TownHall. *Persons requiring special accommodations should contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled meeting at 972-434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
08.23.2011	Burgess comments on office operations after earthquake. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement after an earthquake impacted Virginia and surrounding states today. "Today the Washington DC area felt the effects of an almost 6.0 magnitude earthquake in Virginia. Everyone in my Washington office made it out of the building safely and without injury. My Washington staff has been sent home until confirmation can be made that the buildings are structurally safe. My Lewisville and Fort Worth offices will operate under their normal business hours. Preliminary reports indicate no injuries in the Capitol Hill area. My office will continue to monitor the situation as it develops.” ###
08.18.2011	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns (R-FL) and Health Subcommittee Vice Chair Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today released the following statement after an Obama-appointed judge ruled that the White House visitor logs are subject to Freedom of Information Act requests. share: f t Committee Leaders Applaud Court Decision that White House Must Increase Transparency WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns (R-FL) and Health Subcommittee Vice Chair Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today released the following statement after an Obama-appointed judge ruled that the White House visitor logs are subject to Freedom of Information Act requests. “Despite the president’s repeated promises that this would be the most open and transparent Administration in history, the White House has failed to disclose even the most basic information, such as visitor logs. The committee has launched several investigations, including a review of secret health care negotiations and the Department of Energy stimulus loan guarantee program, but time and again, we have been met with resistance. We welcome Judge Howell’s decision reinforcing that the White House’s business is subject to federal law and must be made transparent to the American people." In an ongoing pattern of obstruction, the White House has failed to turn over documents requested in the committee’s investigation of closed-door health reform meetings, and the committee was forced to issue a subpoena to acquire documents related to the loan guarantee investigation. On May 3, 2011, the Administration failed to produce a witness for an Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing to discuss concerns with transparency, visitor logs, and lobbyists. For more information, click here. “The White House visitor logs are a first step to obtain basic information, but we expect the White House to cooperate with additional information requests made by the committee and outside watchdog groups," said the leaders. For a detailed account of the committee’s investigations, please click here. ###
08.10.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in The Colony. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as unemployment, taxes, and the debt ceiling are expected to be discussed. share: f t Burgess To Hold The Colony and Little Elm Town Hall Meeting Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in The Colony. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as unemployment, taxes, and the debt ceiling are expected to be discussed. The Colony and Little Elm Town Hall Meeting Tuesday, August 16, 2011 7 pm to 8 pm The Colony High School Performing Arts Center 4301 Blair Oaks Road The Colony, Texas For constituents unable to attend the meeting in person, the town hall is scheduled for live broadcast on Dr. Burgess’ website. For more information on the town hall meeting visit burgess.house.gov/TownHall. *Persons requiring special accommodations should contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled meeting at 972-434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
08.04.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in Denton. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as unemployment, taxes, and the debt ceiling are expected to be discussed. share: f t Burgess To Hold Denton Town Hall Meeting Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in Denton. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as unemployment, taxes, and the debt ceiling are expected to be discussed. Denton Town Hall Meeting Tuesday, August 9, 2011 7 pm to 8 pm Denton High School Auditorium 1007 Fulton Street Denton, Texas For constituents unable to attend the meeting in person, the town hall is scheduled for live broadcast on Dr. Burgess’ website. For more information on the town hall meeting visit burgess.house.gov/TownHall. *Persons requiring special accommodations should contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled meeting at 972-434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
08.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – After voting in favor of the Budget Control Act of 2011, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement.“While I have serious reservations about this legislation, I know it is imperative that it passes to ensure that the already shaken economy does not become even more unstable. Although, I wanted legislation that had bigger cuts and included a balanced budget agreement, I had to look at this realistically... share: f t Washington, D.C. – After voting in favor of the Budget Control Act of 2011, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement. “While I have serious reservations about this legislation, I know it is imperative that it passes to ensure that the already shaken economy does not become even more unstable. Although, I wanted legislation that had bigger cuts and included a balanced budget agreement, I had to look at this realistically. As long as there is a Democratic Senate and a Democrat in the White House, there will always be barriers to accomplish these conservative goals. Though not ideal, passing this bill will ensure that our military, veterans, and seniors receive what has been promised, and our economy will not fall in even further disarray.” ###
07.28.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following video statement on the Budget Control Act of 2011. Click on the image below to watch the video. To view a transcript of the video click here. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following video statement on the Budget Control Act of 2011. Click on the image below to watch the video. To view a transcript of the video click here. ###
07.20.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Maryland Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) introduced the bipartisan National Neurological Diseases Surveillance System Act. While thousands of Americans are affected by Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson’s, and other neurological diseases, very little accurate information exists to assist those who research, treat, and provide care to those suffering from these diseases – this bill would help change that. The House passed the legislation on September 28, 2010, but the legislation was not brought to a vote in the Senate. share: f t Van Hollen, Burgess Introduce National Neurological Diseases Surveillance System Act Washington, DC – Today, Maryland Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) introduced the bipartisan National Neurological Diseases Surveillance System Act. While thousands of Americans are affected by Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson’s, and other neurological diseases, very little accurate information exists to assist those who research, treat, and provide care to those suffering from these diseases – this bill would help change that. The House passed the legislation on September 28, 2010, but the legislation was not brought to a vote in the Senate. “The bipartisan National Neurological Diseases Surveillance System Act will establish a system at the CDC that will ultimately provide more accurate information and assist those who research, treat, and provide care to those suffering from neurological diseases, including Multiple Sclerosis and Parkinson’s disease,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “I am proud to have worked with Congressman Burgess on this important legislation, which will provide a foundation for evaluating and understanding the occurrence of these diseases, improve treatment, and hopefully lead to cures.” “As Co-Chair of the Congressional MS Caucus, I firmly believe a national surveillance system would allow for future planning of health care needs, detect changes in health practices, promote advocacy, and support a wide range of research initiatives,” Dr. Burgess said. “Surveillance activities similar to this exist for other diseases, but currently not for neurological diseases. A coordinated approach to data collection would allow researchers, and physicians to be able to identify at-risk populations, diagnose earlier, and ultimately, find common factors that will lead to cures.” Parkinson’s Action Network CEO Amy Comstock Rick said, "Right now, we can only cite estimated numbers when talking about Parkinson's cases because the frustrating truth is that we actually don’t know how many people are living with Parkinson’s disease in America. This important legislation sets us on a course to learn who is affected by this terrible disease and where there are geographic clusters, which ultimately will enable scientists to better understand the causes of MS and Parkinson’s disease and help move us toward better treatments and a cure." Joyce Nelson, President and CEO of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, stated, “Currently, both public and private entities are allocating considerable resources to find treatments and ultimately, a cure for MS; however, the researchers are constrained because they don’t have access to the most fundamental data about the disease. With more accurate data about the characteristics and number of people living with MS, both the government and privately-funded researchers will be able to tailor their research more effectively and use their resources most efficiently. This legislation will also allow us to learn more directly who is affected by this terrible disease and where there are geographic clusters.” To read the full text of the legislation, click here. ###
07.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Tonight, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), voted in favor of the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act, H.R. 2560. The legislation is aimed at cutting discretionary and mandatory spending, capping federal spending at the 2012 level for the next ten years, and qualifying a debt ceiling increase Balanced Budget Amendment. share: f t Burgess Votes in Favor of Cap, Cut, and Balance Washington, D.C. – Tonight, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), voted in favor of the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act, H.R. 2560. The legislation is aimed at cutting discretionary and mandatory spending, capping federal spending at the 2012 level for the next ten years, and qualifying a debt ceiling increase Balanced Budget Amendment. “This Congress was elected to bring fiscal sanity to Washington. The number one problem right now is that Congress is writing post-dated checks on an overdrawn account,” said Dr. Burgess. “America is on a path of fiscal destruction - one that may threaten the very fabric of our republic. We cannot allow America to continue on this path, and Cap, Cut, and Balance moves America in the right direction on spending.” Cap, Cut, and Balance will not cap spending for veterans, Social Security or Medicare, but it will save $5.8 trillion over ten years by placing spending limits with sequestration procedures. These imitations would exempt payment for military personnel accounts, military retirement, TRICARE for Life, veterans spending, net interest, Medicare, and Social Security. “It is important that we take care of those who have given so much,” said Dr. Burgess. “Funding for our military, and for this country’s obligations to our veterans, is a commitment which must be kept. In addition, we must ensure that those who have spent the majority of their lives paying into Social Security should receive what they have been promised.” One of the main sections of the legislation will require that a Balanced Budget Amendment be passed first before the debt ceiling is increased. The amendment will also require that a super-majority vote be met for Congress to increase taxes, and there must be a total limit on federal spending. “Families across this nation are cutting their spending at home, and Washington must do the same,” said Dr. Burgess. “America can’t afford more spending and more debt while not seeing growth. America needs more jobs. We need to quit spending money we do not have and we need to put people back to work. Dealing with these important issues will allow America to do what we’ve always done best: create, innovate, and lead. Cap, Cut, and Balance puts us in the right direction.” The legislation passed by a vote of 234 to 190. It will now move to the Senate for debate. ###
07.15.2011	Last night, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), introduced an amendment that would allow 100-watt lighbulbs to continue to be sold past the January 1 ban date. The amendment would prevent the Department of Energy from enforcing the Subtitle B of Title III of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which bans the 100-watt lightbulb. The amendment passed with a voice vote and without objection. After the vote, Dr. Burgess released the following statement. share: f t Burgess Amendment Allows 100-Watt Bulbs to be Sold Washington, D.C. – Last night, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), introduced an amendment that would allow 100-watt lighbulbs to continue to be sold past the January 1 ban date. The amendment would prevent the Department of Energy from enforcing the Subtitle B of Title III of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which bans the 100-watt lightbulb. The amendment passed with a voice vote and without objection. After the vote, Dr. Burgess released the following statement. “Starting January 1, if Home Depot or your local grocery store has the 100-watt bulb in their inventory, they will not be allowed to sell them. That means they will take all 100-watt bulbs off the shelf, and they will never see the consumer. My amendment will allow the stores to continue to sell what they have in stock. The 2007 provision never said that these companies could not make the bulb, it said that they couldn’t be sold. “Further, if a manufacturer should choose to continue to make 100-watt bulbs, they would be permitted under this language, as there is clearly a market based on the thousands of consumers who have contacted Congress upset about their inability to buy 100-watt lightbulbs. This is about the consumer driving the market, not the federal government deciding the market.” To view Dr. Burgess’ floor speech on his amendment click here. ###
07.12.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26), Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY-17), Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX-08), and Congressman Charlie Rangel (D-NY-15), introduced The Equal Access and Parity for Multi-Campus Hospitals (HITECH) Act, HR 2500. The legislation would ensure that multi-campus hospitals that adopt and use health IT systems that meet appropriate standards are treated fairly under federal rules receiving incentive payments that take into account their higher costs of implementation. The legislation was introduced with over fifty bi-partisan co-sponsors. share: f t Burgess, Engel, Brady, Rangel, Introduce Legislation to Ensure Multi-Campus Hospitals Receive Health IT Incentives Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26), Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY-17), Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX-08), and Congressman Charlie Rangel (D-NY-15), introduced The Equal Access and Parity for Multi-Campus Hospitals (HITECH) Act, HR 2500. The legislation would ensure that multi-campus hospitals that adopt and use health IT systems that meet appropriate standards are treated fairly under federal rules receiving incentive payments that take into account their higher costs of implementation. The legislation was introduced with over fifty bi-partisan co-sponsors. “The current rule provides only one payment for multi-campus hospitals, treating them as if they were only one hospital,” said Dr. Burgess who serves as the Vice-Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health. “In reality though, if a hospital has multiple campuses, they will be spending money for HIT implementation at each location. Even after several attempts to get this provision fixed, the rule still ignored the issue, and this bill would finally fix the problem." “The Equal Access and Parity for Multi-Campus Hospitals Act corrects some omissions made in previous legislation designed to aid health professionals to incorporate Health Information technology into their systems. I am proud to introduce this bi-partisan legislation with my Colleagues Dr. Burgess (R-TX), Mr. Rangel (D-NY) and Mr. Brady (R-TX), as I believe that multi-campus hospitals should not be penalized for having more than one location. This legislation will allows hospitals, such as Montefiore Medical Center, to get their fair share,” said Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY-17), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health. “As Washington encourages health care providers to improve their IT systems, we want to ensure equal funding treatment for hospitals with multiple campuses. This will accelerate state-of-the-art technology and coordination, and will fulfill the intention of Congress,” said Rep. Brady. "This bill clarifies Congressional intent to provide a common sense, fair approach for multi-campus health systems. We need widespread adoption of electronic health records and incentive payments to provide increased quality of care for the American people. I am proud to be part of this bi-partisan bill and will work to see its quick passage," said Rep. Rangel. Multi-campus hospital systems have incremental acquisition, training, and implementation costs when adopting health IT systems. The legislation clarifies that the health IT incentives in the Recovery Act should address these costs and offers choices for how the campuses receive these incentive payments, reflecting differences between large and small multi-campus hospital systems. Heath care organizations have commended the legislation. “This legislation is instrumental to delivering the promise of electronic health records to more Americans,” said AHA President and CEO Rich Umbdenstock. “And with integrated electronic health records will come improved patient outcomes and efficiencies in care delivery to support better health and health care.” “The Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC), thanks Representatives Burgess, Brady, Rangel and Engel on introduction of the bipartisan The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act. This important legislation will help our nation’s teaching hospitals implement fully integrated HIT systems with interoperable electronic health records (EHR) throughout entire health care systems, improve and coordinate the best possible care for their patients, and train the country’s physicians in new technologies and care models,” said Association of American Medical Colleges President and CEO Darrell G. Kirch, M.D. ###
07.12.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, the United States of Representatives voted on the Better Use of Light Bulbs (BULB) Act. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), helped lead legislation efforts to repeal the Subtitle B of Title III of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which bans the 100-watt lightbulb. The legislation failed with a vote of 233 to 193. After the vote, Dr. Burgess released the following statement. share: f t Democrats Block Consumer Choice on Lightbulbs Washington, D.C. – Today, the United States of Representatives voted on the Better Use of Light Bulbs (BULB) Act. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), helped lead legislation efforts to repeal the Subtitle B of Title III of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which bans the 100-watt lightbulb. The legislation failed with a vote of 233 to 193. After the vote, Dr. Burgess released the following statement. “The new bulbs cost more and at a time when American families are already tightening their budgets, they should be able to choose the standard inexpensive bulb that has been available for years. This is about choice. The government already over regulates, and this is one place where it is definitely not needed. This is another example of the government overreaching into the lives of Americans.” “This ban has not only cost American’s their choice, it has cost American jobs. In 2010, the last major GE factory that manufactured the incandescent light bulb closed its doors as a result of the reckless 2007 legislation. As a result two-hundred people lost their jobs, and this wasn’t the only plant to close as a result of the 2007 legislation. In addition, these jobs are being sent overseas as GE has said that the new lights cost about fifty percent more to make in the United States than in China. “This is just another example of the job killing legislation Democrats focused on in previous Congresses. Unfortunately the House voted to not repeal the ban and as a result Americans will be forced to purchase lightbulbs regulated by the federal government.” ###
07.11.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement after the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) issued a proposed ruling that would establish health insurance exchanges and implement additional regulations for states to follow to be in compliance with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA). share: f t Burgess Statement on Health and Human Services Proposed Rule Establishing Health Insurance Exchanges Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement after the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) issued a proposed ruling that would establish health insurance exchanges and implement additional regulations for states to follow to be in compliance with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA). “Secretary Sebelius’ announcement this morning mandates that states will have to follow additional federal regulations to be in compliance with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. America did not need the health care law. America did not want the health care law. America does not need the government to continue to execute additional rules. The concept of an insurance exchange is not necessarily a bad idea. However, states being compelled to establish exchanges and forced to comply with regulations that fit with the federal government’s vision, will not necessarily work for the state. Unfortunately more regulations will come, and Americans will continue to see the disarray caused by the health care law. ” ###
07.08.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement regarding the unemployment numbers released by the U.S. Department of Labor this morning. “The latest unemployment numbers provide further evidence that the failing policies implemented by the Obama administration continue to be unsuccessful, and come at a cost to the American people. After the $830 billion stimulus package, twenty-eight straight months of unemployment over eight-percent, and eight hundred days since Democrats have passed a budget, Americans are still asking, where are the jobs? America can’t afford more spending, more debt, and more regulations while not seeing growth. America needs jobs. House Republicans are committed to putting Americans back to work and have offered our plan to create jobs and boost economic growth. share: f t Burgess Statement on June Unemployment Numbers Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement regarding the unemployment numbers released by the U.S. Department of Labor this morning. “The latest unemployment numbers provide further evidence that the failing policies implemented by the Obama administration continue to be unsuccessful, and come at a cost to the American people. After the $830 billion stimulus package, twenty-eight straight months of unemployment over eight-percent, and eight hundred days since Democrats have passed a budget, Americans are still asking, where are the jobs? America can’t afford more spending, more debt, and more regulations while not seeing growth. America needs jobs. House Republicans are committed to putting Americans back to work and have offered our plan to create jobs and boost economic growth. “The problem is spending. Congress is writing post-dated checks on an overdrawn account. In order to revive our economy, we must cut job-destroying government spending. This will help the economy to recover, and to allow employers to create jobs. The House Republican plan focuses on private sector job growth while removing government barriers. This pro-growth agenda allows America to do what we’ve always done best: create, innovate, and lead. We were sent to Congress to make hard decisions, and I hope all Members of Congress will move forward in a manner that will help us dig out of the fiscal chasm we are currently in today.” ###
07.01.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will host a summit on energy efficiency and conservation, on Saturday, July 9 at the University of North Texas. Local and state officials, as well as industry experts and businesses, will attend and speak at the summit and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient while saving on their energy costs. share: f t Burgess, Local Leaders And Industry Experts To Discuss Energy Efficiency And Conservation “We must all do our part to become more energy efficient and strive for an energy independent America.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will host a summit on energy efficiency and conservation, on Saturday, July 9 at the University of North Texas. Local and state officials, as well as industry experts and businesses, will attend and speak at the summit and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient while saving on their energy costs. The summit will feature two panels, the first panel focusing on ways to save energy in design and construction of buildings and houses, and the second panel will discuss energy efficiency and conservation for mobility. Former CIA Director R. James Woolsey Jr. will address “Energy Policy and U.S. Security.” The summit will also feature a fair with booths providing energy-related information and resources. “We must all do our part to become more energy efficient and strive for an energy independent America,” Dr. Burgess said. “I invite you to join me as I bring together experts to discuss our country’s energy agenda, including the future of energy in America, ways Texas has lead the nation in many types of renewable energies, and how recent federal policies will impact Texas.” Energy Efficiency & Conservation Summit & Fair Saturday, July 9, 2011 8:30 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. University of North Texas Discovery Park 3940 North Elm Denton, TX 76207 Hosted By: Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Keynote Speaker: R. James Woolsey Jr., former Director of Central Intelligence and head of the Central Intelligence Agency Constituents wanting more information regarding the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Summit and Fair can visit /EnergySummit, or contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at (972) 434-9700 or by e-mail: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
07.01.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement in recognition of Independence Day. “On July 4th, 235 years ago, our Founding Fathers adopted the Declaration of Independence. This document marked a historic step in our country’s founding, and established “freedom” as a core principle of this great nation. share: f t Burgess Statement on Independence Day Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement in recognition of Independence Day. “On July 4th, 235 years ago, our Founding Fathers adopted the Declaration of Independence. This document marked a historic step in our country’s founding, and established “freedom” as a core principle of this great nation. “As we spend time with our families and loved ones this weekend to celebrate Independence Day, I hope each of us takes a moment to reflect and remember the sacrifices that have been made, and are still being made every day, by the brave men and women who are fighting for our freedoms. May God continue to bless America.” ###
06.30.2011	In February eighty-eight Members of the House and the Senate, led by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26), Congressman Bill Pascrell Jr. (D-NJ-08), Senator Robert Menendez (D-New Jersey) and Senator Pat Roberts (R-Kansas), sent bipartisan letters to Dr. Donald Berwick, Administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) urging him to delay and review enforcement of a new requirement that was included in the 2011 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Final Rule. Today, the provision that would require laboratory requisition forms to be signed by the ordering physician was proposed to be rescinded. share: f t Congress Successfully Pushes CMS to Review and Rescind Burdensome Requirement Washington, D.C. – In February eighty-eight Members of the House and the Senate, led by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26), Congressman Bill Pascrell Jr. (D-NJ-08), Senator Robert Menendez (D-New Jersey) and Senator Pat Roberts (R-Kansas), sent bipartisan letters to Dr. Donald Berwick, Administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) urging him to delay and review enforcement of a new requirement that was included in the 2011 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Final Rule. Today, the provision that would require laboratory requisition forms to be signed by the ordering physician was proposed to be rescinded. “The new enforcement was unnecessary and went beyond delaying care, Medicare beneficiaries could end up spending a lot of their time contacting providers to get required signatures and providers could see their payments delayed or worse, possibly denied for a new administration hurdle,” said Dr. Burgess who serves as the Vice-Chair of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. “Creating more bureaucracy, in a system that can sometimes already be hard to navigate, only creates more problems. Patients, physicians, hospitals, nursing homes, and laboratories could not afford to have this change implemented, and all supported this effort. I am glad to see that CMS made the right decision in pulling this provision back so that we can put patient care first.” “I have heard from numerous laboratories and physicians throughout Kansas about the difficulties this rule would have caused their practices, including additional costs and delays for patients and providers alike and I am pleased that sound reason has prevailed in the decision to retract this burdensome rule,” said Roberts. “In medicine, our goal must be to cure the sick, not create headaches with medical red tape,” said U.S. Sen. Robert Menendez (D-NJ). “I’m glad the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services took the time to evaluate the impact of its policy regarding physician signature requirements and has determined that it’s best to change course on its policy. Doing so removes unnecessary roadblocks for patients, doctors and businesses.” “This good news to anyone who believes that our health care system is already complicated enough. Patients, health care providers and laboratories need government’s help, not harassment. It appears today that the CMS is recognizing that fact,” said U.S. Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ-8), a member of the House Ways and Means and Budget Committees. “As Congress members work to make sure that eligible Americans continue to receive the Medicare and Medicaid benefits they deserve, I’m a glad that the CMS is willing to consider removing an unnecessary requirement from their processes.” CMS created the new requirement without a legislative mandate and explicitly required a physician signature on requisitions for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests paid under the clinical laboratory fee schedule. In addition, CMS was misguided further by trying to implement this rule without concern for the timeframe necessary to ensure access or educate providers of what would have been a significant change of procedure. Health care laboratories are pleased with the decision to withdraw the requirement. “On behalf of community and regional laboratories, many of which care for our most vulnerable Medicare beneficiaries, the National Independent Laboratory Association is relieved CMS understood the negative ramifications their rule would have had on patients and community labs across the country. We are grateful for the leadership of Congressmen Burgess and Pascrell in helping us communicate our concerns to CMS.” - Mark Birenbaum, PhD, National Independent Laboratory Association “ACLA sincerely appreciates CMS rectifying this unworkable situation ensuring there will be no disruption in the provision of vital clinical laboratory services to Medicare beneficiaries,” stated ACLA President Alan Mertz. “Clarifying the situation once and for all is important so that all Medicare providers and contractors have unambiguous direction on this policy change,” added Mertz. To view the letter Members of Congress sent to CMS click here. To view the letter Members of the Senate sent to CMS click here. ###
06.30.2011	This week, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) sent a letter to Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), requesting that the “mystery caller” program that HHS had proposed to see if there is adequate access to primary care and whether private insurance beneficiaries receive different service than those with public insurance be halted until further evaluation of program’s approach be conducted by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Ways and Means, as well as the Senate Finance Committee. share: f t Burgess Sends Letter Opposing “Mystery Caller” Program, HHS Stops Program Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) sent a letter to Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), requesting that the “mystery caller” program that HHS had proposed to see if there is adequate access to primary care and whether private insurance beneficiaries receive different service than those with public insurance be halted until further evaluation of program’s approach be conducted by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Ways and Means, as well as the Senate Finance Committee. "I do not know why HHS would be spending time and money trying to find out information we already know,” said Dr. Burgess who is the Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus. “The data they were trying to collect will only point to what most doctors will already tell you, we need more doctors. In addition, we need to enact policies that make public insurance more attractive to provider participated and despite its own flaws, in general, private insurance is more attractive to providers.” The same day Dr. Burgess sent the letter, HHS publicly announced that they were suspending the program, “After reviewing feedback received during the public comment period, we have determined that now is not the time to move forward with this research project. Instead, we will pursue other initiatives that build on our efforts to increase access to health care providers nationwide.” “I was relieved to hear that HHS was suspending this program,” said Dr. Burgess. “The approach that HHS planned to take would yield unintended consequences and would have only further driven physicians away from public insurance. The “mystery caller approach” does not serve the integrity of these public programs or their beneficiaries.” To view the letter Dr. Burgess sent to Secretary Sebelius click here. ###
06.20.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in Trophy Club. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as health care reform, taxes and spending are expected to be discussed. share: f t Burgess To Hold Trophy Club & Roanoke Town Hall Meeting Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in Trophy Club. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as health care reform, taxes and spending are expected to be discussed. Trophy Club & Roanoke Town Hall Meeting Tuesday, June 28, 2011 7 pm to 8 pm Byron Nelson High School Performing Arts Center 2775 Bobcat Boulevard Trophy Club, Texas For constituents unable to attend the meeting in person, the town hall is scheduled for live broadcast on Dr. Burgess’ website. For more information on the town hall visit /TownHall. *Persons requiring special accommodations should contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled meeting at 972-434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
06.15.2011	Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY-17) and Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26) re-introduced the Gestational Diabetes Act of 2011 (GEDI), legislation designed to lower the incidence of gestational diabetes and prevent affected women and their children from later developing Type 2 diabetes. The bill passed the House last year but stalled in the Senate. share: f t Reps. Engel, Burgess Introduce Gestational Diabetes Act Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY-17) and Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26) re-introduced the Gestational Diabetes Act of 2011 (GEDI), legislation designed to lower the incidence of gestational diabetes and prevent affected women and their children from later developing Type 2 diabetes. The bill passed the House last year but stalled in the Senate. “Over the last 15 years, the number of Americans with diabetes has doubled to more than 20 million, with approximately 135,000 American women diagnosed with gestational diabetes annually. It can occur in women who have never had diabetes, but who have high blood sugar levels during pregnancy. While the condition usually goes away after pregnancy, it could have significant future impacts on both mother and child, including an increased risk of Type 2 diabetes. We need to be more proactive in detecting, treating and slowing the incidents of gestational diabetes,” said Rep. Engel, a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health, and primary author of the legislation. “The statistics surrounding diabetes are staggering, but we must always remember there is a human face behind every number, with far too many of them being children.” “During my 25-year medical practice as an obstetrician I saw far too many expectant mothers and newborn babies affected by gestational diabetes. This is a preventable disease, and patients will benefit from additional knowledge. It is important that the House of Representatives provide this level of attention,” said Dr. Burgess who is the Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus. “The statistics speak for themselves – mothers diagnosed with gestational diabetes are more likely to develop Type 2 diabetes, and their children are at an increased risk not only for diabetes but other pre-natal complications as well. This bill will improve detection and lead to more effective preventative measures that will reduce clinical costs for the patients as well as the states.” The recommended screening period for gestational diabetes is during weeks 24-28 of a pregnancy. This is when most gestational diabetes cases are diagnosed, and the majority of cases go away post-natal. However, if untreated, it could have significant impacts on the mother and her child giving them higher risks of developing Type 2 diabetes among other potential complications. “The American Diabetes Association commends Representatives Engel and Burgess for their leadership in introducing the Gestational Diabetes Act of 2011, which supports better health for mothers and their babies through expanded research and surveillance. This legislation is essential to reducing complications and preventing women from developing diabetes,” said John W. Griffin, Jr., Chair of the Board, American Diabetes Association. The legislation would: Develop a multi-site gestational diabetes research project within the CDC (Centers for Disease Control) diabetes program to enhance surveillance and public health research on gestational diabetes. Provide demonstration grants to focus on reducing the incidence of gestational diabetes. Expand basic, clinical and public health research investigating gestational diabetes and current treatments and therapies available. The Congressmen both believe that the ongoing fight against diabetes is a bipartisan battle and one that needs constant attention. By continuing to develop ways to identify, treat and prevent, the eventual goal of finding a cure becomes obtainable. The fight against gestational diabetes cannot be eased because the disease never rests.
05.31.2011	Washington, D.C. – The United States House of Representatives is expected to vote on legislation later today that will increase the federal government’s legal debt limit by $2.4 trillion, raising the limit to $16.7 trillion. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement and will vote against the measure: share: f t Burgess to Vote No on Debt Limit Increase Washington, D.C. – The United States House of Representatives is expected to vote on legislation later today that will increase the federal government’s legal debt limit by $2.4 trillion, raising the limit to $16.7 trillion. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement and will vote against the measure: “The debt ceiling vote today is a simple question – is Congress willing to increase our debt limit by $2.4 trillion while not making any spending cuts? Absolutely not. Today’s vote comes with no cuts, and the level of unsustainable debt threatens the fabric of our republic. America must stop spending money we do not have and address the real issues that will put America back on a financial track that will turn this economy around.” ###
05.31.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the death of the Honorable Bill Clements: “I am deeply saddened by the passing of former Governor Bill Clements, an important figure in the history and success of the Republican Party in Texas. share: f t Burgess Statement on the Passing of the Honorable Bill Clements Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the death of the Honorable Bill Clements: “I am deeply saddened by the passing of former Governor Bill Clements, an important figure in the history and success of the Republican Party in Texas. Clements brought his remarkable entrepreneurial talents to the Texas government and served our state with principled leadership. He will be remembered as an influential leader who laid the foundation for the success of the Republican Party in Texas, and he will be sorely missed not only by his family, friends and colleagues, but also by people across the state who have been inspired by his service and initiative.” ###
05.30.2011	"Memorial Day is a time when we can pause and reflect on the sacrifices of the hundreds of thousands of men and women who have fallen in service to our nation. They have upheld our values of liberty, justice and self-determination. Today I proudly join my fellow Americans in honoring and remembering these brave individuals who have given their lives for the sake of freedom and liberty. share: f t Burgess Statement on Memorial Day Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement in honor of Memorial Day. "Memorial Day is a time when we can pause and reflect on the sacrifices of the hundreds of thousands of men and women who have fallen in service to our nation. They have upheld our values of liberty, justice and self-determination. Today I proudly join my fellow Americans in honoring and remembering these brave individuals who have given their lives for the sake of freedom and liberty. "We must also remember the families of our Armed Forces, who know firsthand the sacrifices that are made when their loved ones serve this great nation. As Americans, we are called to do our part to uphold the ideals for which these individuals have given so much. "Our great veterans, whose service reminds us every day that we are able to live in the greatest nation in the world, we join with them as we remember those who gave the ultimate sacrifice. "To those who have fallen, to those who serve, and to those who have served - and to your families - thank you."
05.28.2011	As Memorial Day approaches, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 2011 Congressional Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project, sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. share: f t Burgess Requests Nominations For 2011 Congressional Veteran Commendation “Our nation’s veterans have proudly and honorably served our country and preserved our freedom, and it is because of their service that we enjoy all the liberties we are afforded.” Washington, D.C. – As Memorial Day approaches, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 2011 Congressional Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project, sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. “Our nation’s veterans have proudly and honorably served our country and preserved our freedom, and it is because of their service that we enjoy all the liberties we are afforded,” said Dr. Burgess. “These brave men and women deserve our thanks and praise, and I am proud to recognize the veterans in Texas’ 26th Congressional District and honor their service through the 2011 Congressional Veteran Commendation.” To nominate a veteran for the Congressional Veteran Commendation, please fill out the nomination form, which can be found on Dr. Burgess’ website. The deadline for submitting nominations is September 19, 2011. The completed nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, should be submitted to Dr. Burgess’ Lewisville office. To be eligible for nomination, veterans must be currently residing in the 26th District of Texas, have served the nation honorably during their military career, and subsequently demonstrated dedication to their community. Those individuals selected to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation will be recognized and honored at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association on November 8, 2011. An in-depth interview will be conducted with comendees and that interview will be forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection. For more information regarding the project, visit the Library of Congress’ website. To obtain additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the 26th District of Texas, please contact Dr. Burgess’ District Administrator, Robin Vaughan, at (972) 434-9700 or visit Dr. Burgess’ website. ###
05.27.2011	Yesterday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R, Texas-26) and Congresswoman Shelley Berkley (D, Nevada-01) introduced the Preservation of Access to Osteoporosis Testing For Medicare Beneficiaries Act of 2011. The legislation, H.R. 2020, would maintain the current Medicare payment policy for osteoporosis testing through 2013. share: f t Bipartisan Legislation will Preserve Osteoporosis Testing Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R, Texas-26) and Congresswoman Shelley Berkley (D, Nevada-01) introduced the Preservation of Access to Osteoporosis Testing For Medicare Beneficiaries Act of 2011. The legislation, H.R. 2020, would maintain the current Medicare payment policy for osteoporosis testing through 2013. “Osteoporosis and related bone diseases pose a public health issue of enormous proportions, affecting millions of Americans and costing billions of dollars,” said Dr. Burgess. “As a physician, I diagnosed and treated many patients during my 25-years of practicing medicine in Texas, and I saw firsthand the way osteoporosis affects patients and their families. The more we can do to promote and encourage education, awareness, and prevention, the better. Why Medicare will pay for a fracture, but not reimburse a reasonable amount for a scan that can prevent that fracture, is beyond me.” Osteoporosis and low bone density affect more than 44 million Americans over the age of 50. Many Americans, especially seniors, are not being screened or are unaware of the steps they can take to prevent development of this disease. Half of all women and one-fourth of all men over age 50 will experience an osteoporosis related fracture in their lifetime and at a cost of almost $19 billion per year, and that cost could increase by almost 50 percent over the next two decades. “Prevention, early diagnosis and proper treatment of osteoporosis can help reduce life-threatening fractures and generate savings for our healthcare system,” said Berkley. “We know that older Americans who suffer a broken hip or other bone fracture are at greater risk of serious complications. So we can protect quality of life -- and prevent deaths -- by making sure seniors on Medicare have access to bone density screenings and can get treated if they are diagnosed with this disease. Osteoporosis and other related diseases already cost our healthcare system $19 billion per year, so we can also reduce costs by preventing more fractures through our bill. As someone who was personally diagnosed with osteoporosis, I can speak from experience about the importance of screenings and treatment so that patients can take steps to prevent further bone loss and fractures.” Early diagnosis and treatment of osteoporosis has been demonstrated to dramatically reduce fracture rates and generate substantial savings. Because osteoporosis often causes no symptoms until a fracture occurs, the identification of those at risk for a potentially debilitating fracture is essential. H.R. 2020 has been endorsed by national medical societies and patient advocate organizations, such as the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, and National Osteoporosis Foundation. Senator Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Michigan) introduced mirror legislation in their respective chambers. ###
05.24.2011	Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement regarding Kevin Jennings’s departure with the Department of Education. “It is with great relief I note the departure of Kevin Jennings from the Department of Education. The so-called Safe School Czar was an embarrassment to the administration and an affront to parents everywhere. share: f t Burgess Statement on Kevin Jennings’s Departure with the Department of Education Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement regarding Kevin Jennings’s departure with the Department of Education. "It is with great relief I note the departure of Kevin Jennings from the Department of Education. The so-called Safe School Czar was an embarrassment to the administration and an affront to parents everywhere. His inability to recognize appropriate boundaries restricting sexual relationship between adults and children rendered him unfit for any post in the Department of Education. The fact that the Obama administration stood by quietly while Mr. Jennings served in a public position with the Department of Education was completely deplorable. Mr. Jennings’s announcement that he is leaving the Department of Education means that our schoolchildren are safer. I only wish he had never received this appointment in the first place, and our schoolchildren should have never been put in jeopardy.” ###
05.04.2011	Today legislation sponsored by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) passed the United States House of Representatives. The legislation, H.R. 1214, repeals reckless mandatory funding for school based health center construction that was included in the Patient Protection Affordable Care Act (PPACA). share: f t Burgess Legislation Passes House and Repeals Mandatory Funding “In our current financial times it is not only necessary, but our responsibility, that we examine all of our spending and make the necessary adjustments.” Washington, D.C. – Today legislation sponsored by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) passed the United States House of Representatives. The legislation, H.R. 1214, repeals reckless mandatory funding for school based health center construction that was included in the Patient Protection Affordable Care Act (PPACA). “This legislation is a simple bill aimed at a simple goal,” said Dr. Burgess. “The goal being to get at some of the spending that the PPACA unwisely treated to an advanced appropriation. This bill does not touch the discretionary program to provide care. What it does do is rescind any unspent funds and return them to the treasury. In our current financial times it is not only necessary, but our responsibility, that we examine all of our spending and make the necessary adjustments.” Section 4101(a) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act provides $50 million in mandatory spending for construction and expansion of school based health centers every year through 2013. The $50 million in grants are for construction only and there is an express prohibition on these funds being used to provide health services. Secretary of Health and Human, Kathleen Sebelius, will have complete discretion on how to use the funding. “I am not against school based health centers,” said Dr. Burgess. “I am on record supporting them and believe opening health care points of access is important. I want to do more in this realm, but providing mandatory spending to construct facilities without adequate safeguards that they will provide care is irresponsible. Not one guarantee of a doctor, not one cent of payment for an immunization, not one ounce of common sense in this section of PPACA.” The Congressional Budget Office estimates that H.R.1214 will give $100 million back to the Treasury. The legislation has received support from the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste and the National Taxpayer Union. H.R. 1214 passed the House with a vote of 235 to191. It will now move to the Senate for debate and a vote. ###
05.02.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the death of Osama bin Laden: "Almost ten years after the attacks on September 11 that took almost 3,000 lives, Osama bin Laden has been brought to justice. To our brave men and women who have been fighting for our freedom and those who have given the ultimate sacrifice, and to our intelligence agencies that have provided their tireless support, I want to thank them for their efforts that led to this success. I also want to thank President Obama, as well as President Bush, for their leadership. share: f t Burgess Statement On Death of Osama bin Laden Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the death of Osama bin Laden: "Almost ten years after the attacks on September 11 that took almost 3,000 lives, Osama bin Laden has been brought to justice. To our brave men and women who have been fighting for our freedom and those who have given the ultimate sacrifice, and to our intelligence agencies that have provided their tireless support, I want to thank them for their efforts that led to this success. I also want to thank President Obama, as well as President Bush, for their leadership. "The death of bin Laden is great news for the security of America and marks a key achievement in our efforts to defeat al Qaeda. America will remain vigilant in our fight against al Qaeda and other radical extremism around the world, and we will continue to do everything we can to protect the American people." ###
04.26.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in Frisco. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as health care reform, taxes and spending are expected to be discussed. share: f t Burgess To Hold Frisco & Little Elm Town Hall Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in Frisco. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as health care reform, taxes and spending are expected to be discussed. Frisco & Little Elm Town Hall Meeting Thursday, April 28, 2011 7 pm to 8 pm Lone Star High School Auditorium 2606 Panther Creek Parkway, Frisco Corner of Panther Creek Parkway and Teel Road For constituents unable to attend the meeting in person, the town hall is scheduled for live broadcast on Dr. Burgess’ website. For more information on the town hall visit /FriscoTownHall or /LittleElmTownHall. *Persons requiring special accommodations should contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled meeting at 972-434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
04.26.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced the winner of the ninth annual 26th Congressional District art competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Diana Rodriguez, a freshman art student of Camille Kerr at Timber Creek High School in Fort Worth, won first prize in the 2011 competition with her photograph entitled “Carnival Ride.” The art competition was open to public, private, and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the 26th Congressional District. share: f t Burgess Announces Winners of Congressional High School “An Artistic Discovery” Competition Timber Creek High School Student’s Work to be Displayed in U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced the winner of the ninth annual 26th Congressional District art competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Diana Rodriguez, a freshman art student of Camille Kerr at Timber Creek High School in Fort Worth, won first prize in the 2011 competition with her photograph entitled “Carnival Ride.” The art competition was open to public, private, and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the 26th Congressional District. “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic achievements of our local high school students and to share the results of those talents with our area and the rest of the country,” Dr. Burgess said. “Diana’s work makes the 26th District proud. She is a very talented young woman with a tremendous gift.” Dr. Burgess honored all the participating student artists at a reception recently at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton hosted by the art competition’s co-sponsor, The Greater Denton Arts Council. The juried competition was judged by professional artist and instructor Jo Williams. Diana’s work will be displayed in the United States Capitol complex for the coming year. A ribbon-cutting ceremony opening the national 2011 “An Artistic Discovery” exhibition will take place in Washington, D.C. in June. The ceremony will honor the winning artists from congressional districts all over the country. The second, third and Honorable Mention winners were announced as well: Tegan Clare, also a freshman at Timber Creek High School and student of Camille Kerr, won second place. Sarah Barnett, a junior art student of Liz Bonham at Keller High School, placed third. Both students have the opportunity to have their artwork displayed in Dr. Burgess’ district offices for the next year. In addition, Jessica Gore was awarded the Juror’s Honorable Mention; she is a student of Faith Jessup at Guyer High School in Denton. Katherine Choi, an art student of Michelle Harper at Flower Mound High School, had her artwork voted the “Texas Choice” Honorable Mention winner by popular vote of the reception attendees. “Congratulations are in order for Diana, Tegan, Sarah, Jessica and Katherine for their creative achievements,” said Dr. Burgess. Since the competition was first launched in 1982, nearly 5,000 local contests have been conducted that have involved more than 650,000 high school students. NOTE: Photos of the winners are below, click on the student’s name to download. Diana Rodriguez, a freshman at Timber Creek High School in Fort Worth and student of Camille Kerr placed first. Tegan Clare, a freshman at Timber Creek High School and student of Camille Kerr, placed second. Sarah Barnett, a junior at Keller High School and student of Liz Bonham placed third. Jessica Gore, a senior at Guyer High School in Denton and student of Faith Jessup was awarded the Juror’s Honorable Mention. Katherine Choi, a sophomore at Flower Mound High School and student of Michelle Harper was voted the “Texas Choice” Honorable Mention. ###
04.26.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced the winner of the ninth annual 26th Congressional District art competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Diana Rodriguez, a freshman art student of Camille Kerr at Keller ISD’s Timber Creek High School in Fort Worth, won first prize in the 2011 competition with her photograph entitled “Carnival Ride.” The art competition was open to public, private, and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the 26th Congressional District. share: f t Burgess Announces Winners of Congressional High School “An Artistic Discovery” Competition - Top Three Winners from Keller ISD Timber Creek High School Student’s Work to be Displayed in U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced the winner of the ninth annual 26th Congressional District art competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Diana Rodriguez, a freshman art student of Camille Kerr at Keller ISD’s Timber Creek High School in Fort Worth, won first prize in the 2011 competition with her photograph entitled “Carnival Ride.” The art competition was open to public, private, and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the 26th Congressional District. “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic achievements of our local high school students and to share the results of those talents with our area and the rest of the country,” Dr. Burgess said. “Diana’s work makes the 26th District proud. She is a very talented young woman with a tremendous gift.” Dr. Burgess honored all the participating student artists at a reception recently at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton hosted by the art competition’s co-sponsor, The Greater Denton Arts Council. The juried competition was judged by professional artist and instructor Jo Williams. Diana’s work will be displayed in the United States Capitol complex for the coming year. A ribbon-cutting ceremony opening the national 2011 “An Artistic Discovery” exhibition will take place in Washington, D.C. in June. The ceremony will honor the winning artists from congressional districts all over the country. For the first time since Dr. Burgess has been hosting the art competition, the top three finalists are from one school district: Keller ISD. Tegan Clare, also a freshman at Timber Creek High School and student of Camille Kerr, won second place. Sarah Barnett, a junior art student of Liz Bonham at Keller High School, placed third. Both students have the opportunity to have their artwork displayed in Dr. Burgess’ district offices for the next year. Dr. David Stevens, Director of Fine Arts for Keller ISD was on hand to congratulate the winning student artists from Keller ISD. The Honorable Mention winners were announced as well: Jessica Gore was awarded the Juror’s Honorable Mention; she is a student of Faith Jessup at Guyer High School in Denton. Katherine Choi, an art student of Michelle Harper at Flower Mound High School, had her artwork voted the “Texas Choice” Honorable Mention winner by popular vote of the reception attendees. “Congratulations are in order for Diana, Tegan, Sarah, Jessica and Katherine for their creative achievements,” said Dr. Burgess. Since the competition was first launched in 1982, nearly 5,000 local contests have been conducted that have involved more than 650,000 high school students. NOTE: Photos of the winners are below, click on the student’s name to download. Diana Rodriguez, a freshman at Timber Creek High School in Fort Worth and student of Camille Kerr placed first. Tegan Clare, a freshman at Timber Creek High School and student of Camille Kerr, placed second. Sarah Barnett, a junior at Keller High School and student of Liz Bonham placed third. Jessica Gore, a senior at Guyer High School in Denton and student of Faith Jessup was awarded the Juror’s Honorable Mention. Katherine Choi, a sophomore at Flower Mound High School and student of Michelle Harper was voted the “Texas Choice” Honorable Mention. Group Photo: (L-R) Keller High School teacher Liz Bonham, Keller ISD Director of Fine Art Dr. David Stevens, 3rd place winner Sarah Barnett, Timber Creek teacher Camille Kerr, 2nd place winner Tegan Clare, 1st place winner Diana Rodriguez, Congressman Michael C. Burgess M.D.. ###
04.22.2011	Eight months after a provision that prohibited the state of Texas, and Texas alone, from accessing emergency education funding, $830 million dollars were delivered to the state earlier this afternoon. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26) and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) each led legislation in their respective chambers to get this provision removed and allow Texas to receive the funding it was originally denied. share: f t Hutchison and Burgess: Emergency Education Funding Delivered to Texas Texas Schoolchildren No Longer Penalized Washington, D.C. – Eight months after a provision that prohibited the state of Texas, and Texas alone, from accessing emergency education funding, $830 million dollars were delivered to the state earlier this afternoon. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26) and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) each led legislation in their respective chambers to get this provision removed and allow Texas to receive the funding it was originally denied. “Today our schoolchildren and teachers received the funding they should have never been denied,” said Dr. Burgess. “For months I worked with Senator Hutchison to repeal the Doggett language and today Governor Perry told me Texas did receive the funding from the Department of Education. This $830 million will give our schoolchildren, teachers, and communities additional funding during this financial crisis - today is indeed Good Friday.” “I am very pleased that Texas teachers and students are now being treated fairly. The Texas Republican delegation, with strong leadership by Congressman Michael Burgess, worked for months to undo the discriminatory Doggett amendment that could have cost Texas schoolchildren $830 million in badly needed funding for their education. This is a victory for our state’s students and teachers,” said Sen. Hutchison. Last August Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX-25) included an amendment in the Education Jobs Fund bill, H.R. 1586, that required the state of Texas, during the fiscal years 2011 to 2013 to maintain state support for elementary and secondary education at a level equal to or greater than the percentage provided for fiscal year 2011. That provision placed requirements on Texas beyond what all other states were required to make in order to qualify for funding and violated the Texas Constitution. When the final 2011 budget was signed into law earlier this month, it included language that completely repealed the Doggett language, allowing Texas to meet the requirements to receive the funding. ###
04.14.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1473 that will fund the federal government through the end of the fiscal year. “The most important piece of this legislation was funding for our military. As America continues to engage in three wars, it was essential that our troops and their families receive a paycheck and that our brave men and women who are fighting have the resources they need. share: f t Burgess Statement On Troop Funding Legislation Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1473 that will fund the federal government through the end of the fiscal year. “The most important piece of this legislation was funding for our military. As America continues to engage in three wars, it was essential that our troops and their families receive a paycheck and that our brave men and women who are fighting have the resources they need. “While I think we could have made more cuts, what we were able to cut is significant and sends a message to the President that Republicans will not allow America to continue to spend money it doesn’t have. Let me be clear, more cuts need to be made. While Congress is finally starting to cut spending, we must continue to work to ensure that more cuts are made in the 2012 budget. “We’ve been able to change the conversation from what we are going to spend to what we are going to cut. We’re just cutting last year’s funding and as we move into appropriations for 2012, we will be able to cut even more. While the road ahead is long and we are far from where we need to be, this legislation will help steer us in the right direction for the budget.” ###
04.14.2011	A provision that prohibited the state of Texas, and Texas alone, from receiving education funding is one step closer to being repealed. Today the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1473 that will fund the federal government through the end of the fiscal year. Included in the legislation was a provision that would repeal the language Congressman Lloyd Doggett (TX-25) inserted into H.R. 1586 that singled out Texas from receiving education funding that every other state received. share: f t Texas Schoolchildren One Step Closer in Receiving $830 Million “Schoolchildren and teachers will finally have the opportunity to receive the $830 million they should have never been denied.” Washington, D.C. – A provision that prohibited the state of Texas, and Texas alone, from receiving education funding is one step closer to being repealed. Today the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1473 that will fund the federal government through the end of the fiscal year. Included in the legislation was a provision that would repeal the language Congressman Lloyd Doggett (TX-25) inserted into H.R. 1586 that singled out Texas from receiving education funding that every other state received. “Today is a great day for the education system in Texas,” said Dr. Burgess. “Schoolchildren and teachers will finally have the opportunity to receive the $830 million they should have never been denied. At a time when school budgets are hurting this funding is overdue.” Last August Congressman Lloyd Doggett (TX-25) included an amendment in the Education Jobs Fund bill, H.R. 1586, that required the state of Texas, during the fiscal years 2011 to 2013 to maintain state support for elementary and secondary education at a level is that equal to or greater than the percentage provided for fiscal year 2011. That provision placed requirements on Texas beyond what all other states were required to make in order to qualify for funding and violated the Texas Constitution. “For months I’ve been working with Senator Hutchison to repeal this language and get this funding to Texas,” said Dr. Burgess. “The Texas education system was unfortunately used as a pawn and Rep. Doggett should have never prevented our children and teachers from receiving this funding. Now that this legislation has passed the House, Texas is one step closer to receiving funding they should have never had to jump through hoops to get.” H.R. 1473 passed the House with a vote of 260 to 167. It will now move to the Senate for immediate consideration. ###
04.14.2011	Last night Flower Mound High School was honored at the 10th anniversary “Grammy’s on the Hill Awards.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) presented the “Grammy Signature School Award” to Ryan Youngblood who is a student at the high school and to Adel Martinez who is one of the instructors. Vice President Joe Biden, Senator Bob Corker and Gammy winning recording artist Don Henley were also honored at the event, and Stevie Wonder, Paul Williams, Michael W. Smith, Dave Koz and Bruce Hornsby were in attendance. share: f t Flower Mound High School Honored at “Grammy’s on the Hill” “In 1999 Flower Mound High School opened with the hope of becoming “A World Class School Educating Tomorrow’s Leaders,” and not only are they leaders in music, they are leaders in the classroom and it is an honor to represent them in Congress.” Washington, D.C. – Last night Flower Mound High School was honored at the 10th anniversary “Grammy’s on the Hill Awards.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) presented the “Grammy Signature School Award” to Ryan Youngblood who is a student at the high school and to Adel Martinez who is one of the instructors. Vice President Joe Biden, Senator Bob Corker and Gammy winning recording artist Don Henley were also honored at the event, and Stevie Wonder, Paul Williams, Michael W. Smith, Dave Koz and Bruce Hornsby were in attendance. “I was honored to present the “Grammy Signature School Award” to Flower Mound High School,” said Dr. Burgess. “Flower Mound’s music department is quite impressive as they have three orchestras and six bands. If that wasn’t enough, Flower Mound has also nationally recognized award-winning drum line and color guard program. They also boast eight award-winning choirs.” Recipients for the “Grammy Signature School Award” are chosen based on excellence in instruction, performance, musical diversity and/or financial need. Ultimately, they overcome challenges such as budget cuts in their arts programs and still create thriving programs that enrich students’ lives, make them better academic achievers, and instill within them a gift that will last a lifetime, the love of music. “These high school students are remarkable,” said Dr. Burgess “They have performed with the Fort Worth Symphony and have traveled all over the world; from singing at masses in the Vatican and the Salzburg Cathedral to touring extensively in Austria, Italy, Spain and Puerto Rico. In addition, they excel in the class room. Flower Mound High School ranks among the 20 top high schools in the nation. In 1999 Flower Mound High School opened with the hope of becoming “A World Class School Educating Tomorrow’s Leaders,” and not only are they leaders in music, they are leaders in the classroom and it is an honor to represent them in Congress. ***To download a photo of Congressman Burgess with Flower Mound High School student Ryan Youngblood and instructor Adel Martinez click here.*** ###
04.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - A provision that prohibited Texas—and Texas alone – from accessing emergency education funding was dropped from the final long-term Continuing Resolution to fund the U.S. government through the end of fiscal year 2011, according to Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) and Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26). Hutchison and Burgess each led legislation in their respective chambers to get this provision removed from the final bill. share: f t Washington, D.C. - A provision that prohibited Texas—and Texas alone – from accessing emergency education funding was dropped from the final long-term Continuing Resolution to fund the U.S. government through the end of fiscal year 2011, according to Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) and Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX-26). Hutchison and Burgess each led legislation in their respective chambers to get this provision removed from the final bill. “It was unthinkable to deny Texas schools access to emergency funds that are available to every other state. While state and local budgets, and property taxes, are strained to the limits, our schools should not be needlessly excluded from accessing available assistance,” said Sen. Hutchison, who has been working for months to have the anti-Texas language removed from the funding bill. “Congressman Burgess and I worked hard to have this anti-Texas provision taken out of the budget bill. Texas schools and students will no longer be unfairly singled out and penalized.” “The schoolchildren and teachers in Texas will finally have the opportunity to receive the $830 million they should have had in the first place,” said Dr. Burgess. “This funding should have never been denied, and it is a shame that Mr. Doggett put Texas education funding at risk. For months Senator Hutchison and I have been working together to repeal this language and give schoolchildren, teachers, and our communities the funding they need during this financial crisis. We are one step closer to ending a senseless war on Texas schoolchildren.” The provision, passed last year, required Texas to make three-year funding assurances for schools to be submitted to the US Department of Education, while every other state only had to submit one-year funding plans. In addition the provision also mandated how the state was to distribute the emergency funding, while all other states were given the flexibility to determine how best to distribute any funds. With final enactment of the 2011 budget, Texas schools will have equal access with other states to emergency funding. The Texas allotment is up to $830 million of the total $ 10 Billion in the Education Jobs Fund. The emergency spending requirements do not permit Texas to reduce its own share of funding for education if the state applies for the federal emergency funds for FY 2011. ###
04.09.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement after a bipartisan agreement was reached that funds the Department of Defense and prevents a government shutdown. “An agreement has been made that will cut $79 billion below President Obama’s 2011 budget proposal. This is the second largest spending cut in the history of our country. More importantly, this agreement will ensure that our military and their families do not see any interruption in their pay and will have the resources they need as America continues to engage in three wars. In addition, this agreement will prevent a government shutdown. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement after a bipartisan agreement was reached that funds the Department of Defense and prevents a government shutdown. “An agreement has been made that will cut $79 billion below President Obama’s 2011 budget proposal. This is the second largest spending cut in the history of our country. More importantly, this agreement will ensure that our military and their families do not see any interruption in their pay and will have the resources they need as America continues to engage in three wars. In addition, this agreement will prevent a government shutdown. “We still have a long road ahead of us. From the uncontrolled spending to defunding the Patient Protection Affordable Care Act, the battle to get America back on track is far from over. This was one step that will help steer us in the right direction.” ###
04.07.2011	Today the House of Representatives voted on the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, H.R. 1363, which will fund the Department of Defense through the end of the fiscal year. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) voted in favor of H.R. 1363 which passed the House by a vote of 247 to 189. share: f t House Votes on Troop Funding Legislation “We are currently involved in three wars and not ensuring that our troops receive this funding would be irresponsible.” Washington, D.C. – Today the House of Representatives voted on the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, H.R. 1363, which will fund the Department of Defense through the end of the fiscal year. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) voted in favor of H.R. 1363 which passed the House by a vote of 247 to 189. “Ensuring that those who are defending our freedom have the resources they need is a top priority,” said Dr. Burgess. “This funding should have been addressed well before now. We are currently involved in three wars and not ensuring that our troops receive this funding would be irresponsible.” The Department of Defense Appropriations Act includes provisions that would prevent Guantanamo Bay detainees from being transferred into the United States, provides full funding to the U.S.-Israel Memorandum of Understanding for fiscal year 2011, and prohibits taxpayer funding of abortion in the District of Columbia. In addition, the legislation will provide funding for federal agencies for an additional week. “We have already passed two bills that would provide funding for the government through the end of the fiscal year and would cut $61 billion in spending,” said Dr. Burgess. “While our nation is engaged in combat it is vital that we ensure that our brave men and women, and their families, receive a paycheck on time and have the resources they need should the Senate continue to not take action in passing long-term funding and there be a government shutdown. Today’s legislation does just that.” The legislation will now move to the Senate for debate and a vote. ###
04.04.2011	The weather in North Texas is unpredictable and can change in an instant. North Texans can never be too prepared for the natural disasters that may impact the region. In an effort to help residents and businesses be better prepared for severe weather and natural disasters, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), is hosting the third annual Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair on April 16 in Trophy Club. share: f t Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair Will Help North Texans Prepare For Severe Weather and Natural Disasters “There is a wealth of information available to families and businesses in North Texans on how they can prepare and plan for severe weather and natural disasters.” Washington, D.C. – The weather in North Texas is unpredictable and can change in an instant. North Texans can never be too prepared for the natural disasters that may impact the region. In an effort to help residents and businesses be better prepared for severe weather and natural disasters, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), is hosting the third annual Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair on April 16 in Trophy Club. The event will feature two panels of experts from local, state, and federal organizations, and will provide information on weather and disaster preparedness. In addition, there will be a fair with booths and outdoor exhibits where weather and disaster specific organizations will present and distribute pertinent consumer information. The event will open at 7:45 am with access to the fair, and presentations will begin at 8:30 am. Chief Meteorologist for CBS 11, Larry Mowry, will deliver the keynote address. “There is a wealth of information available to families and businesses in North Texans on how they can prepare and plan for severe weather and natural disasters,” said Congressman Burgess. “I want to make sure North Texans are prepared by having the tools and knowledge on what to do in an emergency.” Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair Saturday, April 16, 2010 7:45 am – 12 noon Byron Nelson High School 2775 Bobcat Boulevard Trophy Club, TX 76262 Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) CBS 11 Chief Meteorologist Larry Mowry Weather and preparedness experts from local, state and federal organizations Constituents wanting more information regarding the Emergency Preparedness Summit & Fair can visit /EmergencyPreparednessSummit, or contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at (972) 434-9700 or by e-mail: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
03.24.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) invites area students who are interested in learning more about our nation’s service academies to attend the 2011 North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum. The event, which is free and open to the public, is co-sponsored by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Senator John Cornyn, Congressman Sam Johnson, Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman Joe Barton, Congresswoman Kay Granger, Congressman Bill Flores, Congressman Kenny Marchant, and Congressman Pete Sessions. share: f t Burgess Announces North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum “North Texas students and their families will be able to attend this free event which will provide them the opportunity to learn more about the application process for some of the nation’s top-notch educational institutions.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) invites area students who are interested in learning more about our nation’s service academies to attend the 2011 North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum. The event, which is free and open to the public, is co-sponsored by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Senator John Cornyn, Congressman Sam Johnson, Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman Joe Barton, Congresswoman Kay Granger, Congressman Bill Flores, Congressman Kenny Marchant, and Congressman Pete Sessions. “North Texas students and their families will be able to attend this free event which will provide them the opportunity to learn more about the application process for some of the nation’s top-notch educational institutions,” Burgess said. “I am pleased to co-host this informative event with my congressional colleagues.” North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum Saturday, April 2, 2011 8:00 AM – 12:00 Noon Registration begins at 7:30 AM Gateway Church, North Richland Hills Campus 7501 Davis Boulevard North Richland Hills, 76182 Representatives from congressional offices, all five academies - U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy - and ROTC, as well as current academy cadets and midshipmen, will be on hand to speak with students and their families one-on-one about the excellent possibilities associated with attending these premier educational institutions, and the sorts of careers they generate. This informational forum provides interested students in grades eight through twelve the opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission and the selection process. For more information regarding the Academies Forum, visit burgess.house.gov/AcademyForum, or contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at (972) 434-9700 or by e-mail: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
03.23.2011	Today marks one year since the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement marking the one year anniversary: “It has been one year since the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law. As a physician I am the first to admit we must reform America’s health care system, but the way the last Congress and President Obama approached the challenge simply did not address the areas that needed improvement. Instead, it has created a system where we will pay more to get less. share: f t Burgess Statement on One Year Anniversary of the Health Care Law “What we have gained in surface area has been lost in depth and substance, and we are left with a rushed and ineffective law that will cost us more than just higher taxes.” Washington, D.C. – Today marks one year since the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement marking the one year anniversary: “It has been one year since the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law. As a physician I am the first to admit we must reform America’s health care system, but the way the last Congress and President Obama approached the challenge simply did not address the areas that needed improvement. Instead, it has created a system where we will pay more to get less. “The American people made it very clear – give us reform that will address the problems, and leave what is working alone. What the American people did not want was a 2,409 page bill that shatters a system working for almost two-thirds of the American people. What Congress should have done was tackle the one-third of Americans who needed help. We could have addressed and accomplished reform in stand-alone bills, and at a much lower cost. “We have seen that the new health care law is not what the American people want. What we have gained in surface area has been lost in depth and substance, and we are left with a rushed and ineffective law that will cost us more than just higher taxes.” ###
03.14.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has reintroduced his popular Freedom Flat Tax legislation to fundamentally reform America’s tax system. HR 1040 introduces an optional flat-rate tax system. “Each year Americans spend 6.1 billion hours preparing their tax forms and the IRS has 1,176 forms and instructions listed on their website,” said Dr. Burgess. “It’s no wonder that even the IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman has said, ‘I find the tax code complex so I use a preparer.’” share: f t Burgess Reintroduces HR 1040, The Freedom Flat Tax Act “It’s no wonder that even the IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman has said, ‘I find the tax code complex so I use a preparer.’” Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has reintroduced his popular Freedom Flat Tax legislation to fundamentally reform America’s tax system. HR 1040 introduces an optional flat-rate tax system. “Each year Americans spend 6.1 billion hours preparing their tax forms and the IRS has 1,176 forms and instructions listed on their website,” said Dr. Burgess. “It’s no wonder that even the IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman has said, ‘I find the tax code complex so I use a preparer.’” The Freedom Flat Tax Act will phase-in the flat tax over a three-year period, with a 19-percent rate for the first two years and a 17-percent rate in subsequent years. It will have no loopholes, but will allow some personal exemptions like a standard deduction. Unlike other versions of the flat tax, this legislation allows individuals and businesses to choose if and when they will opt into the system. The flat tax restores fairness to the tax code by treating everyone equally. “The goal of the Freedom Flat Tax is to create a tax system that minimizes the number of market-distorting investment decisions that are made as a result of the current tax system,” said Dr. Burgess. “People should base their financial decisions on common-sense economics, not the tax code. HR 1040 is simple, fair and pro-growth.” A benefit of the Freedom Flat Tax is the spur to economic growth, which comes through eliminating the current tax code’s bias against savings and investment. Because the flat tax treats all economic activity equally, it will promote greater economic efficiency and increased prosperity. The legislation creates a fair and simple system, which will help boost economic activity. ###
03.09.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) is pleased to announce the opening of "An Artistic Discovery," the annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Since the U.S. House of Representatives created the competition in 1982, hundreds of thousands of talented high school students have served as artistic ambassadors of their communities. share: f t The 2011 “An Artistic Discovery” Congressional High School Art Contest Announced Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) is pleased to announce the opening of "An Artistic Discovery," the annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Since the U.S. House of Representatives created the competition in 1982, hundreds of thousands of talented high school students have served as artistic ambassadors of their communities. The contest is open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing and/or attending schools located in the 26th Congressional District. The Greater Denton Arts Council (GDAC) co-sponsors the annual juried event. Student artists will have their works judged by a professional art educator chosen by the GDAC. All entry forms must be received from interested teachers no later than March 23rd. Entry forms can be faxed to (972) 434-9705 or emailed to joan.self@mail.house.gov. Artwork may be dropped off by teachers to Dr. Burgess’ Lewisville and Fort Worth offices as well as to the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton, 8 AM-5 PM, on Friday, March 25th and Monday, March 28th. All artwork must be accompanied by a signed student release form. Competition participants, their parents, teachers, and school administrators will be invited to attend a reception on Monday, April 18th, at 5:30 p.m. to view all the entries on display at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton. All the participants will be honored during the reception. First prize in the competition is the display of the winning student's artwork for an entire year in the House corridor to the U.S. Capitol. The exhibit is traveled daily by members of Congress, their staff, and thousands of visitors who are able to view the artwork from Congressional districts throughout the country—each artwork is highlighted with the name of the work and student artist. The 26th District winner and a guest will be invited to Washington, D.C. in the summer to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony honoring the winning artists and opening the 2011 "An Artistic Discovery" exhibition. In addition, the competition’s second and third place winners will have the opportunity to have their work displayed publicly in Dr. Burgess’ Lewisville and Fort Worth district offices for the upcoming year. If you have any questions regarding the Congressional High School Art Contest or a student’s eligibility to participate, please contact Joan Self in Dr. Burgess’ Lewisville district office at (972) 434-9700 or joan.self@mail.house.gov. To find this year’s guidelines, entry form and release form, click on the following links: Congressional Art Contest Guidelines for Students Congressional Art Contest School Entry Form Congressional Art Contest Student Release Form ###
03.08.2011	In February, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced the Dental Emergency Responder Act, H.R. 570. Today, it passed the House by a vote of 401 to 12. “Today Congress fixed a technical oversight that kept dentists and dental schools from being included in emergency response plans,” said Dr. Burgess. “Dentists are a vital part of our health care communities and receive a sound general medical background during their professional education.” share: f t Burgess Legislation Expands Federal Disaster Resources “Dentists are a vital part of our health care communities and receive a sound general medical background during their professional education.” Washington, D.C. – In February, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced the Dental Emergency Responder Act, H.R. 570. Today, it passed the House by a vote of 401 to 12. “Today Congress fixed a technical oversight that kept dentists and dental schools from being included in emergency response plans,” said Dr. Burgess. “Dentists are a vital part of our health care communities and receive a sound general medical background during their professional education.” While dentists receive a general medical training background during their professional education, the National Health Security Strategy leaves out dental health facilities and dentists in the emergency response plan. In addition, dental schools have at times been denied the ability to play a role in disaster preparedness. The Dental Emergency Responder Act incorporates dentistry by name into the federal disaster response framework. “In the aftermath of a natural disaster, terrorist attack or public health emergency, traditional medical delivery systems can become overwhelmed,” said Dr. Burgess. “In these situations it is vital that states work with all qualified and licensed providers to ensure a volunteer workforce to assist. Dentists and dental school are equipped to take patient medical histories, administer injections, and triage patients.” The bill puts no restrictions on mandates on the states, but provides additional resources in planning. Additionally, it clarifies that dentists may be considered voluntary disaster response public health workers and that states can incorporate dentists and dental facilities, at their option, into their planning. The Dental Emergency Responder Act is deficit neutral and is endorsed by the American Dental Association, Academy of General Dentistry, and the Organized Dental Coalition. “With its quick action on H.R. 570, the House today acknowledged the advanced education and expertise of the nation’s dentists, fully trained doctors whose volunteered skills would be immeasurably valuable in a coordinated response to a disaster,” said Raymond Gist, D.D.S., president of the American Dental Association. “We thank Congressman Burgess for his commitment to this legislation.” The legislation will now move to the Senate for debate and a vote. ###
03.03.2011	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) reintroduced the Medical Justice Act, which would improve patient access to doctors by putting an end to unnecessary lawsuits brought about by trial lawyers. “Physicians are forced to trim their budgets in order to cover their insurance costs, often resulting in laying off staff, limiting access to certain aspects of their practice, or closing their practice all together,” said Dr. Burgess. “We need national, across-the-board change in the tort reform system, and my bill would do just that. Runaway lawsuits are unnecessary and costly, and reforming medical liability must be a part of the national health care debate.” share: f t Burgess Reintroduces Legislation to End Unnecessary Health Care Lawsuits “Runaway lawsuits are unnecessary and costly, and reforming medical liability must be a part of the national health care debate.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) reintroduced the Medical Justice Act, which would improve patient access to doctors by putting an end to unnecessary lawsuits brought about by trial lawyers. “Physicians are forced to trim their budgets in order to cover their insurance costs, often resulting in laying off staff, limiting access to certain aspects of their practice, or closing their practice all together,” said Dr. Burgess. “We need national, across-the-board change in the tort reform system, and my bill would do just that. Runaway lawsuits are unnecessary and costly, and reforming medical liability must be a part of the national health care debate.” The Medical Justice Act would regulate civil actions for an injury or death resulting from health care by, among other things, limiting the non-economic damages that an individual could recover. Medical litigation and soaring malpractice insurance premiums contribute significantly to the rising cost of health care. Physicians are forced to practice defensive medicine in fear of being second-guessed by trial lawyers, which results in millions of dollars in unnecessary tests, procedures, and imaging. Furthermore, seasoned medical professionals are retiring early because staying in practice is no longer financially feasible, further contributing to our nation's doctor shortage. “Texas has led the nation in medical justice reform, and is now a model state for what successful tort reform looks like,” Dr. Burgess said. “Unfortunately, only a few states have followed suit, leaving too many Americans trapped in a system that is harmful to patients and doctors.” Dr. Burgess’ legislation mirrors the commonsense reform Texas put in place in 2003, when the state passed legislation to address sky-rocketing medical lawsuits and a declining pool of medical professionals. The results are documented reduction in liability insurance rates, reported growth in the number of doctors licensed each year, and increased charity care, among others. “All Americans deserve to enjoy the benefits Texas has seen thanks to the eradication of our epidemic of health care lawsuit abuse,” said Texas Medical Association President Susan R. Bailey, MD. “Since our new law took effect, Texas has licensed 21,000 new physicians, including a record 3,621 in fiscal year 2008,” Dr. Bailey said. “This has been good medicine for the people of Texas, and Dr. Burgess’ plan would apply this life-saving treatment to the rest of the country.” ###
03.01.2011	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced the United States War Bonds Act of 2011, which authorizes the issuance of United States War Bonds to aid in the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. “Our brave men and women in uniform, and their families, have given the ultimate sacrifice to defend and protect our country, and war bonds are a way for Americans to show support for our soldiers and their mission,” Dr. Burgess said. “War bonds send a strong message to those fighting to preserve freedom, that they have our unwavering and steadfast backing.” share: f t Burgess Introduces Legislation To Authorize Bonds To Help Fund Military Operations In Iraq And Afghanistan “Our brave men and women in uniform, and their families, have given the ultimate sacrifice to defend and protect our country, and war bonds are a way for Americans to show support for our soldiers and their mission.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced the United States War Bonds Act of 2011, which authorizes the issuance of United States War Bonds to aid in the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. “Our brave men and women in uniform, and their families, have given the ultimate sacrifice to defend and protect our country, and war bonds are a way for Americans to show support for our soldiers and their mission,” Dr. Burgess said. “War bonds send a strong message to those fighting to preserve freedom, that they have our unwavering and steadfast backing.” During World War II, more than 85 million Americans, roughly half the population then, purchased war bonds totaling $185.7 billion. By authorizing the Treasury Secretary to issue and sell war bonds to fund operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other military operations abroad identified by the Secretary of Defense as being part of the international conflicts against terrorism, Dr. Burgess’ hopes to mirror the same successes that was experienced with war bonds during World War II. War bonds are also an alternative to increasing taxes or borrowing from future generations to fund current war efforts. “War bonds were a successful source of revenue during World War II, and allowed American citizens to affirmatively support our troops,” Dr. Burgess said. “War bonds are also fiscally responsible and a smart way to invest money during a time of economic downturn.” ###
02.19.2011	Today, Congress voted on the Continuing Resolution (CR) that will fund federal government agencies through the end of September. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) voted yes on the legislation. “We were sent to Congress to make hard decisions,” said Dr. Burgess. “Cutting funding is tough to do. No one wants to take money away from programs that serve the public. We are in a financial crisis, and over $14 trillion in debt. American families are cutting their budget and this week Congress had to do the same.” share: f t Burgess Votes on Continuing Resolution “We are in a financial crisis, and over $14 trillion in debt. American families are cutting their budget and this week Congress had to do the same.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congress voted on the Continuing Resolution (CR) that will fund federal government agencies through the end of September. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) voted yes on the legislation. “We were sent to Congress to make hard decisions,” said Dr. Burgess. “Cutting funding is tough to do. No one wants to take money away from programs that serve the public. We are in a financial crisis, and over $14 trillion in debt. American families are cutting their budget and this week Congress had to do the same.” The United States is in a financial crisis and the unemployment rate has been at nine percent or higher for twenty-one months straight. Federal programs have received funding increases over the past several years that have outpaced inflation. “The problem that we are facing is that we need to stop spending money we don’t have,” Dr. Burgess continued. “The bottom line is that in order to revive our economy we must cut job-destroying government spending to help the economy to recover and to allow employers to create jobs.” In total, the CR will save over $100 billion compared to President Obama’s 2011 fiscal year request. The CR includes no earmark funding and eliminates all previous earmarks from fiscal year 2010. Also included is a provision that eliminates all unobligated funding that was included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). The CR passed in the House by a vote of 235 to 189 and will now move to the Senate. ###
02.19.2011	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) announced the thirty-three individuals from the 26th District of Texas who have been selected as Class of 2015 nominees to our nation’s service academies. These outstanding young men and women were nominated to attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. share: f t Burgess Announces Service Academy Nominees “I know each of these students will perform admirably, and serve honorably as officers in our country’s military services.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) announced the thirty-three individuals from the 26th District of Texas who have been selected as Class of 2015 nominees to our nation’s service academies. These outstanding young men and women were nominated to attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. “I was very impressed by the high caliber of candidates that applied to my office,” said Dr. Burgess. “The selection process was very competitive, and each of these students has a strong record of academic performance and leadership in school activities, sports, JROTC, and community and volunteer service. I proudly nominated them for admission to our nation’s service academies. If selected to attend their respective academies, I know each of these students will perform admirably, and serve honorably as officers in our country’s military services.” Nominees were selected after a rigorous application process culminating in a personal interview with Dr. Burgess’ Academy Advisory Board. A congressional nomination does not guarantee admission to one of the service academies as the academies’ respective admissions boards ultimately decide who is offered appointment, and ultimately admitted. If appointed, the nominees will enter this summer. The following candidates were nominated to the service academies. Several individuals have been nominated to multiple academies; if they receive appointment offers from more than one academy, the student will have to choose one to attend. Nominees that have already received appointments are noted. More appointments are expected in the coming weeks. Francis Abbey of Lewisville attends Lewisville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. **Received appointment to U.S. Military Academy. Matthew Bauman of Hurst attends L.D. Bell High School in Hurst and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Brandon Bear of Flower Mound attends Flower Mound High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Braeden Blazek of Hurst attends Nolan Catholic High School in Fort Worth and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. **Received appointment to U.S. Military Academy. Patrick Casey of Flower Mound attends Texas A&M University and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Casey Clayton of Corinth attends Guyer High School in Denton and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Michael Connolly of Keller attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. David Cook of Keller attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Nolan Devine of Argyle attends Argyle High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. David Durand of Flower Mound attends Marcus High School in Flower Mound and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Ben Dye of Flower Mound attends Carroll Senior High School in Southlake and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Micah Easterling of Denton attends Ponder High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Nicholas Gannon of Westlake attends St. Mark’s School of Texas in Dallas and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Garrett Getschow of Flower Mound previously attended and has been nominated to return to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Meagan Gor of Keller attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Mallory Herron of Flower Mound attends the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. David Hildinger of Double Oak attends the University of North Texas and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Colin Hinchey of Corinth attends Guyer High School in Denton and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Levi Hoggard of Denton attends Ryan High School in Denton and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. **Received appointment to U.S. Military Academy. Matthew Jernigan of Flower Mound attends the New Mexico Military Institute and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Diwaker Joshi of Flower Mound attends TAMS at the University of North Texas and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. **Received appointment to U.S. Naval Academy. Violeta Lopez of Richland Hills attends Texas A&M University and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Zach Lord of Keller attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. **Received appointment to U.S. Military Academy. Jennifer Marcum of North Richland Hills attends Texas A&M University and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Jesse McCrady of Lewisville attends Lewisville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Michael Measom of Hurst attends L.D. Bell High School in Hurst and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Zachary Moore of Lewisville attends Marcus High School in Flower Mound and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Madison Oliver of Flower Mound attends Liberty Christian School in Argyle and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. **Received appointment to U.S. Military Academy. Simon Park of Flower Mound attends Flower Mound High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Justin Tjahjono of Corinth attends iSchool High in Lewisville and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Nicolas Towers of Keller attends the University of North Texas and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Patrick Vickery of Argyle attends Argyle High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Jordan Webster of Denton attends the University of Texas at Arlington and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. **Received appointment to U.S. Naval Academy. Additional information regarding the academy nomination and application process may be obtained on Burgess’ website at http://burgess.house.gov or by contacting Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, in the Lewisville district office at 972-434-9700. ###
02.19.2011	Early this morning the amendment Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) entered into the Continuing Resolution (CR) that would provide $830 million to Texas education passed with a vote of 235 to 187. “The schoolchildren and teachers in Texas will finally have the opportunity to receive the $830 million they should have had in the first place,” said Dr. Burgess. “This money should have never been denied when the original bill passed, and it is a shame that Mr. Doggett put education funding at risk.” share: f t Burgess Introduces Amendment to Provide $830 Million to Texas Education “This money should have never been denied when the original bill passed, and it is a shame that Mr. Doggett put education funding at risk.” Washington, D.C. – Early this morning the amendment Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) entered into the Continuing Resolution (CR) that would provide $830 million to Texas education passed with a vote of 235 to 187. “The schoolchildren and teachers in Texas will finally have the opportunity to receive the $830 million they should have had in the first place,” said Dr. Burgess. “This money should have never been denied when the original bill passed, and it is a shame that Mr. Doggett put education funding at risk.” Last August, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (TX-25), included an amendment in the state jobs bailout bill, H.R. 1586, that required the state of Texas, during the fiscal years 2011 to 2013 to maintain state support for elementary and secondary education at a level is that equal to or greater than the percentage provided for fiscal year 2011. That provision placed requirements on Texas beyond what all other states were required to make in order to qualify for funding and violated the Texas Constitution. To remedy this situation, Dr. Burgess introduced H.R. 532 earlier this month; however, because the $830 million must be delivered to Texas before the fiscal year ends at the end of September, it was included in the CR to ensure that Texas received the funding that was senselessly denied. “At a time when school budgets are hurting, we should not prevent our children and teachers from receiving their share of available funding,” said Dr. Burgess. “Now that this has passed the House, Texas is one step closer to receiving funding they should have never had to jump through hoops to get. We are one step closer to ending a senseless war on Texas schoolchildren.” The CR will now move to the Senate for debate and a vote. ###
02.15.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in Lewisville. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as health care reform, taxes and spending are expected to be discussed. share: f t Burgess To Hold Lewisville Town Hall Meeting Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold a town hall meeting in Lewisville. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as health care reform, taxes and spending are expected to be discussed. Lewisville Town Hall Meeting Thursday, February 24, 2011 7 pm to 8 pm Medical Center of Lewisville Grand Theater Performance Hall 100 N. Charles Street Parking will be available on Main and Church Streets and in the Lewisville City Hall lot on Church Street. For constituents unable to attend the meeting in person, the town hall is scheduled for live broadcast on Dr. Burgess’ website. For more information on the town hall visit burgess.house.gov/LewisvilleTownHallMeeting. *Persons requiring special accommodations should contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled meeting at 972-434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
02.10.2011	When President Reagan announced that he had Alzheimer’s 4 million Americans suffered from the disease. Today, that number has grown to 5.4 million, and it is projected to afflict 10 million baby boomers. Striving to increase research funding, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) introduced the Making Investments Now for Dementia (MIND) Act. The legislation has bipartisan co-sponsorship including Representatives Chris Smith (R-New Jersey) and Ed Markey (D-Massachusetts), and authorizes the establishment of United States Alzheimer’s Bonds, providing all Americans a way to aid in the search for a cure for this difficult and costly disease. share: f t Burgess Introduces MIND Act to Establish Alzheimer’s Research Bonds “Providing additional avenues of funding that will help bring research funds for Alzheimer’s up to par is crucial so we can work to find a cure for this disease.” Washington, D.C. – When President Reagan announced that he had Alzheimer’s 4 million Americans suffered from the disease. Today, that number has grown to 5.4 million, and it is projected to afflict 10 million baby boomers. Striving to increase research funding, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) introduced the Making Investments Now for Dementia (MIND) Act. The legislation has bipartisan co-sponsorship including Representatives Chris Smith (R-New Jersey) and Ed Markey (D-Massachusetts), and authorizes the establishment of United States Alzheimer’s Bonds, providing all Americans a way to aid in the search for a cure for this difficult and costly disease. “Alzheimer’s is one of the most burdensome diseases facing Americans today,” said Dr. Burgess. “It takes an immense emotional, physical, and financial toll on those diagnosed and their families. There is no cure, yet research funding is not equivalent to other comparable illnesses. Providing additional avenues of funding that will help bring research funds for Alzheimer’s up to par is crucial so we can work to find a cure for this disease.” Alzheimer’s is a very expensive disease costing the United States $172 billion annually, and as more Americans are diagnosed, these costs will only rise. For every dollar that is spent on care, less than a penny is invested in finding a cure. The MIND Act will provide an additional avenue for research funding by establishing issuances of United States Alzheimer’s Bonds. The revenues generated by the sale of the bonds, much like security bonds, would fund the program and be directed to the Director of the National Institutes of Health, solely for Alzheimer’s research. The MIND Act is supported by several individuals and groups determined to find a cure for Alzheimer’s, including: former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, founder of the Center for Health Transformation; Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach, former Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration and former director of the National Cancer Institute; the American Academy of Neurology; the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America; and the Alzheimer's Association. “The MIND Act creates an opportunity to allow all Americans to have an impact and support those personally affected by this disease, while also investing in the long term future of our country’s health,” Speaker Gingrich said. “This is about saving lives and preserving human dignity,” Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach said of the MIND Act. “Neurologists are on the front lines in providing care for the more than five million Americans living with the devastating effects of Alzheimer’s disease and providing counsel to their families and caregivers,” said Robert C. Griggs, MD, FAAN, president of the American Academy of Neurology, the world’s largest association of neurologists with more than 22,500 members. “It is essential that Congress think in innovative ways, as suggested in the MIND Act, to encourage research into the prevention, treatment and cures of neurologic disorders like Alzheimer’s disease.” “Alzheimer’s disease is such a threat to American families that we need to find creative ways to direct as much research into the disease as possible,” states Eric J. Hall, president and founding chief executive officer of the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America (AFA), a nonprofit organization that unites more than 1,600 member organizations nationwide. “Using the ‘war bond’ model of WW II, the MIND Act would offer all Americans the opportunity to invest in the promise of Alzheimer’s disease research funding and impact the future of our aging population.” “By establishing the issuance of United States Alzheimer’s Bonds, we can create an additional source of funding specifically for Alzheimer research at the National Institutes of Health. An advance in Alzheimer research has the potential both to save millions of lives and billions of dollars for the nation’s public health programs,” Robert Egge, Vice President of Public Policy and Advocacy for the Alzheimer’s Association, said of the legislation. Letters of Support: Click here to view the letter from Speaker Newt Gingrich. Click here to view the letter from the American Academy of Neurology. Click here to view the letter from the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America. Click here to view the letter from the Alzheimer’s Association. To view Dr. Burgess’ floor statement on February 8, 2011 regarding the MIND Act click here. ###
02.09.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and Congressman Edolphus “Ed” Towns (NY-10) both recognize that a centerpiece of emergency response can be health care during and post crisis; and in order to strengthen the medical response capability during natural disasters, pandemics, and terrorist attacks have introduced the Dental Emergency Responder Act, H.R. 570. While dentists receive a general medical training background during their professional education, the National Health Security Strategy leaves out dental health facilities and dentists in the emergency response plan. In addition, dental schools have at times been denied the ability to play a role in disaster preparedness. share: f t Bipartisan Legislation Introduced to Expand Federal Disaster Resources “This legislation will allow America to move one step forward in strengthening medical responses.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and Congressman Edolphus “Ed” Towns (NY-10) both recognize that a centerpiece of emergency response can be health care during and post crisis; and in order to strengthen the medical response capability during natural disasters, pandemics, and terrorist attacks have introduced the Dental Emergency Responder Act, H.R. 570. While dentists receive a general medical training background during their professional education, the National Health Security Strategy leaves out dental health facilities and dentists in the emergency response plan. In addition, dental schools have at times been denied the ability to play a role in disaster preparedness. “Dentists and dental schools are a vital part of our health care community, and I’m mystified that a technical oversight has kept them from being included in the emergency response plans,” said Dr. Burgess. “They have the education and resources that can allow them to play a crucial role in assisting in natural disasters, pandemics, or terrorist attacks, and should be given the opportunity to do so. This legislation will allow America to move one step forward in strengthening medical responses.” The Dental Emergency Responder Act would incorporate dentistry by name into the federal disaster response framework. The bill puts no restrictions on mandates on the states, but provides additional resources in planning. Additionally, it would clarify that dentists may be considered voluntary disaster response public health workers and that states can incorporate dentists and dental facilities, at their option, into their planning. “Our government must take advantage of all available resources to provide an effective response in a time of crisis,” Rep. Towns stated. “I am proud to be co-leading the effort to pass the Dental Emergency Responder Act, an initiative that will bring the dental profession into America’s emergency relief efforts. America’s dentists have extensive education, training, and professionalism, but we must do more than merely recognize this fact. We must take advantage of it.” The Dental Emergency Responder Act is deficit neutral and is endorsed by the American Dental Association. “Dentists are fully trained doctors,” said Dr. Raymond Gist, president of the American Dental Association. “With proper preparatory training in disaster response they can be invaluable assets in the community response to both man-made and natural disasters.” ###
02.08.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, members of the Texas congressional delegation, led by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), introduced legislation to repeal language in last summer’s education funding bill that solely discriminates against the state of Texas, and could prevent the Lone Star State from receiving $830 million in federal education funding. share: f t Texas Delegation Introduces Legislation To Repeal Doggett Language That Discriminates Against Texas “Requiring only Texas to meet additional requirements puts Texas schoolchildren at a disadvantage.” Washington, D.C. – Today, members of the Texas congressional delegation, led by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), introduced legislation to repeal language in last summer’s education funding bill that solely discriminates against the state of Texas, and could prevent the Lone Star State from receiving $830 million in federal education funding. The legislation calls to strike the paragraph, written by Congressman Lloyd Doggett (TX-25), which calls for the state of Texas during the fiscal years 2011 to 2013 to maintain state support for elementary and secondary education at a level is that equal to or greater than the percentage provided for fiscal year 2011. This provision places requirements on Texas beyond what all other states are required to make in order to qualify for funding. “Preventing our children and teachers from receiving their share of available funding is unreasonable,” said Dr. Burgess. “The Doggett language must be repealed so that Texans are provided the same opportunities as residents in every other state. Requiring only Texas to meet additional requirements puts Texas schoolchildren at a disadvantage.” Texas Governor Rick Perry also wants to see the Doggett language removed. “It’s time for Congress to eliminate the anti-Texas Doggett Amendment, for the Obama Administration to finally approve the application Texas submitted last September, and for our hardworking teachers and schools to get the $830 million they deserve,” said Governor Rick Perry. “Texas is the only state unfairly singled out for punishment under this bill. I applaud Rep. Burgess and Sen. Hutchison for introducing legislation repealing the anti-Texas amendment and will continue working with congressional Republicans and Democrats to get the $830 million in Education Jobs funds flowing to Texas schools.” Along with the Texas congressional delegation, Dr. Burgess is working with Texas Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn to ensure Texas school children receive this important funding. Senator Hutchison and Senator Cornyn recently introduced Senate Bill 151, Fairness for Texas Schools Act of 2011. "We should all be concerned about how Texas's students and teachers will be affected by legislative language that singled out our state and disadvantaged our schools’ access more than $800 million in education funds. With local school budgets strained to the limit, it is time for Congress to pass Cong. Burgess' bill in the House and my bill in the Senate putting Texas schools on a level playing field and allow our state to be eligible to apply for this education funding just as every other state can," said Senator Hutchison. Texas Republicans joining Dr. Burgess in introducing the legislation are: · Congressman Joe Barton (TX-06) · Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) · Congressman Quico Canseco (TX-23) · Congressman John Carter (TX-31) · Congressman Michael Conaway (TX-11) · Congressman John Culberson (TX-07) · Congressman Blake Farenthold (TX-27) · Congressman Bill Flores (TX-17) · Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) · Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) · Congressman Ralph Hall (TX-04) · Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) · Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) · Congressman Kenny Marchant (TX-24) · Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) · Congressman Randy Neugebauer (TX-19) · Congressman Pete Olson (TX-22) · Congressman Ron Paul (TX-14) · Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) · Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32) · Congressman Lamar Smith (TX-21) · Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) ###
02.06.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement in honor of President Reagan’s 100th Birthday. “Today we recognize a great American, and a great man. Ronald Wilson Reagan made an early impression in the lives of many, including my own. His resolve and humor struck a chord, that still rings in the hearts of many. His presidency came during a time of great trial in our nation’s history, when inflation plagued our country, unemployment hovered close to the double digits, and communism was threatening our very way of life. Through the tough times, Reagan’s vision for the American people had a way of energizing all of us. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement in honor of President Reagan’s 100th Birthday. “Today we recognize a great American, and a great man. Ronald Wilson Reagan made an early impression in the lives of many, including my own. His resolve and humor struck a chord that still rings in the hearts of many. His presidency came during a time of great trial in our nation’s history, when inflation plagued our country, unemployment hovered close to the double digits, and communism was threatening our very way of life. Through the tough times, Reagan’s vision for the American people had a way of energizing all of us. “His inaugural address in 1981 was the first held on the west side of the Capitol, which allowed the monuments on the national mall, and the heroes they commemorate to be audience to his vision. His vision of defending conservative values is something we can all learn from. Former President Reagan will live on in all of our hearts and on this day I am proud to celebrate his life and all his accomplishments for this great country on what would be his 100th birthday.” ###
01.31.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement after Judge Roger Vinson, serving in Pensacola, Florida, ruled key components in the health care law unconstitutional and said that the entire law “must be declared void.” share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement after Judge Roger Vinson, serving in Pensacola, Florida, ruled key components in the health care law unconstitutional and said that the entire law “must be declared void.” “Texas is joined by twenty-six other states to receive this ruling, sending a clear message that the health care law is not good for America. I commend Attorney General Abbott for continuing his efforts and acting on behalf of all Texans. This fight is far from over, and I know Texas will keep fighting this battle. I will continue my work in Washington to repeal the legislation and replace it with legislation that will create a health care system that is focused on patients instead of payments, quality instead of quantity, affordability instead of cheapness, and innovation instead of stagnation.” ###
01.28.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has been reappointed to the Joint Economic Committee (JEC). The JEC is a bicameral Congressional Committee composed of ten members from both the Senate and the House of Representatives. Established by the Employment Act of 1946, its main function is to make a continuing study of matters relating to the US economy. share: f t Burgess Reappointed to Joint Economic Committee “Overseeing economic policies and government spending will allow for review and recommendations to be made that will improve the economy and put Americans back to work.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has been reappointed to the Joint Economic Committee (JEC). The JEC is a bicameral Congressional Committee composed of ten members from both the Senate and the House of Representatives. Established by the Employment Act of 1946, its main function is to make a continuing study of matters relating to the US economy. “Overseeing economic policies and government spending will allow for review and recommendations to be made that will improve the economy and put Americans back to work,” said Burgess. “Health care is a top priority and with medical costs being affected by the new health care law, I will be able to provide perspective on how it will affect care as we move forward.” The Committee holds hearings, performs research and advises members of Congress. "With the economy the number one issue facing our country Dr. Burgess is in a key position to help shape a market-based recovery," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, JEC Vice Chair-designate. "His keen insight into medical costs will be very helpful as we work to repeal and replace ObamaCare with more economically responsible solutions that lower health care costs and increase accessibility for all." ###
01.28.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement about the hostage situation at the JPS Clinic in Fort Worth. “Our biggest concern at this time is for the safety of everyone involved. While we have alerted Capitol Police, our office does not have a direct connection to the situation other than I have a district office located on the same campus. share: f t Burgess Statement on JPS Clinic Hostage Situation Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement about the hostage situation at the JPS Clinic in Fort Worth. “Our biggest concern at this time is for the safety of everyone involved. While we have alerted Capitol Police, our office does not have a direct connection to the situation other than I have a district office located on the same campus. The building is on lockdown as a precaution and we will continue to monitor and work with authorities until the issue is resolved.” ###
01.25.2011	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), introduced legislation that will halt the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) actions in moving forward with a waiver for an increase in ethanol in fuel. Currently, gasoline contains a 10 percent blend wall of ethanol, known as E-10. In October, 2010, the EPA granted a waiver for the allowable amount of ethanol in gasoline to increase to 15 percent, or E-15. The EPA has not released any of its own studies on the matter, and relied entirely on outside studies. share: f t Burgess Wants Pause On The EPA’s Ethanol Waiver “The security of the public’s well-being should be paramount in this case.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), introduced legislation that will halt the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) actions in moving forward with a waiver for an increase in ethanol in fuel. Currently, gasoline contains a 10 percent blend wall of ethanol, known as E-10. In October, 2010, the EPA granted a waiver for the allowable amount of ethanol in gasoline to increase to 15 percent, or E-15. The EPA has not released any of its own studies on the matter, and relied entirely on outside studies. “I questioned Assistant Administrator Gina McCarthy regarding the EPA’s decision to move forward with a waiver for E-15, and was wholly dissatisfied with her responses as to the research EPA has done itself on the safety of increasing to this level of ethanol,” said Burgess. “She deferred entirely to outside groups and to the Department of Energy’s research,” Burgess continued. “Does EPA not employ its own scientists and experts? Is EPA’s position that it is incapable of doing its own research? We’ve already seen that EPA was inept at performing its own ‘climate science’ research.” The EPA originally approved this wavier only for engines in car model years 2007 or newer. However, just a few short months later, the EPA has expanded its approval, now allowing E15 to be used in car model years 2001 and newer. The “Leave Ethanol Volumes at Existing Levels Act”, will allow for a pause before EPA hastily approves any further ethanol in fuel and will allow for more studies to be conducted, and more assurances to be made that an increase in the blend wall for ethanol will be safe. “The security of the public’s well-being should be paramount in this case,” said Burgess. “This is serious business. Car engines, lawn mowers, generators – any engine that uses gasoline, could be potentially at risk for catching fire or having mechanical failure. Moreover, businesses tasked with selling this new gasoline with increased ethanol could face potential lawsuits from consumers who fail to follow posted signs warning them that E-15 should only be used in newer engines.” ###
01.25.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Americans all over the country listened to President Obama’s address this evening. They are eager to hear that the recession is over, that the spending levels will go down, that job creation is on the rise and that our elected officials are listening and are willing to work together to put America back on track. share: f t Burgess Responds to State of the Union Address “The American people want leaders to take action and they want to see results.” Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Americans all over the country listened to President Obama’s address this evening. They are eager to hear that the recession is over, that the spending levels will go down, that job creation is on the rise and that our elected officials are listening and are willing to work together to put America back on track. “While President Obama touched on all these issues, unfortunately we’ve heard this same song from him before. The American people want leaders to take action and they want to see results. The President and Democrats have talked about putting Americans back to work, but have failed in implementing programs to actually do this. It’s hard to believe what the President is selling when he’s promised this in the past and hasn’t delivered. “The House is ready to deliver. We did what the American people made very clear in November by repealing the health care legislation that was signed into law last March. I urge Senator Reid to have this important legislation brought up for a vote in the Senate as the American people deserve to know where their elected officials stand on this issue. President Obama said he is eager to work with us if we have ideas - I have ideas to make health care more affordable and better and I have been and will continue to be willing to meet with him. “As unemployment has grown and stayed above nine percent for twenty months, the American people are past frustration, and need to know that Washington is finally going to pass legislation and focus on projects that will put people back to work. I know the President wants this to happen and I hope that he will work with us to make it happen. “To do this, we must cut spending. While President Obama has asked Congress to increase the debt limit, we must make it clear that spending cuts must come first. When households all across America are seeing where they can save money, Washington must do the same. Today the House took the first step by passing a resolution that would bring the rest of 2011 spending levels for non-defense discretionary programs down to 2008 spending levels. I believe we can even go further than that. “I am committed to moving America forward and to do this we must focus on job creation, cutting spending and listening to the American people. I look forward to working on these issues and I hope the President will work with us to make it happen.” ###
01.24.2011	The Library of Congress has announced its 2011 Summer Teacher Institutes. The five-day institutes are designed to introduce educators to the millions of digitized primary sources available on the Library's Web site. The session will give teachers the tools to use these resources in their classrooms and provide teachers with the opportunity to work with other teachers from across the country and share strategies for effective classroom activities. share: f t Washington, D.C. – The Library of Congress has announced its 2011 Summer Teacher Institutes. The five-day institutes are designed to introduce educators to the millions of digitized primary sources available on the Library's Web site. The session will give teachers the tools to use these resources in their classrooms and provide teachers with the opportunity to work with other teachers from across the country and share strategies for effective classroom activities. There will be seven individual five-day sessions held at the Library of Congress in 2011. Sessions are free and fill up fast. Interested teachers are encouraged to apply as soon as possible, but not later than the February 4 application deadline. The 2011 sessions will be held on the following dates: Session 1: May 23-27 Session 2: June 6-10 Session 3: June 13-17 Session 4: July 11-15 Session 5: July 18-22 Session 6: August 1-5 Session 7: August 8-12 For additional information and to apply for the Summer Teacher Institute, go to: http://www.loc.gov/teachers/professionaldevelopment/teacherinstitute/apply
01.21.2011	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold his first town hall meeting for the 112th Congress. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as health care reform, taxes and spending are expected to be discussed. share: f t Burgess To Hold Hurst Town Hall Meeting “I will be there to listen to the issues that are important to constituents, their families, and our community, and discuss issues currently before the United States Congress.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced that he will hold his first town hall meeting for the 112th Congress. The town hall will provide residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about what is happening in Washington and how legislation will impact North Texans. Issues such as health care reform, taxes and spending are expected to be discussed. “Hearing from my constituents is a crucial part of my job,” said Burgess. “I will be there to listen to the issues that are important to constituents, their families, and our community, and discuss issues currently before the United States Congress.” Hurst Town Hall Meeting Thursday, January 27, 2011 7 pm to 8 pm Tarrant County College-Northeast Campus Student Center, Center Road 828 Harwood Road, Hurst For constituents unable to attend the meeting in person, the town hall is scheduled for live broadcast on Dr. Burgess’ website. For more information on the town hall visit /HurstTownHallMeeting. To read Dr. Burgess’ statement on his commitment to continue public meetings click here. *Persons requiring special accommodations should contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled meeting at 972-434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. ###
01.20.2011	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, introduced H.R. 360, which would fix the loophole that exempts certain staff, as well as Administration officials, from being mandated to participate in the exchanges created by the Democrats’ flawed health care law. The bill has an excess of two dozen original co-sponsors. share: f t WASHINGTON—Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, introduced H.R. 360, which would fix the loophole that exempts certain staff, as well as Administration officials, from being mandated to participate in the exchanges created by the Democrats’ flawed health care law. The bill has an excess of two dozen original co-sponsors. “The inattention to detail in the health care bill that was signed into law last March led to loopholes and errors,” Burgess said. “Regardless, the Democrats’ flawed bill is now the law of the land, and if Americans must abide by the law, no staffer or political leader should be exempted.” On page 157 of the Democrats’ health bill, a provision mandates that members of Congress and their staff purchase insurance within the health insurance exchanges. Unfortunately, the definition of “congressional staff” exempts shared employees, leadership staff, and committee staff. The President, Vice President and Executive Branch political appointees are also curiously exempt from participation in the exchanges. H.R. 360 will have identical legislation introduced in the Senate. Senator Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), as ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee, received committee approval of an amendment in September 2009 to require all congressional staff and members of Congress, without exception, to participate in the health insurance exchanges, along with other Americans. Later, during closed-door reworking of the legislation, majority staff carved out leadership and committee staff from the exchange requirement. Grassley sought to close the loophole with legislation, but the Senate majority rebuffed his efforts. When the Senate reconvenes, Grassley will reintroduce legislation in the Senate to fix the loophole. “Members of Congress should live under the laws they pass for the rest of the country. I thought Congress finally accepted that principle in 1995, when I won enactment of a law that applied 12 civil rights, labor and workplace safety laws to the legislative branch for the first time ever,” Grassley said. “It’s only fair and logical that administration leaders and congressional staff, who fought so hard to overhaul America’s health care system, experience it themselves. If the reforms are as good as promised, then they’ll know it first-hand. If there are problems, public officials will be in a position to really understand the problems, as they should.” Yesterday the House passed H.R. 2 which would repeal the health care law. Until the law is repealed, Dr. Burgess feels that it is important to move forward with closing the loophole. “Yesterday the House passed a repeal of the health care law, but getting it all the way to the White House will be a long road, and we know President Obama will not support it,” said Burgess. “Until there is complete repeal, we must move forward with closing the loopholes and shinning light on the errors that we can. I look forward to House and Senate passage and challenge President Obama to stand in opposition of this loophole fix.” ###
01.19.2011	Today the House voted on H.R. 2, which repeals the health care legislation that was signed into law last March. The legislation passed with a Roll Call vote of 245 to 189. “Health care is a crucial debate and an issue where we all wish to see improvement for the American people,” said Burgess. “The way in which the law was done in the last Congress, quickly, behind closed doors, secret deals, loopholes, drafting errors and allowing federal agencies to be created without Congressional knowledge or oversight, is not the way to achieve meaningful reform.” share: f t Burgess Votes To Repeal Health Care Law “As a doctor and as an American, it is time that we repeal the law that was passed last year and start fresh.” Washington, D.C. – Today the House voted on H.R. 2, which repeals the health care legislation that was signed into law last March. The legislation passed with a Roll Call vote of 245 to 189. “Health care is a crucial debate and an issue where we all wish to see improvement for the American people,” said Burgess. “The way in which the law was done in the last Congress, quickly, behind closed doors, secret deals, loopholes, drafting errors and allowing federal agencies to be created without Congressional knowledge or oversight, is not the way to achieve meaningful reform.” As the Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health and as Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, Dr. Burgess has been at the forefront of health care debate and will continue push for real reform. “As a doctor and as an American, it is time that we repeal the law that was passed last year and start fresh,” Burgess continued. “We need to talk about the real issues at hand: creating a health care system that is focused on patients instead of payments, quality instead of quantity, affordability instead of cheapness, and innovation instead of stagnation. H.R. 2 is but the initial step in this direction.” With H.R. 2 passing the House it will now move to the Senate. “I encourage and hope that Senator Reid will bring this important piece of legislation up for a vote,” said Burgess. “The American people should know where their elected officials stand on repealing the health care law.” Dr. Burgess spoke on the House Floor during the debate in support of the legislation. You can view the video by clicking here. ###
01.11.2011	"In light of the recent tragedy in Tucson involving Representative Giffords, her staff, and community members, I would like to ensure residents of the 26th District of Texas that it has always been, and will continue to be, my commitment to be available to the people I represent. I have done this by holding public meetings and summits, and will continue to hold these important meetings. share: f t Burgess Statement On Commitment To Continue Public Meetings Washington, D.C. – Below is Dr. Burgess’ statement on his commitment to continue to hold public meetings: "In light of the recent tragedy in Tucson involving Representative Giffords, her staff, and community members, I would like to ensure residents of the 26th District of Texas that it has always been, and will continue to be, my commitment to be available to the people I represent. I have done this by holding public meetings and summits, and will continue to hold these important meetings. “I have a commitment to my constituents and staff to make myself available to answer questions, and help you in any way I can. My office policy for constituent events will not change, and I am still committed to ensuring, at every level possible, the safety at these events. It has been our policy to inform and work with local law enforcement at these events in the past. I have no doubt that the professionalism and responsiveness shown by our local law enforcement to cooperate with my office to determine and provide the appropriate level of security will only become more determined in the current environment as we plan for upcoming district activities in the 112th Congress. “While our nation has been shaken, we will persevere. Representative Giffords was doing what she loved when the unspeakable happened, and I know she would not want this vital aspect of serving our constituents to come to a halt. Our job is to serve the people we represent, and this means we have to make ourselves publicly available. The tragic event that took place in Tucson has shaken us all; however, as a public servant it is my job and obligation to not let this unforeseen tragedy stop me from serving and meeting with the people I represent.” ###
01.08.2011	Washington, D.C. - "My thoughts and prayers are with Representative Giffords, her family, her staff and all who have been affected during this heart-wrenching time. I condemn, in the strongest possible terms, the criminal assault." share: f t Washington, D.C. - Below is Dr. Burgess' statement on Representative Giffords: "My thoughts and prayers are with Representative Giffords, her family, her staff and all who have been affected during this heart-wrenching time. I condemn, in the strongest possible terms, the criminal assault." Dr. Burgess and Representative Giffords are co-chairs on the Motorcycle Caucus.
01.07.2011	“I am proud that Mayor Maso and the City of Frisco’s hard work paid off,” said Burgess. “Anytime we can bring a national championship to our area, we all benefit. Our local businesses get more traffic, and people from different parts of the country get to visit a great city in Texas. Tonight’s game brings even more attention to Frisco as Vice President Biden will be in attendance.” share: f t National Championship Comes to North Texas “Anytime we can bring a national championship to our area, we all benefit.” Washington, D.C. – Tonight, the NCAA Division I Football Championship will be held in at the Pizza Hut Park in Frisco. Working to bring this game to Texas began in 2009. The City of Frisco and Mayor Maher Maso have worked hard to bring this football championship game to Texas. The Texas Congressional Delegation showed their support by sending a letter of support to the chair of the NCAA Division I Football Championship Committee in November 2009. “I am proud that Mayor Maso and the City of Frisco’s hard work paid off,” said Burgess. “Anytime we can bring a national championship to our area, we all benefit. Our local businesses get more traffic, and people from different parts of the country get to visit a great city in Texas. Tonight’s game brings even more attention to Frisco as Vice President Biden will be in attendance.” Vice President Biden will attend to cheer on The Delaware Blue Hens as they take on the Eastern Washington Eagles. The game will be held at 6:00 pm at the Pizza Hut Park. Frisco will hold the NCAA Division I Football Championship for the next three years. ###
01.07.2011	“It is important to show my constituents the work I am doing on their behalf, and this is my report to them on the accomplishments we’ve made,” said Burgess. “My office performs a variety of services; everything from drafting legislation to helping constituents work with various federal agencies. I want them to know that I am working hard for North Texans.” share: f t Burgess Releases 2010 Year-End Report “It is important to show my constituents the work I am doing on their behalf.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Dr. Burgess released his 2010 Year-End Report. The report showcases his 2010 legislative work and accomplishments, media communication, constituent services, and correspondence with North Texans. “It is important to show my constituents the work I am doing on their behalf, and this is my report to them on the accomplishments we’ve made,” said Burgess. “My office performs a variety of services; everything from drafting legislation to helping constituents work with various federal agencies. I want them to know that I am working hard for North Texans.” Some of Dr. Burgess’ accomplishments in 2010 include: participating in 47 hearings in the Energy and Commerce Committee, cast 648 votes on the House floor, co-sponsoring 81 bills, responding to over 50,000 inquiries from North Texans, attending 478 events in the District, hosting four summits, 958 articles or blog mentions, 104 radio interviews, and 61 TV interviews. “I have always done my best to represent the residents of the 26th District of Texas,” said Burgess. “I keep my constituents’ interest at the forefront, and will never forget that I am able to serve this great nation because of them. I take their trust in me very seriously, and it is my responsibility to provide them with a report on what we’ve been able to do.” *To view the 2010 Year-End Report visit: /About/Report.htm. **To download the PDF of the report visit: /UploadedFiles/2010_Year_End_Report.pdf ###
01.06.2011	Reps. Joe Barton, R-Texas, Michael Burgess, R-Texas, and Marsha Blackburn, R-Tennessee, joined 12 other Republicans to reintroduced the Better Use of Light Bulbs Act or BULB Act, H.R. 91. The BULB Act repeals Subtitle B of Title III of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which is a de facto ban on the incandescent light bulb. share: f t Republicans lead effort to Repeal Light Bulb Ban WASHINGTON: Reps. Joe Barton, R-Texas, Michael Burgess, R-Texas, and Marsha Blackburn, R-Tennessee, joined 12 other Republicans to reintroduced the Better Use of Light Bulbs Act or BULB Act, H.R. 91. The BULB Act repeals Subtitle B of Title III of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which is a de facto ban on the incandescent light bulb. “This is about more than just energy consumption, it is about personal freedom. Voters sent us a message in November that it is time for politicians and activists in Washington to stop interfering in their lives and manipulating the free market. The light bulb ban is the perfect symbol of that frustration. People don’t want congress dictating what light fixtures they can use,” said Rep. Barton. “Traditional incandescent bulbs are cheap and reliable. Alternatives, including the most common replacement Compact Fluorescent Lights or CFL’s, are more expensive and health hazards - so why force them on the American people? From the health insurance you’re allowed to have, to the car you can drive, to the light bulbs you can buy, Washington is making too many decisions that are better left to you and your family.” “Thousands of American jobs have been shipped overseas as a direct consequence of this light bulb provision in the Democrats’ 2007 energy bill,” Burgess said. “I have stated all along that exposing our citizens to the harmful effects of the mercury contained in CFL light bulbs, which are being manufactured in China, is likely to pose a hazard for years to come. Not only would this bill be better for the environment, but it would be one step to bringing jobs back to America.” Other co-sponsors include: Reps. Todd Akin (R-Missouri), Rob Bishop (R-Utah), Paul Broun (R-Georgia), Ann Marie Buerkle (R-New York), Dan Burton (R-Indiana), Howard Coble (R-North Carolina), Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyoming), Tom McClintock (R-), Ron Paul (R-Texas), Steve Scalise (R-Louisiana), Cliff Stearns (R-Florida), and Don Young (R-Alaska). Alternatives to traditional incandescent bulbs have many drawbacks. They are all considerably more expensive. The most common alternative, compact florescent light bulbs have a number of problems: Most CFLs are not manufactured in the United States. A recent Washington Post story reported that GE is shuttering a plant in Winchester, Va., killing 200 jobs in the process. CFLs contain mercury and have to be disposed of carefully. The amount of mercury in one bulb is enough to contaminate up to 6,000 gallons of water beyond safe drinking levels. The EPA recommends an elaborate cleanup ritual, including throwing away any clothes or bedding that has come in direct contact with the mercury from the bulb. CFLs are not designed to be turned off and on frequently; the lifespan of a CFL may be reduced by up to 85 percent if you switch it off and on a lot. People with certain health conditions can be harmed by CFLs. Reactions range from disabling eczema-like reactions, to light sensitivities that can lead to skin cancer. The Energy Star program warns that CFLs can overheat and smoke.
01.05.2011	“It is an incredible opportunity and honor to serve the people of the 26th District of Texas,” said Burgess. “During my past eight years in Congress, I have never forgotten that my service to this great country is because of the opportunity my constituents have afforded me and I will continue to put the issues facing the people of the 26th District on front line.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D, Sworn into 112th Congress “It is an incredible opportunity and honor to serve the people of the 26th District of Texas.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. was sworn into the 112th Congress. First elected to Congress in 2002, Dr. Burgess has been re-elected every term since. “It is an incredible opportunity and honor to serve the people of the 26th District of Texas,” said Burgess. “During my past eight years in Congress, I have never forgotten that my service to this great country is because of the opportunity my constituents have afforded me and I will continue to put the issues facing the people of the 26th District on front line.” During the 112th Congress, Dr. Burgess will serve as the Vice Chair on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, and will continue to vigorously push health care issues, and cut wasteful federal spending. “I have been, and will continue to be a strong advocate for health care legislation aimed at reducing health care costs, improving choices, reforming liability laws to put the needs of patients first, and ensuring there are enough doctors in the public and private sector to care for America’s patients,” said Burgess. “Putting these important issues and the Medicare physician payment out in front is still my priority, and I will use every resource possible to repeal and replace the disastrous Democratic health care law.” When named Vice Chair, then Speaker-designate John Boehner (R-OH) noted that Dr. Burgess has been at the forefront of the health care debate from the beginning. “Dr. Burgess has been and will continue to be a top leader in the health care debate. As the Vice Chair for the Subcommittee on Health, he will play a vital role ensuring that everything possible is done to repeal and replace the job-killing health care law,” said Boehner. “He will also continue to be committed in advancing reforms that reduce costs, increase patient control, expand choice, and promote cures as the Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus. He’s been here every step of the way in leading legislation that will bring real reform to our health care system, and will continue to do this in his new role.” ###
12.30.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. released the following statement upon learning of the death of the Hon. Tom Vandergriff: “Texas has lost a great public servant. “During his 55 years of public service, Judge Vandergriff served as the first Congressman of the 26th District, was the youngest elected mayor of Arlington, and for 16 years served as Tarrant County judge. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. released the following statement upon learning of the death of the Hon. Tom Vandergriff: “Texas has lost a great public servant. “During his 55 years of public service, Judge Vandergriff served as the first Congressman of the 26th District, was the youngest elected mayor of Arlington, and for 16 years served as Tarrant County judge. “His service to the people of North Texas led to several key developments, such as the creation of Six Flags Over Texas and luring the General Motors Plant and the Texas Rangers to Arlington. This was no small task as it took thirteen years to bring Major League Baseball to North Texas. He played a vital role in shaping the Metroplex as we know it today. “I will always remember those exciting radio broadcasts when Judge Vandergriff was "the voice of the Texas Rangers" in the 1970's. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends. He was a great public servant, and all North Texans are thankful for his service.” # # #
12.17.2010	Right at midnight, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), voted against President Obama’s compromise tax bill that was introduced earlier this month, and comes with a price tag of $858 billion. The bill has an estate tax provision that will be set at thirty-five percent and is not even set to expire for two more years, extends unemployment benefits for thirteen months, provides ethanol subsidies, and makes $11 billion available in energy tax breaks. The legislation comes at the price tag of $858 billion. share: f t Right at midnight, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), voted against President Obama’s compromise tax bill that was introduced earlier this month, and comes with a price tag of $858 billion. The bill has an estate tax provision that will be set at thirty-five percent and is not even set to expire for two more years, extends unemployment benefits for thirteen months, provides ethanol subsidies, and makes $11 billion available in energy tax breaks. “The deal that was made with the Obama administration is only a two year patch. We’ve seen that extending these “patches” simply does not work,” said Burgess. “We’ve patched Medicare, we’ve altered the minimum tax, and yet there has never been any certainty that there will be any long term fixes. If this bill is truly valid it should be able to stand on its own.” While Congressman Burgess does agree with parts of the bill, like extending the existing tax policy, he believes Congress should stop voting on short term fixes, and on legislation that has unreasonable spending. “Our fundamental problem is that we have a bias towards spending and we keep, taxing, taxing, taxing,” said Burgess. “This causes taxes to go up, spending to go up, and the deficit to climb. We’ve seen for the past few years that the stimulus hasn’t helped America dig out of its hole, and adding another $858 billion to the deficit will just leave our children’s children in more debt.” The bill, which was passed in the Senate on December 15, came back to the House for final approval. It passed with a roll call vote of 277 to 148 with 36 Republicans voting against the legislation. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
12.17.2010	Yesterday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), was named Vice Chair on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), the incoming Chairman of the Committee, announced the members who will serve atop the six subcommittees in the 112th Congress. Serving as the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on Health will continue to afford Dr. Burgess to vigorously push health care issues, and cut wasteful federal spending. share: f t Yesterday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), was named Vice Chair on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), the incoming Chairman of the Committee, announced the members who will serve atop the six subcommittees in the 112th Congress. Serving as the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on Health will continue to afford Dr. Burgess to vigorously push health care issues, and cut wasteful federal spending. “During my eight years in Congress I have been a strong advocate for health care legislation aimed at reducing health care costs, improving choices, reforming liability laws to put the needs of patients first, and ensuring there are enough doctors in the public and private sector to care for America’s patients,” said Burgess. “As the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on Health, I will continue to put these important issues and the Medicare physician payment on the front line, and use every resource possible to repeal and replace the disastrous Democratic health care law.” The incoming Chairman named Dr. Burgess as the Vice Chair because of his medical background and legislative experience. “Our top priority in the new Congress at the Energy and Commerce Committee will be repealing the job-killing health care law, and as Vice Chairman of the Health Subcommittee, Congressman Michael Burgess will be at the forefront of our aggressive repeal effort," said Upton. “Dr. Burgess has the legislative expertise and medical background to ensure this administration is held accountable and that Congress pursues constitutional, free-market reforms.” Speaker-designate John Boehner (R-OH) notes that Dr. Burgess has been at the forefront of the health care debate from the beginning. “Dr. Burgess has been and will continue to be a top leader in the health care debate. As the Vice Chair for the Subcommittee on Health, he will play a vital role ensuring that everything possible is done to repeal and replace the job-killing health care law,” said Boehner. “He will also continue to be committed in advancing reforms that reduce costs, increase patient control, expand choice, and promote cures as the Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus. He’s been here every step of the way in leading legislation that will bring real reform to our health care system, and will continue to do this in his new role.” Congressman Burgess will serve on the Committee with Congressman Joe Pitts (R-PA), who was named the Subcommittee’s Chair. “We are ready to take health care head on and will work together vigorously to keep the health care debate at the top,” said Burgess. “Americans made it very clear that the health care legislation that was passed this year was not the bill they wanted. I vowed to the American people that I would do all I could to rescue them from the consequences of this historic example of Congressional malpractice. This is an important step in that direction.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
12.16.2010	Due to the last-minute announcement in the House of Representatives that a vote on major tax legislation would be before the House on Wednesday December 15, and Thursday, December 16, Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) was unable to travel to Austin to attend the Sunset Commission’s hearing regarding the Commission’s review of both the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and the Texas Railroad Commission. Below is his written testimony for the Commission. share: f t Due to the last-minute announcement in the House of Representatives that a vote on major tax legislation would be before the House on Wednesday December 15, and Thursday, December 16, Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) was unable to travel to Austin to attend the Sunset Commission’s hearing regarding the Commission’s review of both the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and the Texas Railroad Commission. Below is his written testimony for the Commission. The Sunset Commission has a long history of reviewing state agencies with the purpose of improving their operations, and keeping them accountable to the people they represent. If the federal government had such a system, we might not experience some of the problems we are seeing with runaway bureaucrats exercising unchecked powers. The federal Environmental Protection Agency’s actions are the first that come to mind – and if we have to keep the EPA in check we are required to have functioning and vigilant state agencies. In plain language, I will say to both agencies what my constituents have been trying to impress upon them for the past several years: Do Your Job! Both the TCEQ and the Railroad Commission need to step it up. If they can’t or won’t do their authorized jobs of protecting the people, then it’s only too clear the federal government is ready to step in and take over. The bottom line is, someone must do this oversight, and if our state agencies won’t, federal agencies will. I am here today with the hope that this Commission will provide the necessary guidance and suggest the proper changes to prevent federal agencies from overstepping their authority and preempting state actions. Too many times over the past few years we have seen overly ambitious federal bureaucrats attempt to step on the toes of state agencies, knowing full well those state agencies are in a better position to assist the residents of this state than any federal bureaucrat ever could be. But the continued inattention of the TCEQ and the Railroad Commission seem to be driving this. If the state regulators are slow to act – or worse, totally dismissive of citizen concerns – where else can they turn but the federal agency? The burgeoning natural gas industry in the Barnett Shale region is the perfect example of this. There is no doubt; the TCEQ and the Railroad Commission have experienced growing pains in dealing with the exponentially expanding business of drilling for natural gas, specifically in North Texas. It would be hard to find a resident in North Texas who is unaware of the issues local residents and elected officials have had with TCEQ and the Railroad Commission. In April of last spring, media reports that TCEQ had failed to brief elected officials on certain air quality test results updates left me especially disturbed. I was one of the elected officials originally briefed on the results from the Fort Worth area. I specifically asked TCEQ staff at that time whether there were any “red flags” with the data and was told there were none. Subsequent to the reports of TCEQ’s internal audit, I spoke with Commissioner Shaw and other officials at TCEQ. I believe TCEQ has since made a concerted effort to make better outreach to officials and the public on their testing results, but there is no doubt that more must be done. There is no doubt that their credibility suffered significantly in this process. In the wake of the increased monitoring of air quality in the Barnett Region, TCEQ instituted a page on their official website to relay up-to-the-minute monitoring results. However, the information is provided in raw-data form, precluding many residents from understanding the full impacts of the data. Providing explanations of what the data means, and in terms average citizens can understand, would go a long way in addressing residents’ fears. People want to be told the truth – good or bad – as to what chemicals are in and around their daily lives. TCEQ and the Railroad Commission owe it to the public to give them all the information, and let them decide what is best for them and their families. As I stated in my written recommendations, TCEQ should hold regular town hall and informational meetings in neighborhoods across North Texas where drilling activity has increased. Having TCEQ officials in regular contact with the residents they are charged with protecting will provide a perspective not always attainable in government offices where most regulations are enforced. Here’s the deal: TCEQ must show that it is accountable to the citizens of the state – not an apologist for the industry it is purported to regulate. Moreover, my office, and I know many of my constituents, have been discouraged in trying to discern exactly which agency - the TCEQ or the Railroad Commission - is the proper regulator for certain issues. Historically, there were sound reasons to divide up oversight of the oil and gas industry into two separate regulatory bodies. I support the continued existence of both agencies. However, more must be done to assist residents and local officials in discerning which office in which agency can help with their problem. I recommend creating a liaison or ombudsman office where citizens can go and be directed to the proper regulator who can help with their individual issue – and to provide thorough follow-up until the situation is resolved. Further, we are all aware of looming budget concerns in the upcoming state legislative session. I strongly urge the Legislature to use caution before reducing the budgets of either the TCEQ or the Railroad Commission, given the oil and gas industry’s increased activity throughout the state. This activity comes closer and closer to neighborhoods and schools every day. These agencies are tasked with protecting the health and well-being of every person, and we cannot constrain their efforts by failing to provide sufficient resources. I would recommend, before any significant cuts are made, that legislators look to restructure the fee schedule for operators in the Barnett Shale region and elsewhere – increasing the cost of penalties and citations. Increasing fees paid by bad actors in the community will not only provide greater funding for the agency, but will also deter behavior that is putting our neighbors at risk for serious health conditions. In reviewing the Commission’s staff reports of both the TCEQ and Railroad Commission, I am concerned that, as the report stated in the case of the Railroad Commission: “While the estimated $186 billion oil and gas industry makes a significant contribution to the State, the Commission relies on General Revenue to fund almost half of its more than $50 million budget for this industry’s oversight.” Funding streams for both agencies must be updated to reflect the industry’s increased presence in the state. New funding should not be taken from the General Revenue Fund, and the industry should fund, through fees and penalties imposed, the proper oversight necessary for this activity to continue. Stories in the media are becoming all too common of the federal government coming into Texas and preempting state agencies on a number of issues. Just recently, the federal EPA announced it would be taking over the case of two houses in Parker County where natural gas is suspected to be in the residents’ water supply. The federal government will never know better than our own state government how best to protect our communities. And yet it seems as if the dismissive attitude of the Railroad Commission necessitated this intervention. We must give the TCEQ and the Railroad Commission every tool they need to do their jobs so that federal bureaucrats cannot overstep their authority and usurp our state agencies’ role. And we must demand of the state agencies that they do their job. I hope this testimony will underscore just how serious a matter proper regulatory involvement and oversight has become in my District in North Texas. Residents are rightly concerned about the air they are breathing and the water they are drinking and ensuring both are safe. We must get this right – we are talking about people’s lives. I have submitted a separate letter to the Commission, which I have also posted on my congressional website, explaining my concerns in further detail. I look forward to working with the Commission and the entire State Legislature to make sure this gets done right. To read the testimony in a PDF, click here. To read the letter from Congressman Burgess to the Chairman and Vice Chairman on his absence, click here.
12.14.2010	Two times each month, Congressman Burgess' staff visits Cooke County for “Community Office Hours.” Generally, staff is in Gainesville at City Hall on the 2nd Monday of each month and in Lake Kiowa, Callisburg or Oak Ridge on the 4th Monday of each month (allowing a quarterly staff visit to each of these cities in addition to a monthly visit to Gainesville.) Community Office Hours are held 9:00-11:00 AM on the posted dates. share: f t Two times each month, Congressman Burgess' staff visits Cooke County for “Community Office Hours.” Generally, staff is in Gainesville at City Hall on the 2nd Monday of each month and in Lake Kiowa, Callisburg or Oak Ridge on the 4th Monday of each month (allowing a quarterly staff visit to each of these cities in addition to a monthly visit to Gainesville.) Community Office Hours are held 9:00-11:00 AM on the posted dates. Note: If a federal holiday occurs on a scheduled Monday date, Community Office Hours will be held the following day on Tuesday. Other dates may be adjusted to accommodate facility scheduling needs; consult the posted schedule to confirm dates. Representatives of Congressman Burgess’ office are available to assist individuals with claims related to various federal agencies or take direct comments from constituents on local or national concerns. Occasionally, as his legislative schedule allows, Congressman Burgess may be present at these meetings. If you have questions regarding an upcoming visit, please contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator, in the Lewisville District office by phone at 972-434-9700 or email to robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. 2011 Dates: Gainesville Gainesville City Hall Conference Room 200 South Rusk Gainesville, TX 76240 Monday, January 10 Monday, February 14 Monday, March 14 Monday, April 11 Wednesday, May 11 Monday, June 13 Monday, July 11 Monday, August 8 Monday, September 12 Tues., October 11 Monday, November 14 Monday, December 12 Lake Kiowa Lake Kiowa Lodge Southwest Room 905 Kiowa Drive West Lake Kiowa, TX 76240 Monday, January 24 Monday, April 25 Monday, July 25 Monday, October 24 Callisburg Callisburg Community Club McDaniel Street (adjacent to City Hall) 59 Campbell Street Callisburg, TX 76240 Monday, February 28 Monday, May 23 Monday, August 22 Monday, November 28 Oak Ridge Oak Ridge Town Hall Town Council Chambers 129 Oak Ridge Drive Gainesville, TX 76240 Monday, March 28 Monday, June 27 Monday, September 26
12.07.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), sent a letter to Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intellignece, Silvestre Reyes, requesting a Member-only briefing on the recent release of classified information by the website WikiLeaks. "Despite the grave nature of these leaks, no information has been given to Members of Congress regarding this issue. As lawmakers who will be setting intelligence policy and will need to review whether laws governing the classification procedure need to be updated in light of these leaks, Members must be given access to the full story surrounding this issue. Issues of such importance to national security cannot be taken lightly." share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), sent a letter to Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intellignece, Silvestre Reyes, requesting a Member-only briefing on the recent release of classified information by the website WikiLeaks. "Despite the grave nature of these leaks, no information has been given to Members of Congress regarding this issue. As lawmakers who will be setting intelligence policy and will need to review whether laws governing the classification procedure need to be updated in light of these leaks, Members must be given access to the full story surrounding this issue. Issues of such importance to national security cannot be taken lightly." To read the full letter, click here. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
12.03.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement on the November jobs report released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics today: “Uncertainty does not create jobs; if it did then we would be well on our way to recovery. Today’s announcement of 9.8% unemployment rate, an increase since last month, is a sobering realization... share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement on the November jobs report released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics today: “Uncertainty does not create jobs; if it did then we would be well on our way to recovery. Today’s announcement of 9.8% unemployment rate, an increase since last month, is a sobering realization that the policies of the last two years have not worked. Americans are tired of the continued promises of improvement with no visible results. Out of control federal spending and uncertainties due to impending tax increases have caused employers to refrain from hiring. How desperate do Americans on Main Street have to get before Democrats wake-up and realize their job-killing agenda can go no further? We need to take proactive steps to actually create jobs for the millions who are unemployed. The best way to encourage companies to hire is to create certainty. Businesses need to know what their tax rates will be next year. Blocking new ill-conceived health care regulations – responsible for over 40% increases in healthcare premiums in some markets – would go a long way in helping businesses feel comfortable enough to begin hiring again Extending all of the current tax rates, and less government interference, is the solution that constituents have told me they want and I agree. So let’s break the cycle of unemployment, turn around the economy, and put Americans back to work.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
11.30.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), sent a letter to the Texas Sunset Advisory Commission regarding its findings on the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and the Railroad Commission of Texas (RRC). "The interconnectedness and often overlapping roles of both the TCEQ and the RRC surrounding regulating and overseeing the exploration and development of natural gas production has led to much frustration within the communities of North Texas," Burgess said. " With the increased activity of oil and gas drilling in urban, residential areas, the role of the TCEQ and the RRC has never been more critical. Ensuring the success of both of these agencies must be the priority of every elected official in this state." share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), sent a letter to the Texas Sunset Advisory Commission regarding its findings on the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and the Railroad Commission of Texas (RRC). "The interconnectedness and often overlapping roles of both the TCEQ and the RRC surrounding regulating and overseeing the exploration and development of natural gas production has led to much frustration within the communities of North Texas," Burgess said. " With the increased activity of oil and gas drilling in urban, residential areas, the role of the TCEQ and the RRC has never been more critical. Ensuring the success of both of these agencies must be the priority of every elected official in this state." To read the full letter, click here.
11.24.2010	Over 300 years ago a determined group of people in search of greater freedoms came to the new world. Their struggles and triumphs set the stage for the founding of this great country. On this Thanksgiving, it is important we remember and give thanks for the liberties and opportunities available in America. I am thankful and honored to live in this great country and serve the constituents of the 26th District of Texas in the United States Congress. This year, on behalf of myself, my family and my staff, I want to wish you all a happy and safe holiday, and God Bless America. share: f t Over 300 years ago a determined group of people in search of greater freedoms came to the new world. Their struggles and triumphs set the stage for the founding of this great country. On this Thanksgiving, it is important we remember and give thanks for the liberties and opportunities available in America. I am thankful and honored to live in this great country and serve the constituents of the 26th District of Texas in the United States Congress. This year, on behalf of myself, my family and my staff, I want to wish you all a happy and safe holiday, and God Bless America.
11.18.2010	Congressman Burgess and TxDOT Commissioner, Fred Underwood, will be hosting the Eighth Annual Transportation Summit. The event will take place Monday, November 29 at 8:00am at the Hurst Conference Center. share: f t Congressman Burgess and TxDOT Commissioner, Fred Underwood, will be hosting the Eighth Annual Transportation Summit. The event will take place Monday, November 29 at 8:00am at the Hurst Conference Center. Details are below. Monday,November 29, 2010 8:00-11:30 AM Hurst Conference Center 1601 Campus Drive, Hurst, TX 76054 Federal Keynote Speaker: U.S. Congressman John Mica (FL-7) Ranking Member, U.S House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee State Keynote Speaker: Senator Tommy Williams (TX-District 4) Chairman, Senate Transportation & Homeland Security Committee Registration Information: Register online at: https://tti.tamu.edu/conferences/ts10/ Participant Registration Fee: Continental breakfast included. $20 – Early Registration (until 5:00 p.m. on Monday, November 22, 2010) $25 – On-site Registration For more information, contact: Robin Vaughan, District Administrator Office of Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Phone: 972-434-9700 Email: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov
11.18.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), sent a letter to President Obama regarding the increase in violence along the Texas border, and the President’s decision to withdraw troops sooner than previously indicated despite an increase in violence. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), sent a letter to President Obama regarding the increase in violence along the Texas border, and the President’s decision to withdraw troops sooner than previously indicated despite an increase in violence. "Considering this increase in violence it is incomprehensible that less than 6 months after their deployment to the Southern Border, your Administration is recalling the National Guard forces under your Southwest Border Augmentation Plan. According to this plan, the 286 Texas National Guard members currently stationed along the border will be sent home by the end of February 2011. Further, this unilateral decision was made without the input of any of the states which share a border with Mexico. At a minimum, your Administration should honor the commitment you originally made to keep these troops in place for one year, redeploying them no sooner than July 2011." To read the letter Congressman Burgess sent to President Obama, click here.
11.11.2010	This year more than ever as citizens exercised their right to vote in record numbers – a right fought for and died for by millions of current and former service members. We must all pause from the distracions of our own lives and reflect on the sacrifices made by those men and women who have served our country and their families. There is no greater selfless act than to fight for one’s own country. The freedoms we have we owe to veterans. Today is their day.
11.09.2010	Monday, the White House’s National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill issued preliminary technical conclusions concerning factors contributing to the blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon exploratory rig this past April 20. Notably, the Commission staff investigators report there is “no evidence at this time to suggest there was a conscious decision to sacrifice safety concerns to save money.” While this finding has generated a lot of news coverage, it should be noted that the finding alone, if it is borne out, is not the whole story surrounding the planning and decisions that contributed to the tragic incident. It is my hope Congress continues to investigate this matter until we can be sure the American public has the full story.
11.09.2010	Lewisville, TX – Today U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville) recognized the five veterans who received this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC was created six years ago to honor the distinguished living veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. Nominations were received from the community, veterans organizations and civic groups. This year’s commendations were presented at the eighth annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association and the City of Highland Village. The five recipients of this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation are: • Major Lee Roy Keith, U.S. Marine Corps (Denton) • Sergeant Arlen Ray Mayfield, Jr., U.S. Army (Lewisville) • Master Sergeant Guy Northrup, U.S. Marine Corps(Lewisville) • Colonel Larry Patterson, U.S. Army (Highland Village) • Major Richard Stewart , U.S. Army/U.S. Air Force ( Denton) “Five extraordinary individuals were selected to receive the 2010 Congressional Veteran Commendation,” said Rep. Burgess. “They served in the Armed Forces of the United States with distinction and continued their dedication to the nation by striving tirelessly on behalf of their fellow veterans and serving the people in their communities. “While we have singled out these veterans for recognition today, I want to extend my deepest appreciation to all veterans for your service to the United States of America,” Rep. Burgess remarked to the approximate 250 luncheon attendees. “On behalf of the citizens of the 26th District and of a grateful nation, we are forever in your debt.”
10.25.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, will host an economic forum on the state of the economy, titled “North Texas Economic Recovery Outlook: Impact of Government Policy on Small Business.” The forum will take place this Friday, October 29, in Lewisville. The forum will bring together policymakers, including Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands), the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, and local economic experts and business owners to discuss the state of business in North Texas. “It’s been a tough couple of years for lots of folks in North Texas, and we hope to hear from small business owners so that we can assess the challenges you face, and craft policy that will help you boost employment and wages to help get our economy back on track,” Burgess said. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, will host an economic forum on the state of the economy, titled “North Texas Economic Recovery Outlook: Impact of Government Policy on Small Business.” The forum will take place this Friday, October 29, in Lewisville. The forum will bring together policymakers, including Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands), the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, and local economic experts and business owners to discuss the state of business in North Texas. “It’s been a tough couple of years for lots of folks in North Texas, and we hope to hear from small business owners so that we can assess the challenges you face, and craft policy that will help you boost employment and wages to help get our economy back on track,” Burgess said. The forum’s discussion will include what impact federal policies are having on business, how government policies can actually help businesses grow, and any other proactive steps the government can take to help improve our nation’s economy. WHAT: 26th District State of the Economy Forum: “North Texas Economic Recovery Outlook: Impact of Government Policy on Small Business” WHEN: Friday, October 29, 2010, 2:00 - 3:30 PM WHERE: LISD William T. Bolin Administrative Center, Board Room 1565 W. Main Street Lewisville, TX 75067 WHO: U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-The Woodlands), Senior House Republican, Joint Economic Committee Richard Fisher, President & CEO, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Cynthia Blankenship, Bank of the West Carol Longacre, Longacre Construction/ Homebuilders Association of Greater Dallas Robert Gavitt, Owner, Domino’s Pizza Franchisee For more information, contact Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville District Office at 972-434-9700. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.19.2010	Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), today received a welcomed response from Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-California) regarding a information Ranking Member Burgess attempted to enter into the Committee's official record, but was prevented from doing so by Subcommittee Chairman Bart Stupak (D-Michigan). On October 15, Ranking Member Burgess wrote to Chairman Waxman expressing his concern over the incident, which occurred during a September 22 subcommittee hearing, when Ranking Member Burgess was prevented from entering information into the Committee record. Ranking Member Burgess wrote "I would like to express my concern that this incident did not reflect a cooperative, bipartisan, and respectful manner and was not in keeping with the traditions of the Committee. share: f t Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), today received a welcomed response from Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-California) regarding a information Ranking Member Burgess attempted to enter into the Committee's official record, but was prevented from doing so by Subcommittee Chairman Bart Stupak (D-Michigan). On October 15, Ranking Member Burgess wrote to Chairman Waxman expressing his concern over the incident, which occurred during a September 22 subcommittee hearing, when Ranking Member Burgess was prevented from entering information into the Committee record. Ranking Member Burgess wrote "I would like to express my concern that this incident did not reflect a cooperative, bipartisan, and respectful manner and was not in keeping with the traditions of the Committee. My purpose in writing is for the Committee to work together to ensure such an incident does not arise again. Ranking Member Burgess went on to say "We occurred at this hearing should not create a precedent. I hope that...courtesy, respect, and civility are the touchstones for the conduct of Committee hearings." On October 18, Chairman Waxman responded to Ranking Member Burgess letters, saying "After receiving your letter, I reviewed the transcript of the hearing...I agree with you that you should have been able to insert the statement into the hearing record...I will make sure that the Senator's statement is made part of the official record of the hearing." To view the video of the dispute, click here. To view the full text of Ranking Member Burgess' October 15 letter, click here. To view the full text of Chairman Waxman's October 18 letter, click here. Background: During a September 22 Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing, Ranking Member Burgess attempted to read a statement from Senator Tom Coburn regarding the Senate's inaction on food safety legislation. Earlier in the hearing several Democrat Committee Members mentioned Senator Coburn and blamed him for the Senate's inaction, and Ranking Member Burgess wanted to insert a statement from Senator Coburn into the record, so that both arguments would be represented. Subcommittee Chairman Stupak first rejected Burgess' request for unanimous consent to insert the statement into the record. Later in the hearing, Ranking Member Burgess chose to use the remaining 30 seconds of his allotted time to read the statement, so it would be in the record. Chairman Stupak repeatedly interrupted Ranking Member Burgess so the statement could not be read, and then turned his microphone off. Later that day, Ranking Member Burgess released the following statement on the dispute: “It is very unfortunate that the Majority chose to turn today’s hearing on a bipartisan food safety issue into a vicious coordinated character assassination on Senator Tom Coburn. Even more appalling was the Majority's refusal to allow the other side of the issue to be aired. It was never my intention to use today’s hearing for political purposes, but I could not stand by and allow misleading statements to go unanswered. “After I used the first portion of my 5 minutes to question the first panel of witnesses, I chose to spend the last 40 seconds reading a statement from Senator Coburn to set the record straight and present the opposing view to the Majority’s attack. Chairman Stupak immediately interrupted me, and then he turned my microphone off, not allowing me to finish. “Never before have I witnessed a Member of this Committee being censored in this fashion. “The Food Safety bill is strong, bipartisan legislation that I support and worked on extensively with the Majority. It is my hope that the Senate can resolve any issues promptly so this bill can be brought to the Senate floor and passed as soon as possible.” Below is the full text of Senator Coburn’s statement that Burgess attempted to read in today’s subcommittee hearing: Dr. Coburn Encourages Reid to Bring Food Safety Bill to the Floor Sep 16 2010 (WASHINGTON, D.C.) – U.S. Senator Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK) released the following statement today encouraging Majority Leader Reid to bring food safety legislation to the floor of the Senate for a full and open debate. “If Majority Leader Reid believes this legislation is a matter of life and death he should bring it to the floor immediately for a full and open debate. As Majority Leader, he sets the schedule. I do not. His claim that I am blocking the Senate from considering the bill is false, and he knows it is false,” Dr. Coburn said. “The Majority Leader also knows that one of my concerns with the bill is that it is not paid for. Unfortunately, he has refused to even discuss ways to pay for the bill by reducing spending on lower priority items. With our national debt at $13.5 trillion we simply can’t continue to borrow and spend without restraint. The American people should question the competence of any member of Congress who can’t find $1.4 billion of waste in a $3.5 trillion budget that could be cut to pay for improved food safety. “Finally, I don’t question the Majority Leader’s commitment to safe food even if he does not extend the same courtesy to me. However, as a practicing physician, I am not impressed with public health lectures from career politicians who have little real world experience in any field, much less health-related fields. If the Majority Leader wants the bill to advance he should pay for it. If he doesn’t want to pay for it, he should then bring it to the floor and explain to the American people why he can’t cut a penny of wasteful Washington spending to pay for a bill he says is a matter of life and death,” Dr. Coburn said. ### Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.09.2010	UPDATED 10-13-2010 - Burgess writes to President Obama supporting his appeal for a federal disaster declaration and assistance for 13 counties affected by Tropical Storm Hermine. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) released the following statement after learning that the Obama Administration had denied Governor Rick Perry's request to grant a disaster declaration for thirteen Texas counties damaged by Tropical Storm Hermine: “I am disappointed that the Obama Administration has refused to offer Texans the needed disaster declaration and assistance. Tropical Storm Hermine caused eight deaths, widespread flooding leading to more than 100 high water rescues, over 100 residences were destroyed and thousands of citizens were without water and electricity. This storm left behind a disaster – there is no doubt, and it is the responsibility of the federal government to aid the state and counties in clean-up and repairing the damage the storm caused. The fact that the federal government sent $18 million in social security checks to dead people but refuses to help Texas with the damage caused by Tropical Storm Hermine is outrageous.” share: f t UPDATED 10-13-2010 - Burgess writes to President Obama supporting his appeal for a federal disaster declaration and assistance for 13 counties affected by Tropical Storm Hermine. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) released the following statement after learning that the Obama Administration had denied Governor Rick Perry's request to grant a disaster declaration for thirteen Texas counties damaged by Tropical Storm Hermine: “I am disappointed that the Obama Administration has refused to offer Texans the needed disaster declaration and assistance. Tropical Storm Hermine caused eight deaths, widespread flooding leading to more than 100 high water rescues, over 100 residences were destroyed and thousands of citizens were without water and electricity. This storm left behind a disaster – there is no doubt, and it is the responsibility of the federal government to aid the state and counties in clean-up and repairing the damage the storm caused. The fact that the federal government sent $18 million in social security checks to dead people but refuses to help Texas with the damage caused by Tropical Storm Hermine is outrageous.” Background: In early September Tropical Storm Hermine made landfall in Texas and caused widespread damage, which included flooding, property damage to private property as well as roads and bridges, and resulted in eight deaths. On September 20, Governor Perry wrote to President Obama asking him to issue a disaster declaration for thirteen Texas counties. The declaration would make storm victims eligible for federal disaster funding to help with recovery and rebuilding efforts. On October 6, the Members of Congress whose districts were affected by Tropical Storm Hermine – Rep. Joe Barton (R-Arlington), Rep. Michael Burgess (R-Lewisville), Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Austin), Rep. Kay Granger (R-Ft. Worth), Rep. Kenny Marchant (R-Coppell) and Rep. Lamar Smith (R-San Antonio) - sent a letter to President Obama supporting Governor Perry’s request for a federal disaster declaration for the thirteen affected Texas counties. The thirteen counties are: Bell, Blanco, Cameron, Coryell, Denton, Hill, Jim Wells, Johnson, Medina, Tarrant, Travis, Willacy and Williamson counties as state disaster areas. On October 8, Governor Perry heard back from FEMA denying his requested for a federal disaster declaration for the thirteen Texas counties.
10.08.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement on the September jobs report released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics today: “For yet another month, job growth remained stagnant and the number of unemployed remained high. While the private sector did add jobs last month, which I am pleased to see, that growth was very modest, and overall the economy lost 95,000 jobs while the unemployment rate remained at 9.6 percent. For minorities and young people, the situation is even worse – proof once again that the Democrats’ big-government big-spending policies are not working. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement on the September jobs report released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics today: “For yet another month, job growth remained stagnant and the number of unemployed remained high. While the private sector did add jobs last month, which I am pleased to see, that growth was very modest, and overall the economy lost 95,000 jobs while the unemployment rate remained at 9.6 percent. For minorities and young people, the situation is even worse – proof once again that the Democrats’ big-government big-spending policies are not working. “American businesses need stability in order to feel comfortable expanding and hiring more workers, and the Democratic leadership in Washington is not providing this needed certainty. The health care law and proposed cap and trade will only raise costs, and regulatory reform places more burden and restrictions on businesses. Further, because of Democrats’ refusal to have a vote on tax policy, taxes for the majority of small businesses could soon increase, and every single American has no idea how much in federal taxes they will pay next year. This is unacceptable. “I am also disappointed that the Joint Economic Committee is not holding its monthly jobs hearing. For too long Democrats have focused on ramming through their liberal agenda with no regard for the effect this will have on jobs – and Americans are concerned about jobs. At the same time that they have spent trillions of dollars supposedly trying to create jobs, in reality their policies have substantially slowed the pace of growth and killed American jobs. It’s time for Congress to get serious about helping our economy get back on track – repeal health care reform, make current tax policy permanent, and get out of the way so American ingenuity can lead us out of this economic mess that Democrats have only made worse.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.07.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) released the following statement after a U.S. District Court Judge in Michigan ruled today that health care's individual mandate, requiring Americans to purchase health care insurance, is not unconstitutional: “If the Commerce Clause can be used to implement an individual mandate and be considered Constitutional, then there is no limit to what the federal government can force Americans to do or purchase. If allowed, this would be the most far-reaching infringement on our right as Americans to liberty in the history of our country, and gives a green light to any and all future Washington-knows-best policies the Democrats may try to ram down our throats. This is obviously not the last work on this subject. Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott is leading the fight against this unconstitutional provision, along with a bipartisan group of 19 other state Attorneys General and the State of Virginia. I’m confident they will prevail in defeating the unconstitutional individual mandate and voiding the entire statute.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) released the following statement after a U.S. District Court Judge in Michigan ruled today that health care's individual mandate, requiring Americans to purchase health care insurance, is not unconstitutional: “If the Commerce Clause can be used to implement an individual mandate and be considered Constitutional, then there is no limit to what the federal government can force Americans to do or purchase. If allowed, this would be the most far-reaching infringement on our right as Americans to liberty in the history of our country, and gives a green light to any and all future Washington-knows-best policies the Democrats may try to ram down our throats. This is obviously not the last word on this subject. Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott is leading the fight against this unconstitutional provision, along with a bipartisan group of 19 other state Attorneys General and the State of Virginia. I’m confident they will prevail in defeating the unconstitutional individual mandate and voiding the entire statute.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.30.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) praised passage of three bills he has introduced in the House of Representatives this week. All three pieces of legislation – HR 1362, HR 5354, and HR 5462 – passed unanimously just as Congress adjourned. HR 1362, the National Neurological Diseases Surveillance System Act, would direct the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to create a national surveillance program on neurological diseases, such as MS and Parkinson’s. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional MS Caucus, I firmly believe a national surveillance system would allow for future planning of health care needs, detect changes in health practices, promote advocacy, and support a wide range of research initiatives. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) praised passage of three bills he has introduced in the House of Representatives this week. All three pieces of legislation – HR 1362, HR 5354, and HR 5462 – passed unanimously just as Congress adjourned. HR 1362, the National Neurological Diseases Surveillance System Act, would direct the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to create a national surveillance program on neurological diseases, such as MS and Parkinson’s. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional MS Caucus, I firmly believe a national surveillance system would allow for future planning of health care needs, detect changes in health practices, promote advocacy, and support a wide range of research initiatives. The House of Representatives recognized this important need and passed legislation to address it,” Burgess said. “Surveillance activities similar to this exist for other diseases, but currently not for neurological diseases. A coordinated approach to data collection would allow researchers and physicians to be able to identify at-risk populations, diagnose earlier, and ultimately, find common factors that will lead to cures.” HR 5354, the Gestational Diabetes Act, also directs CDC to collect and study data on gestational diabetes and associated risk factors to learn more about what causes the disease and identify prevention strategies. “During my 25-year medical practice as an obstetrician I saw far too many expectant mothers and newborn babies affected by gestational diabetes. This is a preventable disease, and patients will benefit from additional knowledge. It was important that the House of Representatives provide this level of attention,” Burgess said. “The statistics speak for themselves – mothers diagnosed with gestational diabetes are more likely to develop Type 2 diabetes, and their children are at an increased risk not only for diabetes but other pre-natal complications as well. This bill will improve detection and lead to more effective preventative measures that will reduce clinical costs for the patients as well as the states.” HR 5462, the Birth Defects Prevention, Risk Reduction, and Awareness Act, would help provide critical information to pregnant and breast-feeding women and their health care providers about medications, chemical exposures, infections and other exposures linked to birth defects. Health risks to a breastfed infant through a grant program will revitalize the national network of pregnancy risk information services, such as the service available in North Texas. “By passing this legislation, the House has taken an important step in ensuring expectant and new mothers have the information necessary, in consultation with their doctors, about how to ensure a safe and healthy pregnancy for both the mother and child. While practicing obstetrics in North Texas, I encountered many expectant mothers who had questions and concerns about risks to their unborn child. Far too often a simple lack of education and information led to women making incorrect decisions regarding something like taking a needed medication” Burgess said. “Many of the issues that arise from this lack of information are preventable, so we must make sure pregnant or breast-feeding women have access to services and education to ensure a healthy pregnancy and a healthy baby, and with House passage of this bill, we are one step closer to that goal.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.23.2010	Striving to increase funding for research for Alzheimer’s, the seventh leading cause of death in the United States, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) last night introduced H.R. 6169, the Making Investments Now for Dementia (MIND) Act. The legislation authorizes the establishment of United States Alzheimer’s Bonds, providing all Americans a way to aid in the search for a cure for this difficult and costly disease. “Alzheimer’s disease is one of the most burdensome diseases facing Americans today, taking an immense emotional, physical, and financial toll on those affected. There is no cure, yet research funding is not equivalent to other comparable illnesses,” Burgess said. “It is important that additional avenues of funding are designated, and the MIND Act will help bring research funds for Alzheimer’s up to par, so we can work to find a cure to this devastating disease.” share: f t Striving to increase funding for research for Alzheimer’s, the seventh leading cause of death in the United States, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) last night introduced H.R. 6169, the Making Investments Now for Dementia (MIND) Act. The legislation authorizes the establishment of United States Alzheimer’s Bonds, providing all Americans a way to aid in the search for a cure for this difficult and costly disease. “Alzheimer’s disease is one of the most burdensome diseases facing Americans today, taking an immense emotional, physical, and financial toll on those affected. There is no cure, yet research funding is not equivalent to other comparable illnesses,” Burgess said. “It is important that additional avenues of funding are designated, and the MIND Act will help bring research funds for Alzheimer’s up to par, so we can work to find a cure to this devastating disease.” There are currently 5.3 million Americans with Alzheimer’s, but the number of Americans who will become afflicted with Alzheimer’s is rising – anticipated to increase by more than fifty percent over the next twenty years. In addition to affecting millions of Americans and their friends and family members, Alzheimer’s is a very expensive disease, costing the United States $172 billion annually, and as the population of Alzheimer’s patients continues to grow, so will these costs. However, for every dollar that is spent on the costs of Alzheimer’s care, less than a penny is invested in finding a cure. The MIND Act is supported by several individuals and groups determined to find a cure for Alzheimer’s, including former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, founder of the Center for Health Transformation; Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach, former Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration and former director of the National Cancer Institute; the American Academy of Neurology; the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America; and the Alzheimer's Association. “The MIND Act creates an opportunity to allow all Americans to have an impact and support those personally affected by this disease, while also investing in the long term future of our country’s health,” Speaker Gingrich said. “This will truly save lives,” Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach said of the MIND Act. “Neurologists are on the front lines in providing care for the more than five million Americans living with the devastating effects of Alzheimer’s disease and providing counsel to their families and caregivers,” said Robert C. Griggs, MD, FAAN, president of the American Academy of Neurology, the world’s largest association of neurologists with more than 22,000 members. “It is essential that Congress think in innovative ways, as suggested in the MIND Act, to encourage research into the prevention, treatment and cures of neurologic disorders like Alzheimer’s disease.” “By establishing the issuance of United States Alzheimer’s Bonds, we can create an additional source of funding specifically for Alzheimer research at the National Institutes of Health. An advance in Alzheimer research has the potential both to save millions of lives and billions of dollars for the nation’s public health programs,” Robert Egge, Vice President of Public Policy and Advocacy for the Alzheimer’s Association, said of the legislation. The MIND Act would: - Establish the issuance of United States Alzheimer’s Bonds to aid in the funding of Alzheimer’s research by creating an additional avenue of funding. - Proceeds of bond sales would fund the program and be directed to the Director of the National Institutes of Health solely for Alzheimer’s research. - The revenues generated by the sale of United States Alzheimer’s Bonds would be funds available for research in addition to yearly appropriated funds, rather than supplementing current funding. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.22.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement explaining the dispute that occurred earlier today during the subcommittee hearing on the outbreak of salmonella in eggs: “It is very unfortunate that the Majority chose to turn today’s hearing on a bipartisan food safety issue into a vicious coordinated character assassination on Senator Tom Coburn. Even more appalling was the Majority's refusal to allow the other side of the issue to be aired. It was never my intention to use today’s hearing for political purposes, but I could not stand by and allow misleading statements to go unanswered. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement explaining the dispute that occurred earlier today during the subcommittee hearing on the outbreak of salmonella in eggs: “It is very unfortunate that the Majority chose to turn today’s hearing on a bipartisan food safety issue into a vicious coordinated character assassination on Senator Tom Coburn. Even more appalling was the Majority's refusal to allow the other side of the issue to be aired. It was never my intention to use today’s hearing for political purposes, but I could not stand by and allow misleading statements to go unanswered. “After I used the first portion of my 5 minutes to question the first panel of witnesses, I chose to spend the last 40 seconds reading a statement from Senator Coburn to set the record straight and present the opposing view to the Majority’s attack. Chairman Stupak immediately interrupted me, and then he turned my microphone off, not allowing me to finish. “Never before have I witnessed a Member of this Committee being censored in this fashion. “The Food Safety bill is strong, bipartisan legislation that I support and worked on extensively with the Majority. It is my hope that the Senate can resolve any issues promptly so this bill can be brought to the Senate floor and passed as soon as possible.” Below is the full text of Senator Coburn’s statement that Burgess attempted to read in today’s subcommittee hearing: Dr. Coburn Encourages Reid to Bring Food Safety Bill to the Floor Sep 16 2010 (WASHINGTON, D.C.) – U.S. Senator Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK) released the following statement today encouraging Majority Leader Reid to bring food safety legislation to the floor of the Senate for a full and open debate. “If Majority Leader Reid believes this legislation is a matter of life and death he should bring it to the floor immediately for a full and open debate. As Majority Leader, he sets the schedule. I do not. His claim that I am blocking the Senate from considering the bill is false, and he knows it is false,” Dr. Coburn said. “The Majority Leader also knows that one of my concerns with the bill is that it is not paid for. Unfortunately, he has refused to even discuss ways to pay for the bill by reducing spending on lower priority items. With our national debt at $13.5 trillion we simply can’t continue to borrow and spend without restraint. The American people should question the competence of any member of Congress who can’t find $1.4 billion of waste in a $3.5 trillion budget that could be cut to pay for improved food safety. “Finally, I don’t question the Majority Leader’s commitment to safe food even if he does not extend the same courtesy to me. However, as a practicing physician, I am not impressed with public health lectures from career politicians who have little real world experience in any field, much less health-related fields. If the Majority Leader wants the bill to advance he should pay for it. If he doesn’t want to pay for it, he should then bring it to the floor and explain to the American people why he can’t cut a penny of wasteful Washington spending to pay for a bill he says is a matter of life and death,” Dr. Coburn said. ### Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.17.2010	With an eye towards maximizing the freedom of every man, woman, and child, our Founding Fathers, in drafting the Constitution, enshrined into our history the rules under which our new union would operate, and set important limits on the government. In America, freedom became a reality for all, and it was the Constitution, the pact between the governing and the governed, that did this. It seems today that too many politicians have forgotten that the federal government is bound by the words of the Constitution – that they are real, concrete limitations to what legislators can impose on the citizens of this country. During this time of heightened interest in the role of the federal government a return to a Constitutionally-focused government of representatives who listen to the will of the people would be a welcome change for many. On this Constitution Day, we remember this important document that helped shape our nation, and has stood the test of time for 223 years. share: f t With an eye towards maximizing the freedom of every man, woman, and child, our Founding Fathers, in drafting the Constitution, enshrined into our history the rules under which our new union would operate, and set important limits on the government. In America, freedom became a reality for all, and it was the Constitution, the pact between the governing and the governed, that did this. It seems today that too many politicians have forgotten that the federal government is bound by the words of the Constitution – that they are real, concrete limitations to what legislators can impose on the citizens of this country. During this time of heightened interest in the role of the federal government, a return to a Constitutionally-focused government of representatives who listen to the will of the people would be a welcome change for many. On this Constitution Day, we remember and honor this important document that helped shape our nation, and has stood the test of time for 223 years.
09.16.2010	U.S. Reps. Michael Burgess, R-Texas, Joe Barton, R-Texas, and Marsha Blackburn, R-Tenn., today introduced H.R. 6144, the Better Use of Light Bulbs Act. The BULB Act repeals Subtitle B of Title III of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which is a de facto ban on the incandescent light bulb that has its origins in Thomas Alva Edison’s laboratory. “The unanticipated consequence of the ’07 act – Washington-mandated layoffs in the middle of a desperate recession – is one of many examples of what happens when politicians and activists think they know better than consumers and workers,” Barton said. “From the health insurance you’re allowed to have, to the car you can drive, to the light bulbs you can buy, Washington is making too many decisions that are better left to people who work for their own paychecks and earn their own living.” “Thousands of American jobs have been shipped overseas as a direct consequence of this light bulb provision in the Democrats’ 2007 energy bill,” Burgess said. “Further, I have stated all along that exposing our citizens to the harmful effects of the mercury contained in CFL light bulbs, which are being manufactured in China, is likely to pose a hazard for years to come. This light bulb issue is just the latest example of Republicans attempting to correct the mistakes of Nancy Pelosi’s misguided Democrat-controlled Congress.” “If the American people needed another example of why it is time to roll back the hyper-regulation of the past four years, this is it,” Blackburn said. “Washington banned a perfectly good product and fired hard working Americans based on little more than their own whim and the silly notion that they know better than the American consumer. Now, hundreds more Americans are looking for work while assembly lines in China are churning out fluorescent bulbs for the US market. Tell me how that makes any sense at all.” Alternatives to traditional incandescent bulbs have many drawbacks. They are all considerably more expensive. The most common alternative, compact florescent light bulbs have a number of problems:  Most CFLs are not manufactured in the United States. A recent Washington Post story reported that GE is shuttering a plant in Winchester, Va., killing 200 jobs in the process.  CFLs contain mercury and have to be disposed of carefully. The amount of mercury in one bulb is enough to contaminate up to 6,000 gallons of water beyond safe drinking levels. The EPA recommends an elaborate cleanup ritual, including throwing away any clothes or bedding that has come in direct contact with the mercury from the bulb.  CFLs are not designed to be turned off and on frequently; the lifespan of a CFL may be reduced by up to 85 percent if you switch it off and on a lot.  CFLs can raise your heating bills. They’re not great for interior use in a cold climate, because they produce less heat than incandescent bulbs. So you save on electricity, but have to pay more in heating costs.  People with certain health conditions can be harmed by CFLs. Reactions range from disabling eczema-like reactions, to light sensitivities that can lead to skin cancer.  The Energy Star program warns that CFLs can overheat and smoke.
09.14.2010	Members of the Texas Republican Congressional delegation, led by Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville), today introduced legislation to repeal language in last month’s education funding bill that discriminates against only the state of Texas, and could prevent Texas from receiving its fair share of the federal education funding. The legislation, H.R. 6108, calls to strike the paragraph, which was written and inserted by Texas Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Austin), that calls for Texas to make additional requirements beyond what all other states are required to make in order to qualify for the funding. These additional requirements are not only inequitable, but according to Texas officials, would require the state to make assurances that violate the Texas Constitution. Further, requiring only Texas to meet additional requirements under the section titled “Additional Requirements For The State Of Texas” that no other states are required to make puts Texas schoolchildren at an unfair advantage. share: f t Members of the Texas Republican Congressional delegation, led by Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville), today introduced legislation to repeal language in last month’s education funding bill that discriminates against only the state of Texas, and could prevent Texas from receiving its fair share of the federal education funding. The legislation, H.R. 6108, calls to strike the paragraph, which was written and inserted by Texas Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Austin), that calls for Texas to make additional requirements beyond what all other states are required to make in order to qualify for the funding. These additional requirements are not only inequitable, but according to Texas officials, would require the state to make assurances that violate the Texas Constitution. Further, requiring only Texas to meet additional requirements under the section titled “Additional Requirements For The State Of Texas” that no other states are required to make puts Texas schoolchildren at an unfair advantage. On August 6, 2010, all 22 Republican members of the Texas Congressional delegation, including Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn,wrote to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi urging her to strike the Doggett language. The lawmakers wrote, “…this amendment singles out only the State of Texas…and no other state in the nation is subject to these additional requirements…the House language only punishes Texas students and teachers.” Unfortunately the language was not stripped, and consequently, on September 9, 2010, Texas’ application for the $830 million in education funding was denied by the U.S. Department of Education. Texas Republicans joining Burgess in introducing the legislation are: Congressman Joe Barton Congressman Kevin Brady Congressman John Carter Congressman Michael Conaway Congressman John Culberson Congressman Louie Gohmert Congresswoman Kay Granger Congressman Ralph Hall Congressman Jeb Hensarling Congressman Michael McCaul Congressman Randy Neugebauer Congressman Pete Olson Congressman Ron Paul Congressman Ted Poe Congressman Pete Sessions Congressman Lamar Smith Congressman Mac Thornberry Senators Hutchison and Cornyn introduced the Senate version to repeal Doggett’s language, S. 3768, yesterday in the Senate. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.11.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) released the following statement on the 9th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: “While it has been nine years since the tragic events of September 11, 2001, we as Americans, and many across the world, still feel the stinging grief and sadness we felt on that terrible day. Today we remember the 2,977 Americans who perished because of the attacks, and we also remember the 5,661 American soldiers who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan and gave their lives, and thank them for their sacrifice, so that we may be safe and free. Our country was deeply wounded that day, and for many the wound has not fully healed. We must never forget, though, the way Americans came together in the days and weeks following the attacks, and presented a united front against evil and hate. Some may feel sadness today, others anger – but as we reflect on the anniversary of 9/11, we should all feel pride for our country’s efforts since that day, which have paved the way across the globe for democracy and freedom for those who otherwise would have never known the blessings of liberty.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) released the following statement on the 9th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: “While it has been nine years since the tragic events of September 11, 2001, we as Americans, and many across the world, still feel the stinging grief and sadness we felt on that terrible day. Today we remember the 2,977 Americans who perished because of the attacks, and we also remember the 5,661 American soldiers who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan and gave their lives, and thank them for their sacrifice, so that we may be safe and free. Our country was deeply wounded that day, and for many the wound has not fully healed. We must never forget, though, the way Americans came together in the days and weeks following the attacks, and presented a united front against evil and hate. Some may feel sadness today, others anger – but as we reflect on the anniversary of 9/11, we should all feel pride for our country’s efforts since that day, which have paved the way across the globe for democracy and freedom for those who otherwise would have never known the blessings of liberty.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.10.2010	Congressman Michael Burgess, R-Texas, ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, and Congressman Joe Barton, R-Texas, ranking member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today wrote to Committee Chairman Henry Waxman requesting that the Secretary of Health and Human Services testify before the committee on implementation of the health care law. “It has now been six months since the passage of the PPACA, and this Committee has yet to hear from Secretary Sebelius on her efforts to administer the law. Secretary Sebelius is the head of the department now responsible for overseeing a dramatic change to one-fifth of the American economy, and Members of Congress should have the opportunity to discuss the PPACA with her,” the lawmakers wrote. share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess, R-Texas, ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, and Congressman Joe Barton, R-Texas, ranking member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today wrote to Committee Chairman Henry Waxman requesting that the Secretary of Health and Human Services testify before the committee on implementation of the health care law. “It has now been six months since the passage of the PPACA, and this Committee has yet to hear from Secretary Sebelius on her efforts to administer the law. Secretary Sebelius is the head of the department now responsible for overseeing a dramatic change to one-fifth of the American economy, and Members of Congress should have the opportunity to discuss the PPACA with her,” the lawmakers wrote. The letter emphasized the committee and subcommittee’s important oversight responsibilities, noting that, “In the months leading up to the passage of the PPACA, the Subcommittee on Health and the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a number of hearings in order to build support for the passage of a new health care law. Since its passage, however, these committees have not held one hearing specifically on the PPACA. As the Ranking Members of the Full Committee and the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, we believe this is unacceptable.” The lawmakers first made the request to Waxman for Secretary Sebelius to testify before the committee in a letter dated July 30, 2010, but have received no response. “Since we sent that letter, Secretary Kathleen Sebelius said during an interview with ABC News Radio on August 30, 2010, ‘[T]here is still a great deal of confusion about what is in [the health care law] and what isn’t.’ The Secretary concluded that the administration had ‘a lot of reeducation to do.’” “Inviting Secretary Sebelius to testify before this Committee, so that we may understand her ‘reeducation’ of the American public, would be a good start to a public conversation about the new health care law,” Burgess and Barton continued. To view the letter, click here. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.10.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) today wrote to Texas Governor Rick Perry requesting that he add Denton County to his Disaster Declaration for counties affected by Hurricane Hermine. “While 40 Texas counties were included in your initial assessment, Denton County was not included. The damage to both public and private property within the county is substantial and deserving of state and federal assistance,” Burgess wrote. “Tropical Storm Hermine resulted in numerous fatalities, injuries, and destruction of property. This storm and the subsequent flooding that occurred has seriously impacted my constituents. I fully support your proclamation declaring a state of disaster, and believe the damage done in Denton County constitutes adding the county to the list of places deserving emergency assistance,” the letter continued. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) today wrote to Texas Governor Rick Perry requesting that he add Denton County to his Disaster Declaration for counties affected by Hurricane Hermine. “While 40 Texas counties were included in your initial assessment, Denton County was not included. The damage to both public and private property within the county is substantial and deserving of state and federal assistance,” Burgess wrote. “Tropical Storm Hermine resulted in numerous fatalities, injuries, and destruction of property. This storm and the subsequent flooding that occurred has seriously impacted my constituents. I fully support your proclamation declaring a state of disaster, and believe the damage done in Denton County constitutes adding the county to the list of places deserving emergency assistance,” the letter continued. Burgess has been working closely with local Denton County officials over the past 24 hours to assess the damage and ensure they have access to the resources needed to address the damage. “I appreciate Congressman Burgess’ leadership in assisting Denton County and assuring we have everything we need to deal with Hermine’s damage to public and private property,” said Denton County Judge Mary Horn. To view the full letter, click here. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.02.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) will bring together local, state and federal representatives, area stakeholders and the public at-large for the 6th Annual East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit on Friday, September 17, 2010. The annual event is held to highlight areas where the community can spur economic growth, and serves as a facilitating mechanism for interested parties to discuss available resources, showcase current and potential projects, identify potential funding opportunities and highlight the needs of this community. “This area of the district faces many challenges with regards to spurring economic growth and sustaining that growth, and the communities’ needs are substantial,” Burgess said. share: f t To view speaker bios and presentations for the 2010 Economic Development Summit, click here. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) will bring together local, state and federal representatives, area stakeholders and the public at-large for the 6th Annual East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit on Friday, September 17, 2010. The annual event is held to highlight areas where the community can spur economic growth, and serves as a facilitating mechanism for interested parties to discuss available resources, showcase current and potential projects, identify potential funding opportunities and highlight the needs of this community. “This area of the district faces many challenges with regards to spurring economic growth and sustaining that growth, and the communities’ needs are substantial,” Burgess said. “I’ve hosted this event every year since 2005 with the goal of bringing together stakeholders and facilitating partnerships and revitalization efforts to overcome the obstacles East and Southeast Fort Worth faces. The short-term goal is to recognize ways growth can be spurred, and the long-term goal is to ensure that the projects and improvements are sustainable, which is a key component to success.” This year’s summit will focus on ongoing development opportunities for the area, which will include discussions about include silo busting initiatives, with options related to environmental and pedestrian friendly transit-oriented development and matching it with quality affordable housing initiatives, as well increasing the presence of small businesses and economic development projects. Other topics of discussion will include the “Fresh Food Financing Initiative” as a way of partnering neighborhoods, schools, grocers, farmers and policymakers in an effort to increase the availability of fresh foods to the area. Confirmed speakers include Yael Lehmann with The Food Trust of Philadelphia, PA, Kathy Golson with the Texas Department of Agriculture, and Dr. Mark DeHaven with the University of North Texas Health Science Center. Other highlighted speakers will be representatives from related federal agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Department of Transportation, as well as local elected officials and representatives from state, regional and local agencies and community organizations. Registration will begin at 8:00 a.m., with the event beginning at 9:00 a.m. in The Pavilion (Lou’s Place) on the campus of Texas Wesleyan University, located at 1112 Wesleyan Street in Fort Worth, and concluding around 1:30 p.m. For registration, please visit http://www.publicforuminstitute.org/. For more information, visit Burgess’ website at / or call (817) 531-8454. WHAT: 6th Annual East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit WHEN: Friday, September 17, 2010 8:00 a.m. – Registration 9:00 a.m. – Event begins 1:30 p.m. – Event concludes WHERE: The Pavilion (Lou’s Place) Texas Wesleyan University 1112 Wesleyan Street Fort Worth, TX 76105 WHO: Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Yael Lehmann, The Food Trust Kathy Golson, Texas Department of Agriculture Dr. Mark DeHaven, University of North Texas Health Science Center Representatives from federal, state, regional and local agencies and community organizations Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.01.2010	As the fiftieth anniversary of the armistice ending WWII approaches, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 2010 Congressional Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project, sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. “Our nation’s veterans have proudly and honorably served our country and preserved our freedom, and it is because of their service that we enjoy all the liberties we are afforded. They deserve our thanks and praise, and I am proud to recognize the veterans in Texas’ 26th Congressional district and honor their service through the 2010 Congressional Veteran Commendation,” Burgess said. share: f t As the fiftieth anniversary of the armistice ending WWII approaches, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 2010 Congressional Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project, sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. “Our nation’s veterans have proudly and honorably served our country and preserved our freedom, and it is because of their service that we enjoy all the liberties we are afforded. They deserve our thanks and praise, and I am proud to recognize the veterans in Texas’ 26th Congressional district and honor their service through the 2010 Congressional Veteran Commendation,” Burgess said. Those individuals selected to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation will be recognized and honored at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association on November 9, 2010. To nominate a veteran for the Congressional Veteran Commendation, please fill out the nomination form, which can be found on Burgess’ website at /Services/cvc.htm. The deadline for submitting nominations is October 4, 2010, and the completed nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, should be submitted to Burgess’ Lewisville office. To be eligible for nomination, veterans must be currently residing in the 26th District of Texas, have served the nation honorably during their military career, and subsequently demonstrated dedication to their community. An in-depth interview will be conducted with comendees and that interview will be forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection. For more information regarding the project, visit http://www.loc.gov/vets/. To obtain additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the 26th District of Texas, please contact Burgess’ District Administrator, Robin Vaughan, at (972) 434-9700 or visit Rep. Burgess’ website at /. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
08.31.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) released the following statement in anticipation of President Obama’s Oval Office address tonight on the withdrawal of all U.S. combat troops from Iraq: “After more than seven years, as the last U.S. combat troops leave Iraq, I want to first offer my gratitude to the members of our military and their families for their sacrifice during Operation Iraqi Freedom. “Both the Bush Administration and the Obama Administration share in this significant moment – President Bush deserves credit for the successful surge and the structuring of the U.S.-Iraq Status of Forces Agreement, and President Obama for maintaining these policies and for bringing the mission to this point. “While we have much to be proud of, we must remain vigilant in order to ensure stability in Iraq, so that the work of our armed forces will not be in vain. Their absence must not be an invitation for terrorism to once again take hold in the region. “For everything, we honor our troops, and thank them for their service, for their sacrifices, and for their families’ sacrifices, and we also pay tribute to those who lost their lives in this mission. “To our brave men and women – job well done, and welcome home.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) released the following statement in anticipation of President Obama’s Oval Office address tonight on the withdrawal of all U.S. combat troops from Iraq: “After more than seven years, as the last U.S. combat troops leave Iraq, I want to first offer my gratitude to the members of our military and their families for their sacrifice during Operation Iraqi Freedom. “Both the Bush Administration and the Obama Administration share in this significant moment – President Bush deserves credit for the successful surge and the structuring of the U.S.-Iraq Status of Forces Agreement, and President Obama for maintaining these policies and for bringing the mission to this point. “While we have much to be proud of, we must remain vigilant in order to ensure stability in Iraq, so that the work of our armed forces will not be in vain. Their absence must not be an invitation for terrorism to once again take hold in the region. “For everything, we honor our troops, and thank them for their service, for their sacrifices, and for their families’ sacrifices, and we also pay tribute to those who lost their lives in this mission. “To our brave men and women – job well done, and welcome home.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is the founder and Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, and is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
08.13.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), was recently honored by two organizations for his responsible, conservative voting record in the United States House of Representatives. The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste, a taxpayer watchdog group, named Burgess a 2009 “Taxpayer Hero” for his “unparalleled commitment to cutting wasteful spending, reducing the tax burden, and making government more accountable to taxpayers” in the first half of the 111th session of Congress. The International Foodservice Distributors Association awarded Burgess a “2010 Thomas Jefferson Award” for his voting record in the 111th Congress to “strengthen our nation’s free enterprise system and support economic prosperity.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), was recently honored by two organizations for his responsible, conservative voting record in the United States House of Representatives. The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste, a taxpayer watchdog group, named Burgess a 2009 “Taxpayer Hero” for his “unparalleled commitment to cutting wasteful spending, reducing the tax burden, and making government more accountable to taxpayers” in the first half of the 111th session of Congress. The International Foodservice Distributors Association awarded Burgess a “2010 Thomas Jefferson Award” for his voting record in the 111th Congress to “strengthen our nation’s free enterprise system and support economic prosperity.” “I am honored to be recognized by these two distinguished organizations for my pro-growth voting record in the United States House of Representatives,” Burgess said. “Over the past two years, I have stood up and voted against numerous bailouts, stimulus packages, tax increases, and unprecedented expansions of the federal government – over $11 trillion in spending increases. It’s time for the federal government to get back to the basics and be more efficient and lean, and for legislators to get serious about reducing deficits and debt so the federal government may be less burdensome on future generations of Americans.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
08.10.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), released the following statement after voting “no” on the Democrats’ bailout: “I am disappointed that Texas Democrats failed to join Republicans in removing the language from this bill that prevents Texas teachers and school children from receiving their fair share of education funding. The provision’s purpose was silly and unnecessary, because Texas historically has either maintained or increased education funding. But this was only one irresponsible aspect of today’s latest bailout. The legislation authorizes two years of spending paid for by 10 years of tax increases. It’s an attempt – and a lousy one – for Democrats to go home and boast to certain constituencies, namely unions, about their so-called jobs agenda. But the American people will not be fooled. This latest stimulus proves that Democrats’ past stimulus packages are failures, and it’s time for the spending spree to end. Congress should pass a budget and start legislating responsibly.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), released the following statement after voting “no” on the Democrats’ bailout: “I am disappointed that Texas Democrats failed to join Republicans in removing the language from this bill that prevents Texas teachers and school children from receiving their fair share of education funding. The provision’s purpose was silly and unnecessary, because Texas historically has either maintained or increased education funding. But this was only one irresponsible aspect of today’s latest bailout. The legislation authorizes two years of spending paid for by 10 years of tax increases. It’s an attempt – and a lousy one – for Democrats to go home and boast to certain constituencies, namely unions, about their so-called jobs agenda. But the American people will not be fooled. This latest stimulus proves that Democrats’ past stimulus packages are failures, and it’s time for the spending spree to end. Congress should pass a budget and start legislating responsibly.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
08.06.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), today joined 19 members of the Texas GOP Congressional delegation in writing to Speaker Pelosi urging her to remove the provision in the state aid bill that mandates special requirements of Texas, and no other state, in order to receive education funding. “Texans are sick and tired of Democrats in Washington trying to tell us what’s best for our state. But what’s worse is that this time it’s Democrats in Washington who are from Texas that are punishing Texans,” Burgess said. “This ridiculous education funding provision, which some have even called ‘wacky,’ was written to only impact Texas and has got to go, so that Texas teachers and students are provided the same opportunities as teachers and students in every other state.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), today joined members of the Texas GOP Congressional delegation in writing to Speaker Pelosi urging her to remove the provision in the state aid bill that mandates special requirements of Texas, and no other state, in order to receive education funding. “Texans are sick and tired of Democrats in Washington trying to tell us what’s best for our state. But what’s worse is that this time it’s Democrats in Washington who are from Texas that are punishing Texans,” Burgess said. “This ridiculous education funding provision, which some have even called ‘wacky,’ was written to only impact Texas and has got to go, so that Texas teachers and students are provided the same opportunities as teachers and students in every other state.” Text of letter: August 6, 2010 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H232 Capitol Washington, DC 20515-6501 Dear Madam Speaker: We are writing to urge you to remove previously House-passed language included in Sen. AMDT. 4575 that solely discriminates against our State. Again, this amendment singles out only the State of Texas. It would force Texas to certify the maintenance of fiscal year 2011 funding levels for two additional fiscal years, above and beyond the one-year requirement imposed on all other 49 States. This provision would have Texas violate her own State Constitution. The Texas Legislature has sole authority to determine State appropriations. Moreover, one Legislature cannot bind a future Legislature. Requiring the State to assure that a future Texas Legislature would commit to spend funds in accordance with these provisions would violate the Texas Constitution. Texas is constitutionally prohibited from meeting these severe restrictions, and no other state in the nation is subject to these additional requirements. According to the Congressional Research Service, the State’s share of the $10 billion is estimated to be over $830 million. By adding the additional two-year requirement, the House language only punishes Texas students and teachers. Therefore, we urge you to strike the previous House-passed provision in the bill. Sincerely, Sen. Cornyn Sen. Hutchison Rep. Michael Burgess Rep. Joe Barton Rep. Michael Conaway Rep. John Culberson Rep. Kay Granger Rep. Jeb Hensarling Rep. Sam Johnson Rep. Kenny Marchant Rep. Michael McCaul Rep. Randy Neugebauer Rep. Pete Olson Rep. Ron Paul Rep. Ted Poe Rep. Pete Sessions Rep. Lamar Smith Rep. Mac Thornberry Rep. Ralph Hall Rep. John Carter Rep. Kevin Brady Rep. Louie Gohmert Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
08.06.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced three Congressional Health Care Caucus events in North Texas to discuss the local impact of health care reform on doctors, hospitals, businesses and all constituents. “Many North Texans, from doctors to small business owners, have asked me, ‘How will this new law affect me?’ There is a lack of understanding as to how the 2,200-page, $1 trillion law will affect Americans,” Congressman Burgess said. “These events will hopefully answer many of the questions North Texans have about the law, from how small businesses can apply for tax credits, to how some doctors offices and hospitals will be affected.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced three Congressional Health Care Caucus events in North Texas to discuss the local impact of health care reform on doctors, hospitals, businesses and all constituents. “Many North Texans, from doctors to small business owners, have asked me, ‘How will this new law affect me?’ There is a lack of understanding as to how the 2,200-page, $1 trillion law will affect Americans,” Congressman Burgess said. “These events will hopefully answer many of the questions North Texans have about the law, from how small businesses can apply for tax credits, to how some doctors offices and hospitals will be affected.” Congressman Burgess and the panelists will outline what North Texas hospitals, doctors, local leaders and businesses can expect in the coming months and years as a result of health care reform, as well as answer questions. The Fate of Physician Owned Hospitals and Practices WHEN: Tuesday, August 17th, 2:30pm - 3:30pm WHERE: Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Flower Mound, 4400 Long Prairie Rd., Flower Mound, TX WHO: Bobby Hillert - Executive Director at Texas Physician Hospitals Advocacy Center David May – President of the American College of Cardiology, Texas Chapter Side Effects of Health Reform on Business WHEN: Wednesday, August 18th, 8:00am – 9:00am WHERE: North Hills Hospital, Texas Pediatric Surgery Building, Austin Classroom 4375 Booth Calloway Road, North Richland Hills, TX WHO: Mayor Oscar Trevino - Mayor of North Richland Hills Laura Stromberg - NFIB Lee Spangler - Vice President, Medical Economics Sally Bustamante - HR Manager, Bates Containers Side Effects of Health Reform on Business WHEN: Wednesday, August 18th, 2:00pm – 3:00pm WHERE: Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Denton 3000 North I-35, Denton, TX WHO: Mayor Mark Burroughs – Mayor of Denton Laura Stromberg - NFIB Lee Spangler - Vice President, Medical Economics Lisa Wiborg - Human Resources Director, Peterbilt NOTE: Seating is limited, so please RSVP by noon on Monday, August 16th to tx26rsvp@mail.house.gov or (972) 434-9700. For more information, go to http://www.healthcaucus.org. If you are unable to attend, you can watch the events LIVE at: http://www.ustream.tv/healthcaucus. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.28.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, last night introduced a Resolution of Inquiry (ROI), H.Res. 1561, requesting internal Health and Human Services (HHS) communications related to a government report that the newly enacted health care law will actually cause health care costs to increase by billions. On April 22, 2010, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) Chief Actuary, Richard S. Foster, released a report entitled Estimated Financial Effects of the ‘Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,’ as Amended, which predicted that, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, national health expenditures would increase by $311 billion over 10 years. These updated projections were only released after the President signed the bill into law. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, last night introduced a Resolution of Inquiry (ROI), H.Res. 1561, requesting internal Health and Human Services (HHS) communications related to a government report that the newly enacted health care law will actually cause health care costs to increase by billions. On April 22, 2010, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) Chief Actuary, Richard S. Foster, released a report entitled Estimated Financial Effects of the ‘Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,’ as Amended, which predicted that, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, national health expenditures would increase by $311 billion over 10 years. These updated projections were only released after the President signed the bill into law. The ROI seeks information on whether important information regarding the bill’s costs were purposely withheld from Congress. The ROI requests HHS to provide any documents, records, telephone and electronic communications, records of internal discussions, and records of presentations or briefings related to the CMS Actuary’s report, including communications about the report's impact on passage of health care reform and the timing of the release of the report. “I am very concerned that the information in this report was deliberately kept secret before final passage of health care reform, thereby preventing Congress and the public from knowing the truth about the costs of implementation of the legislation,” Burgess said. “Were Secretary Sebelius and others at HHS aware of this report while saying publicly that health care costs would go down because of the bill? Were officials in the Obama Administration knowingly misleading Americans by suppressing this report? I do not know, but the American people deserve answers.” Burgess, along with Committee Ranking Member Joe Barton (R-Texas), expressed similar concerns in a June 14, 2010 letter to HHS Secretary Sebelius, writing “We are concerned by recent press reports that HHS may have had access to information that Mr. Foster used in his April report prior to Congressional consideration but did not share this information with the public or with Congress…we question whether, or to what extent, HHS had access to the information in Mr. Foster’s report prior to the report’s release. Such information could have been helpful to the public’s and Congress’ understanding of the financial impact of the law.” “The American people were promised time and time again by President Obama that his Administration would be the most transparent and open in history. The American people were also promised that ObamaCare would lower the cost of health care. It is becoming more apparent that both of those promises have been broken, and it’s time for this Administration to stop misleading the country and tell the truth,” Burgess continued. Under House rules, a Resolution of Inquiry becomes privileged on the House floor if it is not considered by the Committee of jurisdiction within 14 legislative days of introduction. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.23.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced three Town Hall meetings for the first week of August. The Town Halls give residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about health care reform, taxes and spending, energy legislation, immigration reform, or any other issues. “I’ll be there to hear from you on the issues that are important to you, your family, and our community, and discuss issues currently before the United States Congress,” Congressman Burgess said. “I certainly look forward to meeting you and hearing your views.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced three Town Hall meetings for the first week of August. The Town Halls give residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about health care reform, taxes and spending, energy legislation, immigration reform, or any other issues. “I’ll be there to hear from you on the issues that are important to you, your family, and our community, and discuss issues currently before the United States Congress,” Congressman Burgess said. “I certainly look forward to meeting you and hearing your views.” Burgess will host the first Town Hall on Tuesday, August 3rd at Flower Mound High School in Flower Mound; the second Town Hall on Wednesday, August 4th at the Gainesville Civic Center in Gainesville; and the third Town Hall on Thursday, August 5th at Denton High School in Denton. Those interested are encouraged to attend and bring questions for Congressman Burgess to answer. Information on all three August Town Hall meetings is listed below. Flower Mound Town Hall Tuesday, August 3rd – 7:00 p.m. Flower Mound High School Auditorium 3411 Peters Colony Road Flower Mound, TX 75022 Gainesville Town Hall Wednesday, August 4th – 11:30 a.m. Gainesville Civic Center 311 South Weaver Street Gainesville, TX 76240 Lunch will not be provided, but you may bring your own. Drinks will be provided. Denton Town Hall Thursday, August 5th – 5:00 p.m. Denton High School Auditorium 1007 Fulton Street Denton, TX 76201 For more information, go to /District/Events.htm NOTE: North Texans who are unable to attend can watch the Town Hall LIVE at: http://www.ustream.tv/channel/rep-burgess-town-halls-2010. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.21.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) released the following statement after joining the Congressional Tea Party Caucus: "The Tea Party movement has transformed politics since average Americans started speaking out against the irresponsible spending, debt, and deficits in Washington. I am one of the few Members of Congress to vote against every bailout, stimulus, and tax increase – over $2.6 Trillion that is being passed down to our children and grandchildren. "As a legislator, I have always been guided by the principles of limited government, fiscal responsibility, adherence to the Constitution, and national soviergnty. These are the same values of the grassroots Tea Party movement, and this is why I joined the Congressional Tea Party Caucus, which is an effort to give concerned citizens a chance to have their voices heard in Congress. "Through my participation in the Tea Party Caucus, I will work to remind our country’s leaders that Americans are concerned about the direction of our country, and it’s time to start legislating responsibly." share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) released the following statement after joining the Congressional Tea Party Caucus: "The Tea Party movement has transformed politics since average Americans started speaking out against the irresponsible spending, debt, and deficits in Washington. I am one of the few Members of Congress to vote against every bailout, stimulus, and tax increase – over $2.6 Trillion that is being passed down to our children and grandchildren. "As a legislator, I have always been guided by the principles of limited government, fiscal responsibility, adherence to the Constitution, and national soviergnty. These are the same values of the grassroots Tea Party movement, and this is why I joined the Congressional Tea Party Caucus, which is an effort to give concerned citizens a chance to have their voices heard in Congress. "Through my participation in the Tea Party Caucus, I will work to remind our country’s leaders that Americans are concerned about the direction of our country, and it’s time to start legislating responsibly." Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.16.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement on the latest developments in the Gulf Coast oil spill: “I am grateful that the gushing well seems to be controlled at the present time, and am confident in the abilities of the engineers and experts working to ensure the spill is stopped. However, there is more work to be done. Thousands of workers are continuing to work around the clock on containment and clean-up efforts, and they must continue to receive all of the support and resources their tasks require. While there is still a ways to go, the latest developments are promising, and I hope for continued progress to plug the well permanently.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement on the latest developments in the Gulf Coast oil spill: “I am grateful that the gushing well seems to be controlled at the present time, and am confident in the abilities of the engineers and experts working to ensure the spill is stopped. However, there is more work to be done. Thousands of workers are continuing to work around the clock on containment and clean-up efforts, and they must continue to receive all of the support and resources their tasks require. While there is still a ways to go, the latest developments are promising, and I hope for continued progress to plug the well permanently.”
07.15.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will be joined this Saturday, July 17 by local and state officials, industry experts and businesses for a summit and fair on energy efficiency and conservation. The event will be held at Lake Dallas High School in Corinth, and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient. The summit will feature two panels, the first panel focusing on ways to save energy in design and construction of buildings and houses, and the second panel will discuss energy efficiency and conservation for mobility. There summit will also feature a fair with booths providing energy-related information and resources. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will be joined this Saturday, July 17 by local and state officials, industry experts and businesses for a summit and fair on energy efficiency and conservation. The event will be held at Lake Dallas High School in Corinth, and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient. The summit will feature two panels, the first panel focusing on ways to save energy in design and construction of buildings and houses, and the second panel will discuss energy efficiency and conservation for mobility. There summit will also feature a fair with booths providing energy-related information and resources. “We must all do our part to become more energy efficient and strive for an energy independent America,” Congressman Burgess said. “I invite you to join me as I bring together experts to discuss our country’s energy agenda, including the future of energy in America, ways Texas has lead the nation in many types of renewable energies, and how recent federal policies will impact Texas.” Doors open and the fair exhibits will be open to the public beginning at 8:30 AM, with Congressman Burgess giving opening remarks and kicking off the panels at 9:00 AM. The event is free and open to the public. WHAT: Summit on Energy Efficiency and Conservation WHO: Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Energy Industry Experts Businesses and Organizations Leading the Way in Energy Technologies WHEN: Saturday, July 17, 2010 8:30 AM – Fair Exhibits Open 9:00 AM – Summit Presentations Begin Noon – Summit Concludes WHERE: Lake Dallas High School 3016 Parkridge Drive Corinth, TX 76120 Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus and a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.14.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), released the following statement on the death of Coppell Mayor Jayne Peters and her daughter: “I am deeply saddened by the death of Coppell Mayor Jayne Peters and her daughter, Corinne. This is a tragedy, and my thoughts and prayers are with their friends and family, and the entire Coppell community, during this difficult time.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.04.2010	Freedom - it means many different things to many different people. To some, it’s about the God-given right to chart our own course. Or to be free from burdensome government interference, and to live our lives and fulfill our destinies as we see fit. On this day, 234 years ago, our Founding Fathers adopted the Declaration of Independence, marking the first step in our country’s establishment of “freedom” being a core principal of America. While we spend time with our families and loved ones this 4th of July Weekend, celebrating Independence Day, I hope that all of us will remember the sacrifices that have been made, and are still being made every day, by the brave men and women, fighting for our freedoms. May God Bless America. share: f t Freedom - it means many different things to many different people. To some, it’s about the God-given right to chart our own course. Or to be free from burdensome government interference, and to live our lives and fulfill our destinies as we see fit. On this day, 234 years ago, our Founding Fathers adopted the Declaration of Independence, marking the first step in our country’s establishment of “freedom” being a core principal of America. While we spend time with our families and loved ones this 4th of July Weekend, celebrating Independence Day, I hope that all of us will remember the sacrifices that have been made, and are still being made every day, by the brave men and women, fighting for our freedoms. May God Bless America.
06.24.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today sent a letter to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar in anticipation of his appearance before the subcommittee next week. Burgess detailed questions he plans to ask Secretary Salazar about his agency’s role and actions relating to the blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and the ongoing oil spill along the Gulf Coast. “Given the integral role of the Department of Interior and its component agencies in the oversight and inspections of the Deepwater Horizon rig, drilling equipment, well construction, and well control operations, as well as the post-incident response, I believe your testimony can provide critical information that will assist the Subcommittee’s investigation going forward,” Burgess wrote. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today sent a letter to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar in anticipation of his appearance before the subcommittee next week. Burgess detailed questions he plans to ask Secretary Salazar about his agency’s role and actions relating to the blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and the ongoing oil spill along the Gulf Coast. “Given the integral role of the Department of Interior and its component agencies in the oversight and inspections of the Deepwater Horizon rig, drilling equipment, well construction, and well control operations, as well as the post-incident response, I believe your testimony can provide critical information that will assist the Subcommittee’s investigation going forward,” Burgess wrote. In the letter, Burgess listed five areas of questioning he hoped Salazar would address during the June 29 hearing, including information on the Department of Interior’s (DOI) interactions with BP and Deepwater Horizon rig personnel during the week prior to the incident, including on the date of the explosion; the role DOI has played in responding to the disaster, including the initial response and the ongoing response efforts, assets and personnel deployed; and DOI requirements and regulations on oil spill risk models in response plans and well control techniques and equipment. Burgess also requested that Salazar be prepared to answer questions regarding the moratorium on deepwater offshore drilling, including economic or employment analyses considered by DOI relating to the effects of the moratorium. NOTE: Full letter can be found below and here. June 24, 2010 The Honorable Ken Salazar Secretary U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar: I look forward to your testimony before the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and Subcommittee on Energy and Environment on June 29, 2010, about your agency’s role and actions relating to the blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and the ongoing oil spill along the Gulf Coast. Given the integral role of the Department of Interior (the Department) and its component agencies in the oversight and inspections of the Deepwater Horizon rig, drilling equipment, well construction, and well control operations, as well as the post-incident response, I believe your testimony can provide critical information that will assist the Subcommittee’s investigation going forward. I write respectfully to ask that you be prepared to respond next week in your testimony to questions developing out of our investigation and hearings. In particular, among the questions surrounding federal oversight of the rig prior to the explosion and the related response, I would like you to address the following: 1. What were the Department’s interactions with BP and/or the Deepwater Horizon rig personnel during the week prior to the incident? What communications occurred during that time period between Department and rig personnel, including on the date of the explosion? 2. What specific role has the Department played in responding to the Deepwater Horizon disaster, including the initial response and the ongoing response efforts? What assets and personnel have been deployed? What role has the Department played in Unified Command decision-making? 3. What role did Department requirements and regulations play in the development of oil spill risk models used by oil producers in their response plans filed with the Department? According to the June 24, 2010, Wall Street Journal article, BP Relied on Faulty U.S. Data (attached), oil companies were required to rely on what the Department understood were government computer models of questionable accuracy. Is this true? What is the Department doing to improve computer modeling? 4. Your May 27, 2010, report to the President entitled Increased Safety Measures for Energy Development of the Outer Continental Shelf lists 23 Department-sponsored studies over the past two decades which evaluated the use of well control techniques and equipment, including casing, cementing, mud, pressure control valves, and blow out preventers. Have the recommendations of all of these studies been implemented by the Department and used when evaluating drilling operations and well designs? Is the Department evaluating implementation of these safety recommendations during inspections? 5. On May 30, 2010, you ordered an extended moratorium on offshore drilling, based upon your May 27, 2010, report to President Obama referenced above. On June 22, 2010, a federal judge struck down this moratorium and granted a preliminary injunction. In partial response to this decision, you announced that you would issue an order in support of a new version of the moratorium. What is your assessment of the direct and indirect employment impacts in the Gulf of Mexico region and elsewhere in the United States that may result from the moratorium and related notice to lessees (NTL)? What does the Administration estimate will be the cumulative and long-term economic impacts of the moratorium and related NTL? What economic or employment analyses have been prepared or considered by the Department relating to the effects of the moratorium and related NTL? Could you make those available to the Committee? In addition, as the Subcommittee reviews documents provided by the Department, I seek your assurance that the Department will make available to Majority and Minority Committee staff the relevant individuals or officials with knowledge of the application approvals, safety inspections, and related oversight of the Deepwater Horizon operations. Sincerely, Michael C. Burgess Ranking Member Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations cc: The Honorable Henry A. Waxman, Chairman The Honorable Joe Barton, Ranking Member The Honorable Bart Stupak, Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
06.24.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after Committee Democrats announced the postponement of the Secretary Salazar hearing on the Gulf Coast oil spill, scheduled for Tuesday, June 29, 2010. “It has been 66 days since the spill began, and we still have no sworn testimony or documents from the Obama Administration before this Committee. “Secretary Salazar has already testified – alone – before three other House and Senate Committees. Why the Energy and Commerce Democrats think they need to shield him from the Committee’s members is a mystery. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after Committee Democrats announced the postponement of the Secretary Salazar hearing on the Gulf Coast oil spill, scheduled for Tuesday, June 29, 2010. “It has been 66 days since the spill began, and we still have no sworn testimony or documents from the Obama Administration before this Committee. “Secretary Salazar has already testified – alone – before three other House and Senate Committees. Why the Energy and Commerce Democrats think they need to shield him from the Committee’s members is a mystery. “What is it Democrats are trying to gain by postponing this important hearing with the head of a key federal agency behind the oil spill and response? What is it that the Democrats are trying to hide by keeping the relevant federal agencies out of the investigation? “Given the frustration of the public with BP and the Administration’s handling of the oil spill and response, one would think the Democrats would be eager to find out why federal authorities approved BP drilling plans and what role the federal government played in responding to the oil spill. We need answers to a host of questions and soon – the American people are demanding answers now. “Secretary Salazar had already agreed to be present for next Tuesday’s hearing, so it appears that the Democrats are delaying this hearing for purely political reasons. The Majority has set up the greatest Witness Protection program this Congress has seen.” Burgess has requested several times that the relevant federal agencies come before the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee to testify on their role as it relates to the Gulf Coast oil spill. Burgess sent a letter on May 4, 2010, requesting that the appropriate federal agencies testify before the Committee on the oil spill. And in last week’s hearing with BP CEO Tony Hayward, Burgess pressed Subcommittee Chairman Stupak on when federal representatives would appear before the subcommittee. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
06.22.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has scheduled a Town Hall meeting in North Texas for this Saturday, June 26th. The Town Hall give residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about health care reform, taxes and spending, energy legislation, immigration reform, or any other issues. Those interested are encouraged to attend and bring questions for Congressman Burgess to answer. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has scheduled a Town Hall meeting in North Texas for this Saturday, June 26th. The Town Hall give residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about health care reform, taxes and spending, energy legislation, immigration reform, or any other issues. Those interested are encouraged to attend and bring questions for Congressman Burgess to answer. “I’ll be there to discuss issues currently before the United States Congress, and to hear from you on the issues that are important to you, your family, and our community,” Congressman Burgess said. “I certainly look forward to meeting you and hearing your views.” WHEN Saturday, June 26, 2010 10:00 a.m. WHERE Keller ISD/Timber Creek High School 12350 Timberland Blvd. Fort Worth, TX 76244 Maplink: http://www.mapquest.com/mq/1-oDzbkcjbz9TrG229 For more information, go to: /District/Events.htm NOTE: If you are unable to attend the events, you may watch the Town Halls LIVE at: http://www.ustream.tv/channel/rep-burgess-town-halls-2010 Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
06.17.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, joined the Texas Republican Congressional delegation in sending a letter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson on the EPA's threat of a takeover of the state's air quality permitting process. "We do not believe EPA should be setting a precedent to supersede a successful state program that has reduced emissions and improved the air quality. Given Texas’ strong record of success, particularly compared to other states with large populations and metropolitan areas, and in view of the regulatory uncertainty and adverse economic and job impacts resulting from EPA recent and threatened permitting actions, we urge EPA to reconsider the permitting action taken on May 25, 2010, and to refrain from any further actions to take over other operating permits in Texas," the lawmakers wrote. NOTE: Full letter is below. June 17, 2010 The Honorable Lisa Jackson Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Jackson: As you know, the State of Texas has been extremely successful in improving air quality over the past decade, and has been a national leader in reducing emissions and known pollutants. Since 2000, the State has achieved a 22 percent reduction in ozone and a 46 percent decrease in nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions, compared to an 8 percent reduction in national ozone levels and a 27 percent reduction in national NOx levels between 2000 and 2008. Currently there are no Texas counties in nonattainment for fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) which is one of the pollutants with the greatest impact on human health. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from fossil fuel usage have also fallen by more than almost any other state, and Texas is ranked among the highest in the nation for clean energy jobs and clean energy venture capital investments. Texas has achieved major pollution and emissions reductions while at the same time promoting economic prosperity and job creation despite population growth of nearly 3.5 million over the past decade. While most would regard the Texas air quality successes as commendable and a model for other states, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has recently threatened to take over the State’s delegated Clean Air Act Title V operating permit program. Although air quality permitting under the federal Clean Air Act is delegated to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), EPA took the unprecedented step on May 25, 2010, of circumventing TCEQ and notifying a refinery in Texas, which has an operating permit issued by TCEQ, that to continue operations the refinery must obtain a new operating permit directly from your agency. EPA Region 6 has directed the facility to submit a new operating permit application and additional detailed information directly to the EPA not later than September 15, 2010, or be subject to potential EPA or Department of Justice enforcement actions or penalties. According to press reports, EPA’s new regional administrator for EPA Region 6 has threatened to federalize operating permits for other major Texas facilities as well. We are not aware of similar actions by EPA to take over a delegated Title V permitting program from any other state. EPA’s actions appear to relate primarily to the agency’s objections to TCEQ’s longstanding “flexible permitting program” adopted in 1994. That program facilitates emissions reductions at plants and other facility sites by setting overall emissions caps and allowing companies to meet their business needs while demonstrating their compliance with the overall caps and with both state and federal law. This approach gives companies operational flexibility to reduce emissions cost-effectively and efficiently without triggering excessive, unwarranted permitting activities, and regulatory burdens. The program is particularly well suited to Texas where there are many complex facilities, including refineries, chemical, and petrochemical facilities, which may have hundreds or thousands of individual pieces of equipment or individual emissions sources on site, and where additional permitting and regulatory burdens would achieve no net environmental benefit. We believe the Texas flexible permitting program is consistent with the provisions of the Clean Air Act and has played a critical role in the significant and continuing success of the Texas air quality program. Mandating individual permitting and pollution technology controls for each piece of equipment or unit that is a source of emissions at a large site would be extraordinarily complicated, expensive, and inefficient, and undermine environmental protection by discouraging appropriate upgrades and operational improvements at those facilities. Such additional regulatory permitting burdens would also result in costs that will be passed on to consumers in the form of higher prices for fuel, electricity, and other goods and services. As a practical matter, your agency’s actions on May 25, 2010, and EPA threats to take over operating permits at Texas facilities, are putting on hold major new projects (including pollution control projects), stalling the creation of thousands of associated new jobs, and creating substantial regulatory uncertainty for many facilities across the state that directly employ tens of thousands of workers. These facilities are critical not only to the State’s economy, but also to the nation because Texas supplies more than one-fifth of the nation’s crude oil, refines more than a quarter of the nation’s fuel supply, provides more than a quarter of the nation’s natural gas (more than any state), and manufactures approximately 60 percent of the chemicals used in the United States. We understand TCEQ, which in the past has had a cooperative working relationship with EPA, has been participating in ongoing discussions with your agency to address EPA concerns with the flexible permitting and other aspects of the State’s air quality program. We are informed TCEQ has provided EPA with detailed and extensive written responses, as well as additional rule proposals, to attempt to resolve specific issues your agency has raised and that TCEQ continues to try to address EPA’s evolving issues and concerns. We do not believe EPA should be setting a precedent to supersede a successful state program that has reduced emissions and improved the air quality. Given Texas’ strong record of success, particularly compared to other states with large populations and metropolitan areas, and in view of the regulatory uncertainty and adverse economic and job impacts resulting from EPA recent and threatened permitting actions, we urge EPA to reconsider the permitting action taken on May 25, 2010, and to refrain from any further actions to take over other operating permits in Texas. We further request your assurances that EPA will continue to work collaboratively with TCEQ to resolve EPA’s outstanding issues with the Texas air permitting program. Thank you for your attention to this matter and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, John Cornyn, United States Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, United States Senator Joe Barton, United States Representative Randy Neugebauer, United States Representative Ralph Hall, United States Representative Lamar Smith, United States Representative Louie Gohmert, United States Representative Sam Johnson, United States Representative Ted Poe, United States Representative Jeb Hensarling, United States Representative John Culberson, United States Representative Kevin Brady, United States Representative Michael McCaul, United States Representative Mike Conaway, United States Representative Kay Granger, United States Representative Mac Thornberry, United States Representative Ron Paul, United States Representative Pete Olson, United States Representative Kenny Marchant, United States Representative Michael Burgess, United States Representative John Carter, United States Representative Pete Sessions, United States Representative
06.14.2010	"233 years after the Second Continental Congress adopted the first American Flag, the Stars and Stripes continues to serve as a beacon of freedom the world over. Our ideals, our beliefs, and our history are embedded in every stitch of the 50 stars and 13 stripes that have survived through world wars and economic depressions. The men and women fighting to preserve our freedoms overseas need only a single glance at Old Glory to be reminded that their enduring fight is warranted and necessary. So on this day – June 14, Flag Day – we honor the American Flag." share: f t "233 years after the Second Continental Congress adopted the first American Flag, the Stars and Stripes continues to serve as a beacon of freedom the world over. Our ideals, our beliefs, and our history are embedded in every stitch of the 50 stars and 13 stripes that have survived through world wars and economic depressions. The men and women fighting to preserve our freedoms overseas need only a single glance at Old Glory to be reminded that their enduring fight is warranted and necessary. So on this day – June 14, Flag Day – we honor the American Flag."
06.09.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) today sent a letter to the Texas Sunset Advisory Commission outlining the concerns he has with the Texas Commission on Environments Quality (TCEQ) and air quality testing in North Texas. TCEQ is up for review this year by the Sunset Commission, and the Commission is currently accepting public comment from Texans on the agencies it will review. Burgess encourages other Texans, and North Texans that share his concerns with air quality tests performed in North Texas, to submit comments to the Sunset Commission. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) today sent a letter to the Texas Sunset Advisory Commission outlining the concerns he has with the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and air quality testing in North Texas. TCEQ is up for review this year by the Sunset Commission, and the Commission is currently accepting public comment from Texans. Burgess encourages other Texans, and North Texans that share his concerns with air quality tests performed in North Texas, to submit comments to the Sunset Commission. The text of Burgess' letter is below: June 9, 2010 Texas Sunset Advisory Commission Members PO Box 13066 Austin, TX 78711 Dear Members: Thank you for the opportunity to allow me to provide public comments to include in your review of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ). On May 28, 2010, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported that a TCEQ internal audit revealed discrepancies over the disclosure of data recovered during air quality testing in the Fort Worth area. This audit proved alarming to both me and the men and women living in the 26th Congressional District. According to the audit, on December 15-17, 2009, TCEQ performed air monitoring activity in Fort Worth. The data was presented to the public on January 12, 2010 and showed that “no measured concentrations of the 22 target compounds exceeded TCEQ long-term or short-term screening values when the canisters were analyzed by gas chromatography.” However, a complaint filed with TCEQ’s chief auditor’s office alleged that management overseeing the data collection was aware that information presented to the public was “inaccurate and misleading.” While the audit found that the information was “technically accurate,” it agreed with the initial allegation that data presented could be considered misleading because “certain compounds were not detected in the field study.” Sometime after the original round of testing, subsequent tests with more technologically advanced and sensitive equipment were performed. On January 22, 2010, updated results were published, indicating that “benzene was detected at levels greater than the long-term health based appropriate comparison level/ESL.” This seems to conflict with public statements made on January 12, 2010 touting the original data from the first round of testing. However, according to the audit, “there was no indication that upper management, nor the public, had been contacted to correct the inaccuracy.” Therefore, the audit reveals that officials at TCEQ failed to alert Fort Worth officials and the media of the updated data from the subsequent tests. On April 30, 2010, I was briefed in my Lewisville office by TCEQ officials who oversaw the aforementioned testing. The briefing covered air quality issues relating to urban drilling in my Congressional district, but information on the discrepancies with the air quality testing data was withheld from me, just as it was withheld from other local officials. There are questions that TCEQ simply must answer, and the public is right to demand accountability. While the internal TCEQ audit found issues surrounding the data taken at sites in the DFW area, the larger issue is why TCEQ officials waited weeks after finding out this data was suspect to come forward and correct their earlier statements. An outside investigation is the most proper way to determine if the actions taken were proper. TCEQ is currently up for review by the Texas Sunset Advisory Commission, and I have every confidence in the Commission to conduct a thorough review of TCEQ. I respectfully request that you consider my concerns outlined above during your review of this agency. TCEQ’s response to discovering that its equipment was not able to properly detect certain levels of toxins calls into question the agency’s credibility. Texans must be able to rely on their state agencies to fulfill their responsibilities, in this case, ensuring the safety and wellbeing of the state’s residents. The goal of your Commission’s review is to make our state’s agencies more effective and efficient, and I share this goal. I am confident in the Sunset Advisory Commission’s ability to review the state’s agencies, and I believe the State of Texas is in the best position to regulate its own agencies. As you review TCEQ overall, I request that you look into this matter specifically and address the issues outlined above. I understand the Commission has scheduled a public hearing on TCEQ for December 15 and 16, 2010. I plan on attending this session to discuss my concerns about the agency with you in-person. If you have additional questions or need further information, please contact me or James Decker on my staff at (202) 225-7772. Sincerely, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Member of Congress
06.07.2010	"I appreciate St. Bernard Parish in Chalmette, Louisiana for hosting the Subcommittee’s field hearing, and I appreciate the witnesses for coming and speaking to Members. It is important for us to assess the local effects of this devastating oil spill and hear from the locals directly, outside of the Washington echo chamber. "The field hearing was immensely useful and informative. The main takeaway points that stood out to me are: The environmental impact is enormous, but so is the economic impact. The federal government must ensure that BP is providing the locals everything they require – monetary compensation for all of those affected, such as those in the fishing, tourism, and oil industries; protective gear for those working on clean-up efforts; and the resources to protect the areas still unaffected, among others. It is clear the BP is not doing a sufficient job, so it is the federal government’s job to make sure BP is acting appropriately. Congress and the President must not rush to judgment on the future of offshore drilling. One witness stated that offshore drilling accounts for 75-80 percent of her small Louisiana town’s jobs. Witnesses said less offshore drilling would devastate the local economies of not only Coastal Louisiana, but also the economies of other Gulf Coast communities who rely on offshore drilling and oil rig jobs. With regards to safety, the witnesses stated that they believe there are already an adequate number of safety rules and regulations in place for offshore drilling. The problem, based on their testimony, lies in the safety rules and regulations not being adequately enforced. This must change. Moving forward, safety should be the top priority of the Congress as we consider action, and of the oil companies who drill offshore." Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.31.2010	On this Memorial Day, Americans across the country will look back and remember the triumphs and tragedies our country’s heroic men and women have endured to ensure our home remains the land of the free. For generations our soldiers have boldly faced danger from the shores of Normandy to the mountains of Afghanistan, and today, we pay special remembrance to those who have given the ultimate sacrifice for their country. We would not be the country we are today without our servicemembers who valiantly served on our soil and overseas – and for them, we are eternally grateful. I join with the mothers, the fathers, the brothers, the sisters, the friends, and all those who have lost loved ones in the fight to advance the cause of liberty. share: f t On this Memorial Day, Americans across the country will look back and remember the triumphs and tragedies our country’s heroic men and women have endured to ensure our home remains the land of the free. For generations our soldiers have boldly faced danger from the shores of Normandy to the mountains of Afghanistan, and today, we pay special remembrance to those who have given the ultimate sacrifice for their country. We would not be the country we are today without our servicemembers who valiantly served on our soil and overseas – and for them, we are eternally grateful. I join with the mothers, the fathers, the brothers, the sisters, the friends, and all those who have lost loved ones in the fight to advance the cause of liberty. On this day we join together as a nation to give thanks and remember our soldiers – both past and present - who give of themselves in order to protect and defend each of us.
05.28.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), today announced the students from the 26th District of Texas who have accepted appointments to the United States Service Academies. At his recent town hall meetings in The Colony and Fort Worth, Burgess presented appointees with a Special Certificate of Congressional Recognition and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their appointment. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), today announced the students from the 26th District of Texas who have accepted appointments to the United States Service Academies. At his recent town hall meetings in The Colony and Fort Worth, Burgess presented appointees with a Special Certificate of Congressional Recognition and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their appointment. "It is my honor to nominate outstanding young men and women who will be the future leaders of our Armed Forces and our country,” Burgess said. “I am grateful that these future leaders have accepted this challenge to serve their country." This summer the young men and women will be entering the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT; the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY; and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are rigorously evaluated on a variety of criteria, including academic performance, leadership qualifications and physical preparedness. Appointments to an academy must be preceded by a nomination from a Member of Congress, Academy Superintendent, the Vice President or a military connected nomination. The exception is to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, where a nomination is not required for consideration, but appointments are based upon a competitive nationwide admissions process. Those students from the 26th Congressional District attending the service academies who were nominated by Rep. Burgess are: U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY Cody Bye, Euless Sam Forrer, Argyle Sam Hoggard, Denton Donald LeBlanc, The Colony Mirissa Mullins, Flower Mound Damon Paulo, Keller U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD Mary Jordan, Lewisville Trenton Layne, Flower Mound U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY Nicholas Dimas, Keller Andrew Donohue, Keller Eric Rice, Argyle Janie Jo Talburt, Corinth U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO Andrew Burns, Lewisville Matthew Gibson, Keller William Leach, Gainesville Kyle Mahan, Corinth Wesley Reeder, Denton Ali Rizvi, Frisco Brandon Towers, Keller Those students attending the service academies nominated by other sources, but who reside in Texas’ 26th District are: U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY Andrew Oswald, Lewisville U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT Mark Capra, Argyle Josh Fischer, Roanoke Ben McKeathen, Denton Treston Taylor, Fort Worth U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY Erik Hartmann, Argyle Andrew See, Denton U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO Justin Bruton, Argyle Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.28.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman on the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after voting “yes” on the 19-month extension to Medicare physician payments: ”When will our nation’s doctors finally get the permanent fix to the Medicare payment formula that they need and deserve? This nagging problem was ignored in the Democrats’ sweeping health care reform legislation, and even before then, and now once again today, only monthly fixes are being made. Each time the Democratic Leadership in Congress puts off a permanent fix, the problem only gets worse and more expensive. I have a bill - HR 3963, the Ensuring the Future Physician Workforce Act – that would finally implement a permanent fix to the formula Medicare uses to determine payment to doctor. The legislation would repeal the flawed SGR formula and create a sustainable and reliable payment schedule using the Medicare Economic Index." share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman on the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after voting “yes” on the 19-month extension to Medicare physician payments: ”When will our nation’s doctors finally get the permanent fix to the Medicare payment formula that they need and deserve? This nagging problem was ignored in the Democrats’ sweeping health care reform legislation, and even before then, and now once again today, only monthly fixes are being made. Each time the Democratic Leadership in Congress puts off a permanent fix, the problem only gets worse and more expensive. I have a bill - HR 3963, the Ensuring the Future Physician Workforce Act – that would finally implement a permanent fix to the formula Medicare uses to determine payment to doctor. The legislation would repeal the flawed SGR formula and create a sustainable and reliable payment schedule using the Medicare Economic Index. “America’s seniors are finding it more and more difficult to find Medicare doctors, and today’s so-called doc fix will do nothing more than kick the can down the road one more time. The time has come for Congress to pass a permanent fix.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.28.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), released the following statement after voting “no” on the National Defense Authorization Act today: “I have never wavered in my support of and commitment to the brave men and women who risk their lives to keep our country safe and defend us abroad. This bill provides America’s military a number of important tools to fulfill their mission, but it is unfortunate that Democrats took this opportunity to turn an important Act of Congress into a social experiment. Defense Secretary Gates was very clear in his recommendation that Congress wait for the Department of Defense internal study to be completed before Congress took action on ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’" share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), released the following statement after voting “no” on the National Defense Authorization Act today: “I have never wavered in my support of and commitment to the brave men and women who risk their lives to keep our country safe and defend us abroad. This bill provides America’s military a number of important tools to fulfill their mission, but it is unfortunate that Democrats took this opportunity to turn an important Act of Congress into a social experiment. Defense Secretary Gates was very clear in his recommendation that Congress wait for the Department of Defense internal study to be completed before Congress took action on ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’ Further, today’s legislation states that even when the study is complete, if the results are not satisfactory to the liberals wishing to impose their radical agenda on our nation’s military, the President may then make the final decision. This is a stunning move of defiance toward our military’s leaders, and it is unacceptable.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.28.2010	Yesterday, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) released the results of a audit that revealed disturbing findings about the agency’s air quality testing methods in North Texas. The audit found several problems relating to TCEQ’s tests on the effect of urban gas drilling on the area’s air quality. “I was recently briefed by TCEQ on air quality issues in the area related to urban gas drilling,” Burgess said. “I relied on the information I was given, as did many others in North Texas. I find it personally offensive to find out that what I have been told may not be the full story on the air quality issues in the area that affect millions of North Texans. There are a lot of questions that TCEQ needs to answer, and the public is right to demand accountability.” share: f t 6/2/2010 - UPDATE: “Issues relating to urban gas drilling in the Barnett Shale have been present since I began my tenure as a United States Congressman in January of 2003, and my staff and I have been involved and monitoring the situation ever since. My staff have been present at every town hall event or local forum of which we have been aware, and engaged a senior energy advisor for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. At my request, I have been briefed by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality several times, as well as the Texas Department of State Health Services, on the issue of air and water quality. Further, my staff and I have kept in constant contact with local and state officials on the issue. "Since being named the Ranking Member on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce Committee, Committee staff have looked into the issue to determine if federal involvement would be appropriate. The permitting and siting of gas production wells, as well as the oversight of air and water quality, are under the purview of local and state governments. Both of these entities are capable of carrying out their duties. "When it was brought to my attention last Friday that an internal audit showed that the relevant state agency, TCEQ, failed to inform local officials in a timely manner of new air quality data collected at sites in Fort Worth, I took issue. There are questions that TCEQ needs to answer, and the public is right to demand accountability. TCEQ’s response to discovering that its equipment was not able to properly detect certain levels of toxins calls into question the agency’s credibility. TCEQ must focus its efforts on correcting these mistakes and reestablishing the public’s trust. "While the internal TCEQ audit found issues surrounding the data taken at sites in the DFW area, the larger issue is why TCEQ officials waited weeks after finding out this data was suspect to come forward and correct their earlier statements. An outside investigation is the most proper way to determine if the actions taken were proper. "After further review of all the information currently available, I have determined that an investigation by the Texas Attorney General’s office might not be the best course of action. TCEQ is currently up for review by the Texas Sunset Advisory Commission, and I have every confidence in the Commission to conduct a thorough review of TCEQ, and I do not believe there needs to be duplicative efforts by multiple agencies reviewing TCEQ. Further, I am confident in the state regulatory agencies’ ability to fulfill their responsibilities and ensure the safety of Texans." Yesterday, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) released the results of a audit that revealed disturbing findings about the agency’s air quality testing methods in North Texas. The audit found several problems relating to TCEQ’s tests on the effect of urban gas drilling on the area’s air quality. “I was recently briefed by TCEQ on air quality issues in the area related to urban gas drilling,” Burgess said. “I relied on the information I was given, as did many others in North Texas. I find it personally offensive to find out that what I have been told may not be the full story on the air quality issues in the area that affect millions of North Texans. There are a lot of questions that TCEQ needs to answer, and the public is right to demand accountability.” Among the audit’s findings are that TCEQ used equipment not sensitive enough to conduct the kind of rigorous testing necessary to ensure the levels of toxins in the air residents are breathing are within safe standards. More troubling, the audit suggests that employees at TCEQ knowingly kept this information from the public. “The public must have faith in the agency designed to protect residents from environmental hazards. TCEQ’s response to discovering that its equipment was not able to properly detect certain levels of toxins calls into question the agency’s credibility. TCEQ must focus its efforts on correcting these grievous mistakes and earning the public’s trust. Those responsible should be held fully accountable, and I believe that a robust investigation would be appropriate,” Burgess continued. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.25.2010	U.S. Reps. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Steve Scalise (R-Louisiana), both members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, sent a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) supporting Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal’s request for an emergency permit to dredge and build sand barrier islands. The USACE must conduct an environmental assessment before granting the state a permit to build the barriers, but Governor Jindal’s proposal was submitted two weeks ago and has yet to receive a response. In the meantime, oil has begun inundating Louisiana’s coast and fragile marshes. The proposed sand barriers would create a permanent barrier to prevent oil from reaching the shore and wetlands. share: f t UPDATE: On Wednesday, May 26, Reps. Burgess and Scalise sent a similar letter to President Obama, again supporting Gov. Jindal's request for an emergency permit to dredge and build sand barrier islands. To access this letter, click here. U.S. Reps. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Steve Scalise (R-Louisiana), both members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, sent a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) supporting Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal’s request for an emergency permit to dredge and build sand barrier islands. The USACE must conduct an environmental assessment before granting the state a permit to build the barriers, but Governor Jindal’s proposal was submitted two weeks ago and has yet to receive a response. In the meantime, oil has begun inundating Louisiana’s coast and fragile marshes. The proposed sand barriers would create a permanent barrier to prevent oil from reaching the shore and wetlands. “We support Gov. Jindal’s efforts to protect the fragile ecosystems and natural resources that are of critical importance not only to Louisiana but also to the entire national economy. And we urge the Army Corps of Engineers to act swiftly so that they may assist the Governor in protecting these valuable resources,” Burgess and Scalise wrote. “Every resource should be utilized to stem this spill and protect the nation’s coastlines.” Burgess is the top Republican on the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, which held the Energy and Commerce Committee’s first hearing on the oil spill two weeks ago. Scalise represents Louisiana’s First Congressional District, which includes the Northshore of Lake Pontchartrain, an area facing significant risk of oil contamination if the Deepwater Horizon leak is not capped and permanent barriers are not built. Burgess and Scalise were both part of a Congressional delegation that visited the Gulf and affected area three weeks ago. NOTE: Click here to access the letter. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.20.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has scheduled two Town Hall meetings in North Texas for this Saturday, May 22nd. The Town Halls give residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about health care reform, taxes and spending, energy legislation, or any other issues. Those interested are encouraged to attend and bring questions for Congressman Burgess to answer. “I’ll be there to discuss issues currently before the United States Congress, and to hear from you on the issues that are important to you, your family, and our community,” Congressman Burgess said. “I certainly look forward to meeting you and hearing your views.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has scheduled two Town Hall meetings in North Texas for this Saturday, May 22nd. The Town Halls give residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about health care reform, taxes and spending, energy legislation, or any other issues. Those interested are encouraged to attend and bring questions for Congressman Burgess to answer. “I’ll be there to discuss issues currently before the United States Congress, and to hear from you on the issues that are important to you, your family, and our community,” Congressman Burgess said. “I certainly look forward to meeting you and hearing your views.” WHEN Saturday, May 22, 2010 WHERE The Colony High School, Cafeteria 4301 Blair Oaks Road The Colony, TX 75056 10:00 - 11:00 a.m. Texas Wesleyan University Health Science/Nurse Anesthesia Building GPNA Auditorium 1000 Wesleyan Street Fort Worth, TX 76105 2:00 - 3:00 p.m. For more information, go to: /District/Events.htm NOTE: If you are unable to attend the events, you may watch the Town Halls LIVE at: http://www.ustream.tv/channel/rep-burgess-town-halls-2010 Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.19.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced the winner of the 8th annual 26th Congressional District high school art competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Natalie Runnels, a sophomore art student of James Neiswender at Marcus High School in Flower Mound, won first prize with her pencil/prismacolor piece entitled “America’s Ballgame.” “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic achievements of our local high school students and to share the results of those talents with our area and the rest of the country,” Burgess said. “Natalie’s work makes the 26th District proud. She is very talented and has a tremendous gift.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has announced the winner of the 8th annual 26th Congressional District high school art competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Natalie Runnels, a sophomore art student of James Neiswender at Marcus High School in Flower Mound, won first prize with her pencil/prismacolor piece entitled “America’s Ballgame.” “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic achievements of our local high school students and to share the results of those talents with our area and the rest of the country,” Burgess said. “Natalie’s work makes the 26th District proud. She is very talented and has a tremendous gift.” Natalie’s work will be displayed in the United States Capitol complex for the coming year. A ribbon-cutting ceremony opening the nationwide 2010 “An Artistic Discovery” exhibition will take place in Washington, D.C. on June 17, 2010. The ceremony will honor the winning artists from congressional districts all over the country. Burgess has also announced the second, third and “Texas Choice” winners: winning second place is Lilly Brott, a junior at Marcus High School and student of Kathy Toews; taking third place is Lauren Hensens, a senior art student of Faith Jessup at Guyer High School in Denton. Both students’ artwork will be displayed in Congressman Burgess’ district offices in Lewisville and Fort Worth for the next year. Also, Tiana Lord, a senior at Marcus High School and student of Eric Cranston, had her artwork voted the “Texas Choice” winner by popular vote. “Congratulations are in order for Lilly, Lauren and Tiana for their creative achievements,” said Burgess. Burgess honored all the participating student artists at a reception recently at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton, hosted by the art competition’s co-sponsor, The Greater Denton Arts Council. The juried competition was judged by professional artist and instructor Jo Williams. The art competition was open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the 26th District. Since the competition was first launched in 1982, nearly 5,000 local contests have been conducted that have involved more than 650,000 high school students across the country. NOTE: To view photos of Burgess with all four winners (first, second, third and “Texas Choice”) click here. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.07.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, released the following statement on the Deepwater Horizon oil spill containment efforts in the Gulf Coast region. Burgess visited the region today as part of a Congressional Delegation (CODEL). “My first goal as a federal representative is to make sure that the men and women involved in the cleanup effort have every tool at their disposal to safely and effectively control the spill. I am very impressed with the cooperation between the Coast Guard and BP. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, released the following statement on the Deepwater Horizon oil spill containment efforts in the Gulf Coast region. Burgess visited the region today as part of a Congressional Delegation (CODEL). “My first goal as a federal representative is to make sure that the men and women involved in the cleanup effort have every tool at their disposal to safely and effectively control the spill. I am very impressed with the cooperation between the Coast Guard and BP. The two entities seem to be working together seamlessly and all are committed to resolving the situation, and I am hopeful this will continue. This trip is a learning experience for all of us, and our focus needs to remain on learning how this tragedy occurred and how we can prevent it from ever happening again. I’m here to meet with the commanders on the ground and see first-hand how the spill has affected the region, away from the partisan spinning of Washington. Right now there is a heroic ongoing effort to prevent the situation from worsening, and we must ensure that the individuals down here in the Gulf Coast have everything they need to continue their efforts.” The CODEL visited the Unified Area Command center in Robert, LA, where they received a briefing from Rear Admiral Mary Landry. They also met with representatives from the Department of the Interior, US Minerals Management Service, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The CODEL then did a fly-over of the oil slick, marshland and deployed boom, and met with local officials, affected industries and response teams at the response site in Hopedale, LA. The Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations will hold a hearing on the oil spill on Wednesday, May 12, 2010 at 10:00 am. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.06.2010	Arguing that energy efficiency and rebate programs sell themselves, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, offered an amendment to strip the $12 million in funding for a public information campaign from H.R. 5019, the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act. “Energy efficiency sells itself - consumers use less electricity and see lower electricity bills. Major manufacturers and retailers know how to sell their products; they’ve been doing it for years. They certainly know how to market Energy Star rebates, why would this be any different? share: f t Arguing that energy efficiency and rebate programs sell themselves, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, offered an amendment to strip the $12 million in funding for a public information campaign from H.R. 5019, the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act. “Energy efficiency sells itself - consumers use less electricity and see lower electricity bills. Major manufacturers and retailers know how to sell their products; they’ve been doing it for years. They certainly know how to market Energy Star rebates, why would this be any different? Furthermore, if Members are worried their constituents won’t know about the program, they can spread the word on their own – include it in their e-newsletters, Tweet about it, post it on their Facebook pages, or mention it during district events,” Burgess said. “The provision in this bill that uses $12 million for an advertising and public awareness campaign is wasteful. Texas recently conducted a similar state rebate program which was wildly popular and sold out within the first hour it was up and running, and without spending millions of dollars of state funds to advertise the program.” Under the Silver Star program in the bill, the $12 million for advertising could instead be used for: 8,000 attic insulation rebates 24,000 window film installation rebates 48,000 natural gas tank rebates 96,000 energy efficient door rebates 240,000 storm window rebates “If the goal of this bill is to make American homes more energy efficient, let’s not use this $12 million to advertise the program. Let’s use it to help more Americans buy energy efficient products – it’s a no-brainer.” The Burgess amendment failed 190-228, and Burgess voted “no” on final passage of the bill. To view the video of Rep. Burgess debating his amendment on the House floor, click here. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.04.2010	U.S. Reps. Joe Barton, R-Texas, ranking member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Michael Burgess, R-Texas, ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, today sent a letter requesting that the committee add Department of the Interior Secretary Ken Salazar as a witness for the May 12, 2010 Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing on the causes of the Deepwater Horizon rig explosion and oil spill. share: f t U.S. Reps. Joe Barton, R-Texas, ranking member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Michael Burgess, R-Texas, ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, today sent a letter requesting that the committee add Department of the Interior Secretary Ken Salazar as a witness for the May 12, 2010 Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing on the causes of the Deepwater Horizon rig explosion and oil spill. The letter, sent to Committee Chairman Henry Waxman and Subcommittee Chairman Bart Stupak, cites two other recent incidents in which federal officials were included as witnesses at similar Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearings. “We believe the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing, planned for May 12, properly seeks initial information from key companies involved in the incident. We also believe, given the integral role of federal oversight on offshore drilling operations, that it is critically important to hear from the appropriate federal authority. The Subcommittee followed this approach on the hearings concerning Toyota (February 23, 2010, at which the Department of Transportation Secretary testified) and crib safety (January 21, 2010, at which the Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission testified). “Considering the issues under review, and these precedents, we respectfully ask that you invite the Secretary of the Interior to provide such information necessary to enable the Committee to examine the agency’s role in permitting and in performing inspections prior to the incident.” To view the letter, click here. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
04.23.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement on the recent report from the Office of the Actuary at the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services: “The findings from this report should surprise no one. For over a year I have said that the Democrats more-government-and-higher-taxes approach was the wrong way to achieve meaningful health reform, and would fail. Americans can expect to pay more for health care insurance, and businesses will be squeezed by higher costs, more rules and regulations, and higher taxes. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement on the recent report from the Office of the Actuary at the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services: “The findings from this report should surprise no one. For over a year I have said that the Democrats more-government-and-higher-taxes approach was the wrong way to achieve meaningful health reform, and would fail. Americans can expect to pay more for health care insurance, and businesses will be squeezed by higher costs, more rules and regulations, and higher taxes. Cutting Medicare, not to save the program, but to create a new entitlement, is nothing more than robbing Peter to pay Paul. Even so, it is highly unlikely that the proposed Medicare cuts would actually be allowed to go into effect down the road, as the analysis states. “The frustrating thing is, President Obama and Democrats in Washington had another choice – they could have tried to work together with Republicans, like myself, who are very interested and involved in our nation’s health care system. This is what the American people wanted us to do, and I am confident it would have yielded a worthwhile product, unlike the one we must live with today. But they decided to go it alone, writing the bills behind closed doors with special interest groups. In fact, I have requested information from the White House on negotiations and deals made in secret with six associations involved in health reform, and have yet to receive anything useful. “For the past year, Democrats have lived in a mythical land where rapidly expanding the growth of government with new entitlements and bureaucracies while also cutting the deficit are able to coexist in harmony. I have said for over a year that this is, at the very least, wishful thinking. But the Democrats have fooled no one, and this latest report is one more example of why this deeply flawed law should be repealed.” NOTE: To view the report, click here. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
04.13.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess. M.D. (Texas-26) invites area students who are interested in learning more about our nation’s service academies to attend the 2010 North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum. The event, which is co-sponsored by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Senator John Cornyn, Congressman Sam Johnson, Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman Joe Barton, Congresswoman Kay Granger, Congressman Kenny Marchant, Congressman John Carter and Congressman Pete Sessions, will be held this Saturday, April 17, 2010, in Arlington. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess. M.D. (Texas-26) invites area students who are interested in learning more about our nation’s service academies to attend the 2010 North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum. The event, which is co-sponsored by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Senator John Cornyn, Congressman Sam Johnson, Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman Joe Barton, Congresswoman Kay Granger, Congressman Kenny Marchant, Congressman John Carter and Congressman Pete Sessions, will be held this Saturday, April 17, 2010, in Arlington. “This Academies Forum gives students throughout the region the opportunity to find out more about the application process to some of the nation’s top-notch educational institutions,” Burgess said. “I am pleased to co-host this informative event with my congressional colleagues.” Representatives from congressional offices, all five academies - U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy - and ROTC, as well as current academy cadets and midshipmen, will be on hand. Special guest speaker will be Chad Hennings, an Air Force Academy graduate who, as a Dallas Cowboys Defensive Linesman, has won three Super Bowls. North Texas students, parents and educators will be able to meet on-site with these representatives to become informed about the excellent possibilities associated with attending these premier educational institutions, and the sorts of careers they generate. This informational forum provides interested students in grades eight through twelve an opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission and the selection process. The Forum, which is free and open to the public, will be held from 8:00 AM – 12:00 NOON on the campus of Tarrant County College – Southeast (2100 Southeast Parkway, Arlington, TX 76018.) Registration opens at 7:30 AM. To learn more about each service academy, visit the links below: U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY - www.usma.edu U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD - www.usna.edu U.S. Coast Guard Academy, New London, CT - www.uscga.edu U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY - www.usmma.edu U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO - www.usafa.edu For more information regarding the Academies Forum, please contact Robin Vaughan, District Administrator in Congressman Burgess’s office, at Phone: 972/434-9700 or Email: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
04.09.2010	The weather in North Texas can change in an instant, and local residents can never be too prepared for the natural disasters that hit the region. In an effort to help North Texans be better prepared for severe weather and natural disasters, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), will host a summit on Emergency Preparedness on Saturday, April 10 at the Birdville Center of Technology and Advanced Learning in North Richland Hills. The doors open at 8:30 am and the event will conclude at 11:30 am. share: f t The weather in North Texas can change in an instant, and local residents can never be too prepared for the natural disasters that hit the region. In an effort to help North Texans be better prepared for severe weather and natural disasters, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), will host a summit on Emergency Preparedness this weekend in North Richland Hills. The event will feature two panels of experts from the local, state, and federal levels, as well as area organizations, who will provide weather and disaster information to local residents. There will also be a fair with booths handing out information to attendees. The event opens at 8:30 am, and chief meteorologist for CBS 11, Larry Mowry, will deliver the keynote address at 11:00 am. “There is a wealth of information available to North Texans about what to do help families and businesses prepare and plan for severe weather and natural disasters,” said Congressman Burgess. “I want to do what I can to make sure you are ready when the next big storm hits.” WHAT: Emergency Preparedness Summit WHO: Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) CBS 11 Chief Meteorologist Larry Mowry Weather and preparedness experts from the local, state and federal level Organizations with pertinent information WHEN: Saturday, April 10, 2010 8:30 am – 11:30 am WHERE: Birdville Center of Technology and Advanced Learning 7020 Mid Cities Blvd. North Richland Hills, TX 76180 (located between Rufe Snow Dr. and Davis Blvd.) Note: This event will be webcast live at: http://www.ustream.tv/channel/rep-burgess-town-halls-2010 Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.26.2010	Last night Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, introduced H.R. 4951, which would fix the loophole that exempted certain staff, as well as Administration officials, from participating in the exchanges created by the Democrats’ flawed health care bill. Burgess’ bill, which has 26 original co-sponsors, including Republican Leader John Boehner, requires participation by the President, Vice President, political appointees, all Members of Congress, and all Congressional staff, including committee and leadership staff. share: f t Last night Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, introduced H.R. 4951, which would fix the loophole that exempted certain staff, as well as Administration officials, from participating in the exchanges created by the Democrats’ flawed health care bill. Burgess’ bill, which has 26 original co-sponsors, including Republican Leader John Boehner, requires participation by the President, Vice President, political appointees, all Members of Congress, and all Congressional staff, including committee and leadership staff. “I believe that the expansion of government control over health care was the wrong approach to take in health reform,” Burgess said. “Regardless, the Democrats’ flawed bill is now the law of the land, and if Americans must abide by the law, then all Members of Congress and their staff, as well as the President, Vice President, and political appointees, should also. If this exchange is good enough for millions of Americans, as Democrats contend, then it should be good enough for the politicians who pushed so hard for this bill’s passage.” “Over the objection of the American people, President Obama and Democrats in Washington have forced through an unpopular, unaffordable health reform bill that is propped up by backroom deals. One of those deals ensured that these same individuals don’t have to get the government health care that they force millions of Americans into. This is wrong, and Dr. Burgess’ bill would fix this loophole,” Leader Boehner said. On page 157 of the Democrats’ health bill, a provision mandates that Members of Congress and their staff purchase insurance within the health insurance exchanges. Unfortunately, the definition of “congressional staff” can be interpreted to exempt shared employees, leadership staff, and committee staff. The President, Vice President and Executive Branch appointees are also curiously exempt from participation in the exchanges. Burgess’ bill closes this loophole. “My bill closes the loophole that exempts certain individuals from being covered by plans operating in an exchange. Congress and this Administration should stop asking the American people to make sacrifices they are not willing to make themselves,” Burgess continued. Senator Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee, who has attempted numerous times to fix this loophole, introduced companion legislation in the Senate, S. 3174. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.22.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), has announced the opening of "An Artistic Discovery," the annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Since the U.S. House of Representatives created the competition in 1982, hundreds of thousands of talented high school students have served as artistic ambassadors of their communities. “The annual Congressional Art Competition brings together the best student artwork from across the 26th District. Having their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol has been a great opportunity for the very gifted North Texas students who have been selected in previous years,” Burgess said. “I look forward to viewing this year’s entries.” The contest is open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing in the 26th Congressional district or attending a school located in the 26th Congressional District. The Greater Denton Arts Council co-sponsors the annual juried event. Student artists will have their works judged by a professional art educator chosen by the council. The deadline for artwork submission is Wednesday, April 14, 2010. First prize in the competition is the display of the winning student's artwork for an entire year in the U.S. Capitol. The exhibit is seen daily by members of Congress, their staffs and thousands of visitors who are able to view the artwork from Congressional districts throughout the country — each piece highlighted with the name of the work and student artist. The 26th District winner and a guest will be invited to Washington, D.C. in the summer to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony honoring the winning artists and opening the 2010 "An Artistic Discovery" exhibition. In addition, the competition’s second and third place winners will have the opportunity to have their work displayed publicly in my Lewisville and Fort Worth district offices for the upcoming year. Competition participants, their parents, teachers and school administrators will be invited to attend a reception on Monday, May 3rd, at 5:30 p.m. to view all the entries on display at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton. For more information, please contact Joan Self in the Lewisville district office at (972) 434-9700 or joan.self@mail.house.gov. NOTE: See attached flyer with art contest information.
03.22.2010	Following House passage of the Democrats’ health care reform bill last night, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, vowed to assist Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott in his legal efforts to repeal unconstitutional sections of the legislation. “I am very concerned about the legality of several aspects of the so-called health care reform bill passed by the House of Representatives last night, which I strongly opposed and voted against,” Burgess said. “The constitutionality of the individual mandate, special deals for certain states, and state-funded Medicaid expansions are all questionable, and I will not stand by and let these concerns go unchallenged.” share: f t Following House passage of the Democrats’ health care reform bill last night, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, vowed to assist Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott in his legal efforts to repeal unconstitutional sections of the legislation. “I am very concerned about the legality of several aspects of the so-called health care reform bill passed by the House of Representatives last night, which I strongly opposed and voted against,” Burgess said. “The constitutionality of the individual mandate, special deals for certain states, and state-funded Medicaid expansions are all questionable, and I will not stand by and let these concerns go unchallenged.” “The federal health care legislation passed tonight violates the United States Constitution and unconstitutionally infringes upon Texans’ individual liberties,” Abbott said in a statement Sunday night. “To protect all Texans’ constitutional rights, preserve the constitutional framework intended by our nation's founders, and defend our state from further infringement by the federal government, the State of Texas and other states will legally challenge the federal health care legislation.” Burgess hosted a conference call over the weekend with General Abbott and the Texas GOP Congressional delegation, which offered Members the opportunity to ask the Attorney General questions about the legal actions he plans to take regarding the portions of the health bill he sees as unconstitutional. “Texas is fortunate to have a leader like General Abbott who is taking a strong stand against the provisions in the bill he thinks may infringe upon Texans’ constitutional rights, and I am proud to work with him as we fight to repeal the harmful and unlawful issues we both consider to be great concerns,” Burgess continued. “General Abbott assured me that Texas will be ready, and I am happy to join him in this undertaking.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.21.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after House passage of the Senate health care reform bill: “Tonight, the same Members of Congress who are sent to Washington by the voters in their districts to represent their best interests, told the American people ‘we don’t care what you want, we don’t care what you need, we are going to pass a health bill which you oppose anyway.’ share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after House passage of the Senate health care reform bill: “Tonight, the same Members of Congress who are sent to Washington by the voters in their districts to represent their best interests, told the American people ‘we don’t care what you want, we don’t care what you need, we are going to pass a health bill which you oppose anyway.’ Democrats said, ‘forget what’s best for the country, forget bipartisanship’ – the only thing bipartisan about this bill is its opposition. “Billions of dollars will be spent to hire the thousands of new IRS employees needed to collect the taxes and fees created by this massive health reform bill. Yet, 3 out of 10 doctors have said that if Congress goes against their will, and the will of the American people, and passes this bill, they will retire from practicing medicine. So that’s what the American people will get – more IRS agents but less doctors. How is this health care reform? “The truth is, the reason Democrats have had so much trouble passing this bill is not because of Republican opposition, it’s because they have never had, and still do not have, the support of the American people. With a bill this large, it is critical to have popular support before you start to undertake this type of change to our nation’s health care system. “President Obama, Speaker Pelosi, Harry Reid and Congressional Democrats ignored the families and businesses who they are supposed to represent because they are so blinded by their 'Washington-knows-best' attitude and infamously out-of-touch with the concerns of the American people. It is now my job to try to reverse or prevent the vast damage this bill will inflict on our country – and I vow to the American people to do all that I can to rescue them from the consequences of this historic example of Congressional malpractice.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.17.2010	Late Monday night, the House Energy and Commerce Committee received two very brief letters from the chief counsels at the White House and Department of Health and Human Services in response to the committee’s February letter requesting more information on the negotiations or agreements reached last May at a health reform meeting at the White House. The bipartisan committee letter was sent on February 17, 2010, and signed by Chairman Henry Waxman (D-California), Ranking Member Joe Barton (R-Texas), and Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee. share: f t Late Monday night, the House Energy and Commerce Committee received two very brief letters from the chief counsels at the White House and Department of Health and Human Services in response to the committee’s February letter requesting more information on the negotiations or agreements reached last May at a health reform meeting at the White House. The bipartisan committee letter was sent on February 17, 2010, and signed by Chairman Henry Waxman (D-California), Ranking Member Joe Barton (R-Texas), and Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee. “These letters are just one more example of this Administration’s desperate attempt to pass their ill-conceived health reform bill using gimmicks, bribes, and, in this case, false claims of transparency and goodwill. What is worse is that the Administration is asking the American people to believe there are no secret deals, while touting the deals and their impact on the debate the very next minute,” Burgess said. “Their proposed reforms would affect every single American, and my serious attempts to shed some light on the deals and negotiations, so that the American people can understand how they will be affected, have been taken lightly by this Administration and repeatedly brushed off. As I have said before, the integrity of health reform legislation and the Congressional process has been jeopardized by the handling of health reform, and in particular, these side negotiations orchestrated by the White House.” “President Obama promised a transparent administration when he took office, but now it looks like what passes for transparency is a new promise to be transparent wrapped up in old speeches on health care,” Barton said. “I thought we were past the time where an official could tell the public that ‘it depends on what the meaning of is is,’ but now it seems likely that we’re only a couple of questions away from getting that response all over again. Put me down as disappointed, but not so disappointed that I’m going to accept copies of speeches in lieu of real documentation of administration actions.” The committee letter stemmed from a January markup of a Resolution of Inquiry introduced by Burgess, which requested documents, information on agreements made, names of individuals present and other information about the May 2009 meeting at the White House. The meeting brought together Administration officials and representatives from six groups involved in health reform – Advanced Medical Technology Association, the American Medical Association, America’s Health Insurance Plans, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the American Hospital Association, and the Service Employees International Union. When the participants emerged from the meeting, an agreement was announced that they would work to decrease by 1.5 percentage points the annual health care spending growth rate, but little to no details as to how this would be accomplished were released. “With almost nine out of ten Americans asking Congress to either start over or stop all efforts on health reform, the people see through the Administration’s promises, including those of unprecedented transparency, and have clearly had enough of their efforts to jam through Congress their health reform bill,” Burgess added. BACKGROUND: On September 30, 2009, Burgess sent a letter to the White House requesting information on the meetings. After 77 days of silence from the White House and weeks of working with Chairman Waxman to get the information from the White House, Burgess introduced H. Res. 983, a Resolution of Inquiry, on December 16, 2009, again requesting the information. Because the Resolution would become privileged on the House floor if it was not considered by the Committee within 14 legislative days of introduction, Chairman Waxman scheduled a markup of H. Res. 983 for January 27, 2010. Late in the day on January 26, 2010, the day before the scheduled markup, Burgess received a response from the White House to his September letter – 119 days after the process began. Noting that the White House response was inadequate, during the January 27 hearing the Committee’s members voted unanimously to report the Burgess Resolution without recommendation, and Waxman and Barton vowed to help Burgess receive much of the requested information. On February 17, 2010, Waxman, Barton and Burgess sent letters to the White House and HHS again requesting information on the meetings, and offered a March 12, 2010 deadline. Three days past the deadline, late in the evening on March 15, 2010, responses from the counsels at the White House and HHS were received. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.03.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement reacting to President Obama's speech today on health care reform: "Unfortunately, President Obama seems determined to force through Congress in the next few weeks his idea of health care reform, disregarding the wants and needs of the American people who are telling him to slow down and start over. Republicans and the majority of Americans saying ‘let’s start over’ aren’t asking for another year of debate. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement reacting to President Obama's speech today on health care reform: "Unfortunately, President Obama seems determined to force through Congress in the next few weeks his idea of health care reform, disregarding the wants and needs of the American people who are telling him to slow down and start over. Republicans and the majority of Americans saying ‘let’s start over’ aren’t asking for another year of debate. We are asking President Obama and Democratic leadership to abandon their two thousand-page, trillion dollar Washington takeover, and instead move forward with several smaller bills that would enact the bipartisan reforms Americans support and know will make an impact. "There are several areas where Republicans and Democrats agree on health reform – but I will not support a plan that takes half a trillion dollars from Medicare to create a new entitlement, raises taxes, increases health insurance premiums for many Americans, and adds millions more to the rolls of the failing Medicaid program. And offering to include on top of the huge Democratic bills four apparent Republican ideas – including ‘tort reform’ in the form of grants to states for studies – does not make a bill bipartisan. And it fails to heed the wishes of the American people to scrap the current bills and start over. "Republicans committed to making meaningful and common-sense changes to our nation’s health care system, like myself, stand ready to pass bills that would benefit patients, help doctors do their jobs, and lower costs for all Americans. Passing their health care reform bill, which would affect one-sixth of the American economy, with no Republican votes and scant public support is absolutely the wrong path for Washington Democrats to take. President Obama’s plan, which includes using reconciliation in the Senate to jam through Democrats’ unpopular health care reform bill, is bad for the health of our nation, bad for the economy, and bad for the American people." Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
02.25.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement on today’s health care summit at the Blair House: “The summit was truly a 6-hour photo-op, and whether there will be meaningful action is yet to be seen. The truth is, Democrats already know the Republican ideas on health care reform, and Republicans already know what the Democratic Leadership and President Obama would like to see done. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement on today’s health care summit at the Blair House: “The summit was truly a 6-hour photo-op, and whether there will be meaningful action is yet to be seen. “The truth is, Democrats already know the Republican ideas on health care reform, and Republicans already know what the Democratic Leadership and President Obama would like to see done. And on many of these issues, the two sides strongly disagree. But for the past few months Americans have made it clear that there is no popular support for a proposal that is anything like the Senate bill, House bill, or the President’s new proposal. If there was, these bills would have been signed into law months ago. “There has been talk that at the conclusion of the summit, President Obama and Democratic Leadership will huddle to discuss the way to move forward on their health care reform proposals – if this is true, today’s summit was a wasted opportunity. “Instead, we should start over with smaller, but effective, step-by-step reforms that the American people trust and understand – and that have broad bipartisan support. Starting over doesn’t have to mean that no bill passes, that there will be another year-long debate, or that Americans will have to wait decades longer for meaningful reforms. We could pass a bill on pre-existing conditions tomorrow that would make a big impact for millions of Americans, and there are other smaller bills that we could pass that would do the same. “I hope this is what Congress does, and I stand ready to work on meaningful health care reform.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
02.24.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, was named the top Republican on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee late Tuesday during a Committee business meeting. The subcommittee’s duties include oversight of federal agencies, departments, and programs that fall within the jurisdiction of the full Committee, and conducting investigations into matters that fall within the Committee’s jurisdiction. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, was named the top Republican on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee late Tuesday during a Committee business meeting. The subcommittee’s duties include oversight of federal agencies, departments, and programs that fall within the jurisdiction of the full Committee, and conducting investigations into matters that fall within the Committee’s jurisdiction. “One of the most basic responsibilities of government is to regulate and oversee commerce and all its activities, and to ensure that all are playing by the rules and promoting the well-being of our country through inquiry and investigation, if necessary. This Committee has significant power, and with this power comes great responsibility, and as the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee, I will take my responsibilities in this regard seriously. I will work with Committee Leadership and all Members of the Committee to ensure that the work of the subcommittee lives up to the high standards that are expected of the prestigious Energy and Commerce Committee. We have the duty to ensure all parties play by the rules so that the safety and welfare of the American people is not compromised,” Burgess said. “Congressman Burgess is one of the hardest working members of the Committee with an inherent inclination to pursue facts and find the truth. These qualities will serve him well as the next Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, and I look forward to working with him throughout the rest of the year,” said U.S. Rep. Joe Barton (R- Texas), the top Republican on the Committee. Burgess will serve alongside the subcommittee’s Chairman, Congressman Bart Stupak (D-Michigan). The Committee’s jurisdiction generally includes energy, health care, interstate and foreign commerce and communications, consumer protection, travel and tourism. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and a member of the Health and Energy & Environment subcommittees. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
02.22.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has scheduled a Town Hall meeting for this Saturday, February 27th, at 10:00 a.m., at Byron Nelson High School in Trophy Club. The Town Hall gives residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about health care reform, taxes and spending, energy legislation, or any other issues. Those interested are encouraged to attend and bring questions for Congressman Burgess to answer. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has scheduled a Town Hall meeting for this Saturday, February 27th, at 10:00 a.m., at Byron Nelson High School in Trophy Club. The Town Hall gives residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about health care reform, taxes and spending, energy legislation, or any other issues. Those interested are encouraged to attend and bring questions for Congressman Burgess to answer. “I’ll be there to discuss issues currently before the United States Congress, and to hear from you on the issues that are important to you, your family, and our community,” Congressman Burgess said. “I certainly look forward to meeting you and hearing your views.” Media interested in attending must notify Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville office by calling (972) 434-9700 so adequate space may be reserved for crew members, reporters, cameras, and additional equipment. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting WHEN: Saturday, February 27, 2009 10:00 – 11:00 a.m. CDT WHERE: Byron Nelson High School, Auditorium 2775 Bobcat Blvd., Trophy Club, Texas 76262 (north of Medlin Middle School @ 601 Parkview Drive) NOTE: To view a map of the location, click here. Note: No food, drink, or display of signage is allowed inside the Auditorium.
02.18.2010	House Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Joe Barton (R-Texas) and Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), along with Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-California), yesterday sent letters to White House Counsel Robert Bauer and Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius requesting information on the secret health reform meetings and negotiations that took place at the White House in May. The letters are a result of the Committee’s intent to ensure transparency and openness in the health reform process. share: f t House Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Joe Barton (R-Texas) and Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), along with Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-California), yesterday sent letters to White House Counsel Robert Bauer and Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius requesting information on the secret health reform meetings and negotiations that took place at the White House in May. The letters are a result of the Committee’s intent to ensure transparency and openness in the health reform process. “It is very important that details on any negotiations made behind closed doors are made public and available for all to see. The integrity of the process and of health reform legislation is at stake,” Burgess said. “I would like to thank Chairman Waxman, who has long been an advocate and pursuer of a more open and transparent government, and Ranking Member Barton for working with me to obtain important information about pending health care reform legislation.” “Dr. Burgess asked the first questions about this last year and got an answer last month in the form of documents best described as warmed over press releases and Web site material,” Barton said. “That’s no answer at all, and I appreciate the bipartisan efforts of Chairman Waxman and Dr. Burgess to get real information that will add some transparency and understanding to the health care talks.” The transparency effort began in September 2009 when Burgess sent a letter to the White House requesting information on the meetings. After 77 days of silence from the White House and weeks of working with Chairman Waxman to get the information from the White House, Burgess introduced H. Res. 983, a Resolution of Inquiry, on December 16, 2009, again requesting the information. Because the Resolution would become privileged on the House floor if it was not considered by the Committee within 14 legislative days of introduction, Chairman Waxman scheduled a markup of H. Res. 983 for Jan. 27. Late in the day on Jan. 26, the day before the scheduled markup, Burgess received a response from the White House to his September letter – 119 days after the process began. Noting that the White House response was inadequate, during the Jan. 27 hearing the Committee’s members voted unanimously to report the Burgess Resolution without recommendation, and Waxman and Barton vowed to help Burgess receive much of the requested information. Below is the text of each letter, which both request a response by March 12, 2010: February 17, 2010 Robert Bauer Counsel to the President The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. Bauer: Thank you for your response to the September 29, 2009, letter request from Rep. Burgess for information relating to meetings held at the White House on health care reform legislation and purported agreements concerning health care reform legislation. We are following up on your January 26, 2010, letter to seek additional information in the interest of transparency. Pursuant to Rules X and XI of the U.S. House of Representatives, the Committee requests the following documents, to the extent they were not already provided to the Committee with your January 26 letter: (1) A list of all agreements entered into in writing between the White House and any private party, including individuals, groups, associations, or companies, and the substance of such agreements, relating to any of the following 111th Congress healthcare bills: H.R. 3200, H.R. 3590, H.R. 3961, H.R. 3962, S. 1679, or S. 1796; (2) The name of any private party, including individuals, groups, associations, or companies, that participated in meetings at the White House during which any agreements described in (1) were negotiated; (3) The name of any individual serving in a position or office in the White House who attended meetings described above in (2); (4) The time and date of meetings described in (2); (5) Any written material memorializing any agreements made during meetings described above in (2) and provided to the meeting participants who are private parties. We respectfully request that you respond to this letter by March 12, 2010. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman, Chairman Joe Barton, Ranking Member Michael Burgess, Member of Congress February 17, 2010 The Honorable Kathleen Sebelius Secretary Department of Health and Human Services Hubert H. Humphrey Building 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Madam Secretary: On January 27, 2010, the Committee on Energy and Commerce met to consider a resolution introduced by Rep. Burgess seeking certain documents from you and the President regarding the negotiation of health care reform legislation. Pursuant to a bipartisan understanding we reached relating to this resolution, we are writing to request certain documents in the interest of transparency. Pursuant to Rules X and XI of the U.S. House of Representatives, we request production to the Committee of any paper or electronic communications between the Department of Health and Human Services and the health care industry regarding agreements between the White House and any private party, including individuals, groups, associations, or companies, relating to any of the following 111th Congress healthcare bills: H.R. 3200, H.R. 3590, H.R. 3961, H.R. 3962, S. 1679, or S. 1796. We respectfully request that you respond to this letter by March 12, 2010. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman, Chairman Joe Barton, Ranking Member Michael Burgess, Member of Congress
02.17.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement marking the one-year anniversary of the passage of President Obama’s economic stimulus package: “A year ago today, President Obama and the Democratic leadership in Congress rammed through one of the most ineffective, wasteful and unpopular legislative measures when the so-called economic stimulus bill was signed into law – a bill that was supposed to stimulate the economy and create jobs. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement marking the one-year anniversary of the passage of President Obama’s economic stimulus package: “A year ago today, President Obama and the Democratic leadership in Congress rammed through one of the most ineffective, wasteful and unpopular legislative measures when the so-called economic stimulus bill was signed into law – a bill that was supposed to stimulate the economy and create jobs. There was no doubt at the time that Americans were suffering and the country’s economic situation was dire, but I believed then, and continue to believe today, that the Democrats’ stimulus bill was the wrong plan. “The way to promote economic growth and create jobs is through tax cuts and investment in projects like transportation and infrastructure. But efforts like these made up less than a third of the President’s economic stimulus bill, while the rest was either long-term liberal expansions in the size and scope of the federal government, money to Democrats’ pet projects, and wasteful or duplicative spending. In fact, less than 40 percent of the money has been spent so far, and only $8.6 billion has been spent on transportation projects. Furthermore, almost $4 billion in economic stimulus funds are going to programs that President Obama wants to eliminate or cut in his new budget. This simply makes no sense. “The Administration promised Texans that the stimulus would create 269,000 jobs. But our state, while faring much better than most other states, has actually lost 167,600 jobs in the past year, with unemployment climbing from 6.4 percent a year ago to 8.3 percent today. Nationwide, the stimulus was touted as a measure that would create 3.5 million jobs and ensure that the unemployment rate would stay below 8 percent, but in fact, more than 2.8 million Americans have lost their jobs since the bill was signed into law this day a year ago, and unemployment has risen from 7.6 percent then to 10 percent today. “The fact is, only a handful of Americans – six percent – actually believe the stimulus has created jobs, and the vast majority of Americans think that the $862 billion in their hard-earned tax dollars that went to the stimulus was wasted money. While President Obama, Vice President Biden and Speaker Pelosi continue to assert that their stimulus bill was necessary and is working, the truth is that the stimulus has been the poster-child for the ineffective and out of touch policies being proposed by the President and his Party.” NOTE: Click here to view Rep. Burgess’ statement on passage of the stimulus a year ago. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
02.10.2010	"Today the State of Texas and the entire nation lost a dedicated public servant, and one of the most colorful members to serve in recent memory, in former Congressman Charlie Wilson. He was a legendary Texan who served in the halls of Congress for nearly three decades, and I am saddened by his passing. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends." share: f t "Today the State of Texas and the entire nation lost a dedicated public servant, and one of the most colorful members to serve in recent memory, in former Congressman Charlie Wilson. He was a legendary Texan who served in the halls of Congress for nearly three decades, and I am saddened by his passing. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends."
02.08.2010	"I am saddened by the passing of United States Congressman John Murtha. His service to our country, both in the Marine Corps and Congress, should serve as an inspiration to the next generation of Americans who are considering public service." share: f t "I am saddened by the passing of United States Congressman John Murtha. His service to our country, both in the Marine Corps and Congress, should serve as an inspiration to the next generation of Americans who are considering public service."
02.05.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement today as the Department of Labor announced that the US unemployment rate fell to 9.7%: “Today’s announcement that the unemployment rate has fallen to below 10 percent is good news. This means more people who have been looking for work have found employment. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement today as the Department of Labor announced that the US unemployment rate fell to 9.7%: “Today’s announcement that the unemployment rate has fallen to below 10 percent is good news. This means more people who have been looking for work have found employment. However, no one must mistake this for meaning that the jobs problem has been resolved. The focus of this country’s leaders clearly needs to be on jobs and job creation – and Republicans have proposed common-sense ideas that don’t break the bank. At the same time, the federal government must begin now to address the record deficit and debt facing our country. American families and businesses are practicing smart fiscal conservatism during these tough economic times, and the federal government should do the same.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
02.04.2010	“Today’s PAYGO vote was nothing more than a vote to extend the debt limit. The President proposed a budget that takes in $2.6 Trillion, but spends $3.8 Trillion. In no way are we paying as we go – this is deficit spending. Instead of working within our means, as every American family and business must do, the Congressional Democratic leadership has decided to up the limit on the taxpayer-funded credit card.” share: f t “Today’s PAYGO vote was nothing more than a vote to extend the debt limit. The President proposed a budget that takes in $2.6 Trillion, but spends $3.8 Trillion. In no way are we paying as we go – this is deficit spending. Instead of working within our means, as every American family and business must do, the Congressional Democratic leadership has decided to up the limit on the taxpayer-funded credit card.”
02.01.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement today after reviewing President Obama's Fiscal Year 2011 budget proposal: “...when an average American family is running out of money, they don’t spend more, they spend less. The federal government should be doing the same.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement today after reviewing President Obama's Fiscal Year 2011 budget proposal: “President Obama’s proposed $3.8 trillion budget is the blueprint for an expansion of unchecked government spending, increased taxes, and more added to our country’s already unsustainable deficit – precisely the opposite of what is needed and expected in the President’s budget during these tough economic times. The plan includes billions of dollars in duplicative and wasteful spending, a trillion-dollar government takeover of Americans’ health care – which has been soundly rejected by the majority of Americans time and time again – and does nothing to address our country’s out-of-control entitlements. Spending has expanded to such a degree over the last few years that cuts are needed to make any measurable impact, and I would welcome the opportunity to work in a bipartisan fashion to cut unnecessary spending. I am hopeful President Obama will listen to and incorporate good Republican ideas for how to trim the federal government’s budget to get our country back on a financially sustainable track. The President has promised in the past that he would listen to Republican ideas, but that promise has not yet been met – I hope this time is different. "The bottom line is, when an average American family is running out of money, they don’t spend more, they spend less. The federal government should be doing the same.” NOTE: Click here to view the President's propsed budget. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
01.27.2010	After months of silence – 119 days, to be exact – yesterday Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, finally received a letter from the White House in response to his September 30, 2009, request for information on meetings at the White House relating to health care reform. Specifically, Burgess asked for details on any deals made with health industry groups during a meeting in May, where stakeholders promised to reduce the health care cost curve by upwards of $2 Trillion, but offered limited details as to how this goal would be achieved. share: f t After months of silence – 119 days, to be exact – yesterday Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, finally received a letter from the White House in response to his September 30, 2009, request for information on meetings at the White House relating to health care reform. Specifically, Burgess asked for details on any deals made with health industry groups during a meeting in May, where stakeholders promised to reduce the health care cost curve by upwards of $2 Trillion, but offered limited details as to how this goal would be achieved. “While the Democratic Majority was ramming a health reform bill through both chambers of Congress, and Members were expected to debate these far-reaching bills, the real deals were being cut at the White House behind closed doors,” Burgess said. “How can Congress be expected to do our job when several important details about the legislation were being kept from us? I thought it was very important that Congress and the American public know who was involved in the White House negotiations and what was agreed to, and I still do.” In May 2009, representatives from six health industry organizations with deep interests in health care reform - Advanced Medical Technology Association, the American Medical Association, America’s Health Insurance Plans, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the American Hospital Association, and the Service Employees International Union – met at the White House. When the participants emerged from the meeting, an agreement was announced that they would work to decrease by 1.5 percentage points the annual health care spending growth rate. Since then, however, questions from Burgess as to how this would be accomplished have been left unanswered. In his second attempt to retrieve the information, Burgess introduced in December H. Res. 983, a Resolution of Inquiry directing the President to release, once and for all, the requested information. That resolution is set to be marked-up in the House Energy and Commerce Committee today at 2:00 p.m. Eastern. Yesterday, less than 24 hours before the mark-up, he finally received a letter from White House Counsel, which was accompanied by almost 80 pages of already-public White House visitor logs, pages printed off the White House web site, and text of speeches and press statements from the White House – a far cry from the information requested in Burgess’ September letter. To view the letter and information sent by the White House, click here. “When it became clear to me that the White House had no intention of responding to my letter, this resolution of inquiry, a powerful yet uncommon tool for getting information, became my only option,” Burgess said. “It is very important that details on any negotiations made behind closed doors are made public and available for all to see. The integrity of the process and of health reform legislation is at stake.” “President Obama promised to run the most transparent and open Administration in history, and his decision to hoard this information from Congress and the American people is dishonorable,” Burgess concluded. WHAT: Mark-Up Of H. Res. 983, Burgess’ Resolution of Inquiry on Health Reform Secret Deals WHEN: TODAY – Wednesday, January 27, 2010 - 2:00 p.m. Eastern WHERE: House Energy and Commerce Committee Room, 2123 Rayburn House Office Building NOTE: A media availability will be held outside of the Committee Room immediately following the conclusion of the mark-up. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
01.13.2010	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., (R-Texas), released the following statement regarding the earthquake in Haiti: "The reports out of Haiti show the effects of a devastating earthquake on a country already hard-pressed to meet its own needs. My thoughts and prayers are with those harmed by the earthquake, those searching for loved ones, the emergency and medical personnel tasked with assisting the thousands who have been affected, and the entire international community who is working to provide aid to Haiti. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., (R-Texas), released the following statement regarding the earthquake in Haiti: "The reports out of Haiti show the effects of a devastating earthquake on a country already hard-pressed to meet its own needs. My thoughts and prayers are with those harmed by the earthquake, those searching for loved ones, the emergency and medical personnel tasked with assisting the thousands who have been affected, and the entire international community who is working to provide aid to Haiti. "The United States always responds when the world is faced with tragedies, and this time is no different. If you would like to do more to help, I encourage you to visit the American Red Cross website at www.RedCross.org." HOW YOU CAN HELP: The US State Department has set up a website solely focused on relief efforts in Haiti - http://www.state.gov/haitiquake/. Also coordinate through the State Department is an effort for those who would like to send immediate monetary assistance. You can text "HAITI" to "90999" and $10 will be given automatically to the Red Cross, and charged to your cell phone bill. Information on other organizations responding to the situation in Haiti are available at www.reliefweb.int, and at USAID's website - www.usaid.gov - keyword: Donations. The Center for International Disaster Information (CIDI) website - www.cidi.org - may also be helpful in finding ways to help. To reach CIDI by phone, you may call their hotline at (703) 276-1914. If you have a significant in-kind contribution to make – such as a plane, a cargo ship, a team of doctors, portable generators, or large-scale water purification equipment – please log on to the website of the Center for International Disaster Information at www.cidi.org. The Center for International Disaster Information is a partner organization of the US Agency for International Development (USAID) that can help put usable donations on the ground in Haiti.
12.31.2009	As 2009 comes to a close, now is a good time to look back at the past year and reflect on not only the difficult times, but also the good. There are many lessons to be learned from the past twelve months, and by taking those lessons into the new year, we will be a stronger nation and people. So, on the eve a new year and a new decade, I would like to wish you all a happy and healthy 2010. share: f t As 2009 comes to a close, now is a good time to look back at the past year and reflect on not only the difficult times, but also the good. There are many lessons to be learned from the past twelve months, and by taking those lessons into the new year, we will be a stronger nation and people. So, on the eve a new year and a new decade, I would like to wish you all a happy and healthy 2010.
12.24.2009	I would like to wish all of you a very Merry Christmas as you settle in with family and friends to celebrate the holiday season this year. We must also not forget our brave men and women fighting overseas who are away from their loved ones, and always remember that it is because of their sacrifices that we are able to enjoy our freedoms and this joyous holiday season. On behalf on myself, my family, and my staff, Merry Christmas. share: f t I would like to wish all of you a very Merry Christmas as you settle in with family and friends to celebrate the holiday season this year. We must also not forget our brave men and women fighting overseas who are away from their loved ones, and always remember that it is because of their sacrifices that we are able to enjoy our freedoms and this joyous holiday season. On behalf on myself, my family, and my staff, Merry Christmas.
12.22.2009	Congressman Burgess welcomes fellow doctor Congressman Parker Griffith of Alabama to the Republican Party. In his statement, Dr. Burgess expressed his appreciation for the asset that Dr. Griffith will be to the House Republican Conference in the days ahead. share: f t Congressman Burgess released the following statement after Congressman Parker Griffith (Alabama) announced he will switch to the Republican Party: "Today I join my fellow Republican doctors in welcoming another doctor to the House Republican Conference. Dr. Griffith has already established credentials as a conservative voice with in Congress and his expertise and intellect will be a valuable asset to our conference. The road ahead is full of significant challenges and I am grateful that we can call on Dr. Griffith's knowledge and leadership in the days ahead."
12.21.2009	Congressman Burgess released the statement below following the Senate's party-line vote to end debate on Harry Reid's health care reform bill: "A 1 AM cloture vote on the longest evening of the year moves this monstrosity of a health care bill one step closer to its very damaging conclusion. No matter that it is opposed by an overwhelming majority of the American people, no matter that it requires multiple ear-marks and carve-outs and outright graft to purchase its passage and move this bill ever closer to the president's desk. share: f t Congressman Burgess released the statement below following the Senate's party-line vote to end debate on Harry Reid's health care reform bill:"A 1 AM cloture vote on the longest evening of the year moves this monstrosity of a health care bill one step closer to its very damaging conclusion. No matter that it is opposed by an overwhelming majority of the American people, no matter that it requires multiple ear-marks and carve-outs and outright graft to purchase its passage and move this bill ever closer to the president's desk."This bill no longer has anything to do with health care. It is purely about ideology, and strengthening a hold on political power. President Obama has asserted that he wanted this done during his first year in office, and it appears that he will get his wish - even though this bill is not the wish of the American people he was elected to serve."With this early-morning passage in the Senate, the process now moves inexorably towards Christmas Eve and ultimate Senate passage. While every American should maintain vigilant and involved in this process, the opportunities for any rational thought in the Senate appear to be lost. It remains to be seen what political strategy will be pursued, but some legislative product will have to come back through the House of Representatives. I hope Americans keep this in focus and speak clearly to their elected representatives prior to their taking this very historic vote."Very much like the fabled Christmas story by Charles Dickens, this ghost of Christmas future may represent only what will be if the people do not make their wishes known."
12.16.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) has introduced H.R. 4312, the DC Student Opportunity and Choice Act. This bill would make it possible for students in Washington, DC to continue to enroll in the popular and successful DC school voucher program. “The DC school voucher program has been undeniably successful for the students who have had the opportunity to participate, so it would make sense to continue the program and expand it to even more students in the District of Columbia. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) has introduced H.R. 4312, the DC Student Opportunity and Choice Act. This bill would make it possible for students in Washington, DC to continue to enroll in the popular and successful DC school voucher program. “The DC school voucher program has been undeniably successful for the students who have had the opportunity to participate, so it would make sense to continue the program and expand it to even more students in the District of Columbia,” Burgess said. “President Obama’s signature may soon be on a bill that would, unfortunately, eliminate the program in only a few years, but this can be avoided.” In the FY 2010 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Bill, which includes funding for the District of Columbia, the DC school voucher program is provided funding to continue to operate for the students currently enrolled. However, the amount of funding appropriated to the program makes it clear that the objective is to eventually end the program by not allowing new students to enroll. Burgess’ bill would eliminate the current language in the FY 2010 Financial Services Appropriations Bill that relates to the DC school voucher program. This would ensure that the program could not be terminated due to lack of funding. With the elimination of the language, new DC students can continue to be enrolled in the program. “My bill would strike the DC school voucher-terminating language and ensure that future students will continue to have more choices and benefit from the opportunities so many have experienced through the program.” The bill has four original co-sponsors: Congressman John Boehner (R-Ohio), the Republican Leader in the House of Representatives, Congressman John Kline (R-Minnesota), Ranking Member of the House Education and Labor Committee, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-California), Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-New Jersey), a member of the House Appropriations Committee. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
12.16.2009	Yesterday Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) introduced H.R. 4315, the United States War Bonds Act of 2009, which authorizes the issuance of United States War Bonds to aid in the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. “Our brave men and women in uniform and their families have given the ultimate sacrifice to defend and protect our country, and war bonds are a way for Americans to show support for our soldiers and their mission." share: f t Yesterday Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) introduced H.R. 4315, the United States War Bonds Act of 2009, which authorizes the issuance of United States War Bonds to aid in the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. “Our brave men and women in uniform and their families have given the ultimate sacrifice to defend and protect our country, and war bonds are a way for Americans to show support for our soldiers and their mission,” Burgess said. “So many times I am asked, ‘how can I, as an average American, express my support for our nation’s service members fighting abroad?’ War bonds send a strong message to those fighting to preserve freedom that they have our unwavering and steadfast backing.” During World War II, more than 85 million Americans, roughly half the population then, purchased war bonds totaling $185.7 billion, and Burgess’ bill hopes to mirror the same successes that were experienced with war bonds back then. H.R. 4315 authorizes the Treasury Secretary to issue and sell war bonds to fund operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other military operations abroad identified by the Secretary of Defense as being part of the international conflicts against terrorism. War bonds are also an alternative to increasing taxes or borrowing from future generations to fund current war efforts. “War bonds were a successful source of revenue during World War II and allowed American citizens to affirmatively support our troops and the effort,” Burgess said. “War bonds are also fiscally responsible and a smart way to invest money during a time of economic downturn.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
12.14.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) has introduced a resolution calling for the immediate firing of the Obama Administration-appointed Safe Schools Czar, Kevin Jennings. Burgess’ resolution, H.Res. 966, cites a reading list and recorded tapings from a conference sponsored by Jennings that promote sexual activities between children and adults. “The appointment of Kevin Jennings as, of all things, the Safe Schools Czar, is very concerning. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) has introduced a resolution calling for the immediate firing of the Obama Administration-appointed Safe Schools Czar, Kevin Jennings. Burgess’ resolution, H.Res. 966, cites a reading list and recorded tapings from a conference sponsored by Jennings that promote sexual activities between children and adults. “The appointment of Kevin Jennings as, of all things, the Safe Schools Czar, is very concerning. His support for extremely inappropriate sexual education programs and his promotion of these programs to young school-aged children should not be tolerated,” Burgess said. “If President Obama believes a Safe Schools Czar is necessary, the post must be held by an individual who does not promote criminal behavior and will defend American values.” H.Res. 966 states: Whereas, on December 11, 2009, The Washington Times reported that Kevin Jennings was involved in promoting a reading list for children 13 years old or older that made the most explicit sex between children and adults seem normal and acceptable; Whereas recorded tapings from conferences previously sponsored by Kevin Jennings had presenters explicitly conveying to adolescents certain types of sexual behavior; Whereas Kevin Jennings has praised Harry Hay, a vocal supporter of the North American Man Boy Love Association (NAMBLA); and Whereas Kevin Jennings in his capacity as `Safe Schools Czar' may not promote criminal behavior: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives-- (1) considers the behavior of a `Safe Schools Czar' promoting sexual relationships between adults and children reprehensible; (2) supports the belief that any and all who occupy the position of `Safe Schools Czar' should not promote criminal behavior; and (3) calls on the President and the Secretary of Education to find an immediate replacement for Kevin Jennings. Congressman Burgess also delivered a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives reiterating his concerns with Mr. Jennings holding the post of Safe Schools Czar because of his past activities and wrote a letter to President Obama and Education Secretary Arne Duncan calling for the immediate firing of Mr. Jennings. NOTE: To view the video, click here. To view the letter, click here. To view the Washington Times editorial mentioned above, click here. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
12.11.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after voting “no” on H.R. 4173, Barney Frank’s financial regulatory reform legislation: "This bill, H.R. 4173, is nothing more than a liberal expansion of the federal government that adds another layer of bureaucracy without giving any real value for taxpayers’ dollars.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after voting “no” on H.R. 4173, Barney Frank’s financial regulatory reform legislation: “Following the meltdown of 2008, there was broad agreement that the causes of the crisis should be examined and appropriate changes should be made to ensure that it never happened again. We have been told by Democrats that this bill would do that – but it won’t. There are too many carve-outs and exceptions for those the Democrats aim to protect for this bill to be effective. At the same time, the drastic reach by the heavy hand of the federal government that this bill allows is not what we need either. This bill also includes the creation of TARP II, which makes permanent the $700 billion bailout, which I voted against, and which I adamantly oppose. “I am thankful that all five of my amendments were approved by the House and included in this bill. My intent with these amendments was to make bill better, but they did not make it good enough. “This bill does nothing to stem the tide of what caused the collapse of 2008, but instead places new federal regulations, which will create a more hostile environment for businesses, and therefore cripple job creation. Furthermore, this bill creates a permanent TARP to bail out bad actors. The first TARP should never have passed -- and I voted against the bail out. Let's forget Wall Street versus Main Street and focus on helping people who live on Oak Street and Elm Street. There is no reason why a permanent bail out fund should be created. This bill, H.R. 4173, is nothing more than a liberal expansion of the federal government that adds another layer of bureaucracy without giving any real value for taxpayers’ dollars.”
12.02.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has named area leaders to serve on his 2009-2010 Service Academy Advisory Board. The board’s purpose is to comprehensively screen and interview high school and college applicants wishing to receive a congressional nomination to one of the U.S. service academies. The board then makes recommendations to Burgess for final review and nominations are submitted to the individual service academies for appointment consideration. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has named area leaders to serve on his 2009-2010 Service Academy Advisory Board. The board’s purpose is to comprehensively screen and interview high school and college applicants wishing to receive a congressional nomination to one of the U.S. service academies. The board then makes recommendations to Burgess for final review and nominations are submitted to the individual service academies (U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY; U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD; U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY) for appointment consideration. “One of the privileges I have serving in the United States Congress is the opportunity to nominate outstanding young individuals from the 26th District to our nation’s service academies,” Burgess said. “I am pleased to be joined in this responsibility by a stellar group of former military, education and civic leaders serving on the Advisory Board. In this tumultuous time in our nation’s history, many young people in our area have expressed their interest in serving their country by attending one of our nation’s service academies. After a rigorous selection process, I was grateful to receive excellent recommendations from this outstanding board.” Retired Air Force Lt. General Charles R. Hamm serves as Chairman of the Board. “General Hamm’s highly regarded service as the former Superintendent of the U.S. Air Force Academy enables him to capably lead the Board,” Burgess noted. The twelve-member board met earlier in November to advise Burgess upon the selection of qualified service academy candidates. “I know how serious Congressman Burgess takes his responsibility to nominate highly qualified young people to the academies and working with this distinguished board, I believe we were able to recommend the right people to him for consideration,” said General Hamm. Members of the 2009-2010 26th Congressional District Service Academy Advisory Board are: LtGen Charles R. Hamm, USAF (Ret.), Chair of Argyle Former Superintendent of USAFA TX-26 Congressional Veteran Commendation, 2005 National War College, 1972 Air Command and Staff College, 1969 M.S., Auburn University, 1969 B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1956 Mrs. Elaine Emery of Lewisville Medical Center of Lewisville Board of Trustees Children’s Advocacy Center of Denton Co. Board of Directors Christian Community Action Board of Directors B.S., University of Oklahoma, 1968 COL Marc Hildenbrand, U.S. Army (Ret.) of Denton Vice President of Infrastructure Development, Hillwood International Energy Commanding Officer, 937th Engineer Group (Combat), 3rd Infantry Division, Operation Enduring Freedom-Iraq Executive Officer to Commanding General, Army Corps of Engineers Senior Military Aide Secretary of the Army MMAS, U.S. Army Command and General Staff College, 1992 MS, Arizona State University, 1987 BS, U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1979 Mr. J. Mark Lambright of Flower Mound Chief Executive Officer, HealthPoints University of Texas at Dallas School of Mgmt. Board of Advisors MBA, Finance, The Wharton School, Univ. of PA, 1983 B.S. U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD, 1975 Dr. Robert G. Landolt of Fort Worth Professor of Chemistry, Texas Wesleyan University, Fort Worth, 1981-Present Department Chairman, 1981-85, 1990-95 Distinguished Visiting Professor of Chemistry, U.S. Air Force Academy, 2004-05 Ph.D., University of Texas at Austin, 1965 B.A., Austin College, 1961 COL Pete Lane, USAF (Ret.) of Denton Visiting Lecturer-Retired, Department of History, University of North Texas M.A., 1969 & Ph.D., 1972, University of Washington-Seattle B.S., U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO, 1961 Mr. Kevin R. Purnell of Lantana Project Manager, Siemens Industry, Inc. Communications Officer, 56th Communications Squadron, Luke AFB, Arizona (2007) Lieutenant, U.S. Air Force, 2004-7 MBA, WP Carey School of Business, Arizona State University, 2007 BS, U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO, 2004 Mr. Thomas A. Russell of Flower Mound Aerospace Consultant/Owner, The Prime Connection Southern Region Director, Honeywell Aerospace Marketing Manager for Strategic Systems, Honeywell Space Systems Division Manager, Honeywell Business Development: US Army Ammunition Research and Development Command, Picatinny Arsenal, NJ; US Army Communications Electronics Command, Fort Monmouth, NJ Assistant Professor of Military Science, New Mexico State University Commander, Three Infantry Companies, 9th Infantry Div., Mekong Delta, South Vietnam Captain, U.S. Army Infantry Officer, Airborne Ranger B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1963 MajGen Mary Saunders USAF (Ret.) of Denton Executive Director, Leadership Institute, Texas Woman's University Former Vice Director, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) 34 years of service, USAF Former Director of Supply, U.S. Air Force/Pentagon Graduate, Air War College, Maxwell Air Force Base, AL M.A., Rider University, Lawrenceville, NJ B.S., Texas Woman's University, 1970 CAPT Peter Stamps, USNR of Fort Worth Quality Assurance Manager, North America, Hanson Pressure Pipe, Inc. Former Academy Board Member, U.S. Senator Rod Grams (MN) MBA, University of Phoenix, 1999 Graduate, Naval War College, Newport, RI BSME, U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD, 1985 Mr. Peter Strohla of Frisco Director, EDGE Process Improvement, Horizon Lines MBA, University of Tennessee, 2003 B.S., U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY, 1985 Mr. Richard Walker of North Richland Hills Finance Manager, Customer Support and Services, Bell Helicopter Past State Vice President, Air Force Association B.S., Oklahoma State University, 1982 NOTE: Attached photo includes: (L-R) Marc Hildenbrand, Peter Stamps, Rich Walker, Pete Lane, Tom Russell, Elaine Emery, Congressman Burgess, Charlie Hamm, Mary Saunders, Mark Lambright, Bob Landolt, Kevin Purnell, Pete Strohla
12.01.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) released the following statement in anticipation of President Obama’s announcement tonight that he will send more troops and resources to fight the war in Afghanistan: “I welcome tonight’s news from President Obama that he has finally made a decision and will outline his recommendation on how to go forward in Afghanistan. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) released the following statement in anticipation of President Obama’s announcement tonight that he will send more troops and resources to fight the war in Afghanistan: “I welcome tonight’s news from President Obama that he has finally made a decision and will outline his recommendation on how to go forward in Afghanistan. It is clear that the situation in Afghanistan requires additional troops, but I question the president’s decision to send only 30,000 troops, when Gen. McChrystal’s recommendations ranged from 40,000 to 60,000 more troops sent to the region. If the number is indeed lower than what was recommended by Gen. McChrystal, the question must be asked: is the president providing the appropriate level of troop support? Further, will there be the appropriate rules of engagement to allow our troops to do their job? “This war can be won, and it will be won by the U.S. military, along with assistance from our allies. As we move forward with the process, Congress must show unequivocally that we support the actions of the brave men and women in combat in both Afghanistan and Iraq. Their mission is our mission. Today, after many months of slow-walking the decision, it appears President Obama has made his recommendations. Now it is incumbent upon Congress to ensure that proper attention is being paid to the needs of our troops in harm’s way.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
11.26.2009	This Thanksgiving, more than in years past, it is important that we all take a moment to think of the things we have for which to be thankful. For me, it is family, the gift of living in the United States of America, a strong and capable military, freedom and liberty. I am also thankful and very honored to have the opportunity to represent you, the constituents of the 26th Congressional District of Texas, in the United States Congress. This year, on behalf of myself, my family and my staff, I want to wish you all a happy and safe holiday, and God Bless America. share: f t This Thanksgiving, more than in years past, it is important that we all take a moment to think of the things we have for which to be thankful. For me, it is family, the gift of living in the United States of America, a strong and capable military, freedom and liberty. I am also thankful and very honored to have the opportunity to represent you, the constituents of the 26th Congressional District of Texas, in the United States Congress. This year, on behalf of myself, my family and my staff, I want to wish you all a happy and safe holiday, and God Bless America.
11.19.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after voting “yes” on H.R. 3961, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act: “This bill is not the best way to fix the long-standing physician reimbursement problem. The appropriate resolution is H.R. 3693, the Ensuring the Future Physician Workforce Act, which would finally make things right for our nation’s doctors. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after voting “yes” on H.R. 3961, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act: “This bill is not the best way to fix the long-standing physician reimbursement problem. The appropriate resolution is H.R. 3693, the Ensuring the Future Physician Workforce Act, which would finally make things right for our nation’s doctors. I also do not think it is right to continue to pass massive spending bills that add to our country’s record deficit with no rational payment plan in place. “However, I think it is very unlikely that today’s bill will ever become law, since the Senate has already soundly rejected a similar plan. Because of this, today’s vote is largely symbolic, and with my “yes” vote, I stand committed to America’s doctors, the millions of seniors they care for, and TRICARE recipients, to fix this problem.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
11.11.2009	"While tens of thousands of brave men and women continue to fight for and defend our freedoms, today we pause to remember the sacrifices made by our veterans. This nation is truly blessed to have had such fine men and women answer the call to duty, and we owe a tremendous debt to all of those who have worn the uniform. Recognizing November 11th as Veterans Day, as well as yesterday’s memorial service at Fort Hood, serve as symbols of that appreciation. share: f t "While tens of thousands of brave men and women continue to fight for and defend our freedoms, today we pause to remember the sacrifices made by our veterans. This nation is truly blessed to have had such fine men and women answer the call to duty, and we owe a tremendous debt to all of those who have worn the uniform. Recognizing November 11th as Veterans Day, as well as yesterday’s memorial service at Fort Hood, serve as symbols of that appreciation. Our nation’s veterans are men and women of outstanding character, embodying the spirit of dedication and patriotism. Today I join the residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District, and all Americans, in thanking our veterans for their service to the United States of America, and honoring their devotion to God and country."
11.10.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, has introduced H.R. 3942, the Veterans Health Care Stamp Act, to provide additional funding for veteran health care services. “A Veterans Health Care Stamp would provide the American public with an individual opportunity to help care for our men and women who have served their country honorably through military service,” Burgess said. “With this legislation, we can join together to give back to those who have given so much.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, has introduced H.R. 3942, the Veterans Health Care Stamp Act, to provide additional funding for veteran health care services. “A Veterans Health Care Stamp would provide the American public with an individual opportunity to help care for our men and women who have served their country honorably through military service,” Burgess said. “With this legislation, we can join together to give back to those who have given so much.” Under the bi-partisan act, the optional first-class stamp will be available for a slightly higher cost than the first-class rate. The additional funds raised through the purchase of this stamp would be sent to a program within the Department of Veterans Affairs dedicated to increasing veteran’s access to health care. The legislation is supported by the American Red Cross and the Non Commissioned Officers Association of the United States of America. “The Veterans Health Care Stamp Act is built upon the notion that Americans are a patriotic and proud group that, when given the opportunity, will support the health of our nation’s veterans,” said Burgess. “This bill gives each American the opportunity to directly support America’s bravest men and women.” Co-Sponsors: Rep. Robert Brady (D-Pennsylvania) Rep. Donna Christensen (Virgin Islands) Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-California) Rep. Bart Gordon (D-Tennessee) Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-Arizona) Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-California) Rep. Kenny Marchant (R-Texas) Rep. Jim Marshall (D-Georgia) Rep. Betty McCollum (D-Minnesota) Rep. Thaddeus McCotter (R-Michigan) Rep. Ed Pastor (D-Arizona) Rep. Todd Platts (R-Pennsylvania) Rep. Illeana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Florida) Rep. Pete Sessions (R-Texas) Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-Illinois) Rep. Rob Wittman (R-Virginia) Rep. Ed Whitfield (R-Kentucky) Rep. Frank Wolf (R-Virginia) Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
11.10.2009	Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville) recognized the three veterans who received this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC was created five years ago to honor the distinguished living veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. The three recipients of this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation are Corporal Arthur F. Berg (U.S. Army) of Lewisville, Colonel Ernest L. Isbell (U.S. Army) of Highland Village and Captain Hank Scheible (U.S. Air Force) of Denton. share: f t Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville) recognized the three veterans who received this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC was created five years ago to honor the distinguished living veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. The three recipients of this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation are Corporal Arthur F. Berg (U.S. Army) of Lewisville, Colonel Ernest L. Isbell (U.S. Army) of Highland Village and Captain Hank Scheible (U.S. Air Force) of Denton. “These extraordinary individuals were honored for their patriotic, dedicated service in the Armed Forces of the United States and continued beneficial service to their communities,” said Burgess. “They have not only served honorably in our armed forces, but have also continued their dedication to the nation by serving the people of their communities.” This year’s commendations were presented at the seventh annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association and the City of Highland Village. Burgess was unable to attend the Highland Village event due to his attendance at the Fort Hood memorial service, so LtGen Charles R. Hamm, USAF (Ret.) who chaired the Congressional Veteran Commendation Review Board and was a past recipient, presented this year’s commendations on behalf of Congressman Burgess. Other members of the Review Board and past recipients as well are Johnnie Bulen, Reby Cary, Thomas Blagg and Woodrow Wilson Burch. In addition to recognizing this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation recipients, the family of Captain Robert J. Widmer, Army Air Corps, was presented the posthumous award of their father’s Distinguished Flying Cross (2nd Oak Leaf Cluster with Valor) for his heroism while participating in aerial flight over Hungary on April 13, 1944. Also honored today was Mrs. Betty Jo Streff Reed of North Richland Hills, for her pioneering service as a Woman’s Airforce Service Pilot (WASP) during WWII. Mrs. Reed was presented a signed copy of House Resolution 2014, which awards a Congressional Gold Medal to the WASPs. Congressman Burgess was a co-sponsor of the bill which was signed into law this summer. “Thank you again to all the veterans for your service to the United State of America,” Burgess said. “On behalf of the citizens of the 26th District and of a grateful nation, we are forever in your debt.” PHOTO: (pictured l-r) Hank Scheible, Ernest L. Isbell, Betty Jo Streff Reed, Arthur F. Berg, Robert J. Widmer, Jr., Charlie Hamm
11.07.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus and a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3962, Speaker Pelosi’s government takeover of America’s health care system: “This country needed a 21st Century vision, and we got recycled 20th Century ideas. Tonight, Congress missed an historic opportunity to pass the right kind of health care reform.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus and a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3962, Speaker Pelosi’s government takeover of America’s health care system: “America’s doctors were pretty clear what they needed in health care reform to better serve their patients. They want to see medical liability reform. They desperately need a fix to the payment formula in Medicare. And they wanted the right to be able to talk to each other about negotiating with insurance companies. “After all, we’re going to ask doctors to be our partners in this brave new world of health care reform, so the least we can do is give them the tools they need. How else can we expect doctors to deliver high-quality care at a lower cost? “But what happened? Can doctors negotiate with insurance companies and talk about it with other doctors? Not in this bill. Medicare payment reform? Maybe we’ll take that up sometime in the future. Medical liability? A smidgen of medical liability reform in this bill, but nothing compared to what doctors actually need. “This country needed a 21st Century vision, and we got recycled 20th Century ideas. Tonight, Congress missed an historic opportunity to pass the right kind of health care reform.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
11.06.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announcement that the national unemployment rate reached 10.2 percent in October: “Last week economists hesitantly rejoiced because of a positive GDP, but today’s rising unemployment numbers show that our country’s economy will not fully recover until Americans are back at work. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announcement that the national unemployment rate reached 10.2 percent in October: “Last week economists hesitantly rejoiced because of a positive GDP, but today’s rising unemployment numbers show that our country’s economy will not fully recover until Americans are back at work. “A jobless recovery is no recovery at all, and President Obama and Speaker Pelosi’s policies continue to benefit Wall Street and leave average Americans struggling on Main Street. From cap and trade to health care reform, Congress continues to exacerbate an economic environment that is unstable for businesses trying to create jobs. “We don’t need another federal program, we don’t need another federal policy, and we certainly don’t need another federal stimulus. What we need to do is stop punishing success and damaging the environment that businesses need to grow and add jobs.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
11.05.2009	Today’s shooting at Fort Hood Army Base in Killeen, Texas is shocking and deeply saddening. My thoughts and prayers are with the soldiers and civilians at Fort Hood and their families, the nurses and doctors who attended to the wounded during this emergency, and all Americans who are struggling to understand this tragic incident. share: f t Today’s shooting at Fort Hood Army Base in Killeen, Texas is shocking and deeply saddening. My thoughts and prayers are with the soldiers and civilians at Fort Hood and their families, the nurses and doctors who attended to the wounded during this emergency, and all Americans who are struggling to understand this tragic incident.
11.05.2009	"You have to make sure your voices are heard. We heard from you this summer, it was like an inoculation, it was like a vaccination to prevent the illness knows as PelosiCare. But when we came back in September, that immunity started to wane, and it started to get weak. So this is our booster shot. Keep it up all weekend – we need you. God Bless America." share: f t "You have to make sure your voices are heard. We heard from you this summer, it was like an inoculation, it was like a vaccination to prevent the illness knows as PelosiCare. But when we came back in September, that immunity started to wane, and it started to get weak. So this is our booster shot. Keep it up all weekend – we need you. God Bless America."
11.02.2009	Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) today delivered copies of H.R. 3962, the latest version of House Democrats’ health care reform bill unveiled by Speaker Pelosi last week, to the North Richland Hills Library. The bill is expected to be brought to the House floor for a vote sometime this week, and Burgess encourages North Texans to read the massive bill and contact him with their concerns before the vote. share: f t Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) today delivered copies of H.R. 3962, the latest version of House Democrats’ health care reform bill unveiled by Speaker Pelosi last week, to the North Richland Hills Library. The bill is expected to be brought to the House floor for a vote sometime this week, and Burgess encourages North Texans to read the massive bill and contact him with their concerns before the vote. “North Texans should have the opportunity to see this bill for themselves and make up their own minds,” Burgess said. “I thought it was important to have the bill here - yes, you can access the bill online, but to come see it in its physical entirety is important.” After weeks of closed doors meetings inside the Capitol, Speaker Nancy Pelosi unveiled the bill on the steps of the U.S. Capitol last Thursday, with a vote on final passage expected as early as this Thursday. Burgess pledged to read the health care reform bill before voting, and he has fulfilled that promise and is looking forward to hearing from North Texans on their thoughts about the legislation. “A bill that is this sweeping and this far-reaching will affect every single North Texan and American, and not just for the next few years. The next two or three generations of Americans will be affected by this legislation, should it become law. So I encourage all North Texans to access the bill online, come visit the library – whatever method you can use to read the bill,” Burgess said. Several North Texans, including former and current local elected officials, attended today’s event and pledged to read the bill. Statistics for H.R. 3962: 1,990 pages Total cost: $1.055 trillion New Taxes: $572 billion Cuts to Medicare: $426 billion “Fees” appears in the bill 103 times “Regulation” appears in the bill 181 times “Tax” appears in the bill 214 times “Shall” appears in the bill 3,425 times To read the bill online, click here. To learn Congressman Burgess’ thoughts on the bill, click here. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.30.2009	Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) will share the House Majority’s massive health care overhaul bill, H.R. 3962, to North Texans. Burgess will leave a copy of the legislation at the North Richland Hills Library on Monday, November 2, at 10:00 AM, so North Texans have a chance to read the 1,990-page bill. After weeks of closed doors meetings inside the Capitol, Speaker Nancy Pelosi unveiled the bill on the steps outside the U.S. Capitol on Thursday, with a vote on final passage expected in the week ahead. share: f t Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) will share the House Majority’s massive health care overhaul bill, H.R. 3962, to North Texans. Burgess will leave a copy of the legislation at the North Richland Hills Library on Monday, November 2, at 10:00 AM, so North Texans have a chance to read the 1,990-page bill. After weeks of closed doors meetings inside the Capitol, Speaker Nancy Pelosi unveiled the bill on the steps outside the U.S. Capitol on Thursday, with a vote on final passage expected in the week ahead. “While Speakers Pelosi’s event was by invite only, I will not be checking IDs at the door,” Burgess said. “This event will be open to the public, and I encourage North Texans to stop by the library to read the bill.” WHAT: Burgess Delivers Copy of Democrats’ Health Care Reform Bill WHEN: Monday, November 2, 2009 9:45 AM – Media set-up 10:00 AM – Congressman Burgess Delivers Bill, Makes Remarks WHERE: North Richland Hills Library 9015 Grand Avenue North Richland Hills, TX 76180 NOTE: To read the bill online, please click here. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.29.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement today after House Democrat leaders unveiled their latest health care reform bill: “Americans from all walks of life have a story to tell about the difficulties a tough medical diagnoses has brought on, or their struggles with paying medical bills. I do not deny that reforms are needed, but Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats have simply put forth the wrong kind of reform... share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement today after House Democrat leaders unveiled their latest health care reform bill: “Americans from all walks of life have a story to tell about the difficulties a tough medical diagnoses has brought on, or their struggles with paying medical bills. I do not deny that reforms are needed, but Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats have simply put forth the wrong kind of reform. “You don’t make insurance more affordable by making it more expensive. Families will not benefit from higher taxes. Struggling small businesses will find it more difficult to afford employer-sponsored health insurance for their employees with new federal mandates and costly penalties for non-compliance. Seniors who have paid into the Medicare system for decades will see their benefits decrease. This is not health care reform. “Despite the monstrous size of the bill, the Democrats’ health care plan continues to leave out huge aspects of health care reform. Medicare doctors are facing a 20 percent cut in payments, yet nothing in today’s announced plan addresses this issue. Medical liability reform, which has greatly improved access to health care and lowered costs in Texas, is completely missing. “Furthermore, the process leading up to today in the House of Representatives has been the most secretive and opaque since I was elected to Congress in 2002. House Republicans, including the thirteen of us who are medical professionals, were denied the opportunity to participate in the legislative process from the beginning, despite our continued efforts to provide real ideas for meaningful reform based on our years of experience. Democrats have completely ignored the millions of Americans who voiced their strong opposition to a government takeover of America’s health care system by pushing ahead with a ‘public option’ and a drastic expansion of Medicaid. “I will continue my efforts to help enact pro-patient reforms to America’s health care system that will increase choice and access to health insurance and health care, lower costs, encourage patient involvement, and ensure that the world’s best health care system remains intact. House Republicans, including myself, have introduced no fewer than 100 bills that would accomplish these goals, fixing what is broken in our health care system without allowing the federal government to completely take over. I look forward to reading all 1,990 pages of this bill over the next few days and doing the work North Texans sent me to Washington to do. I will continue to fight on behalf of responsible health care solutions Americans support.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.28.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, today released the following statement after the Department of Commerce announced that the real gross domestic product (GDP) increased at an annual rate of 3.5 percent in the third quarter of 2009: “While today’s positive growth numbers are welcome news, I imagine it is hard for the millions of unemployed Americans to find relief in these numbers. We all know there can be no real recovery until Americans are working again... share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, today released the following statement after the Department of Commerce announced that the real gross domestic product (GDP) increased at an annual rate of 3.5 percent in the third quarter of 2009: “While today’s positive growth numbers are welcome news, I imagine it is hard for the millions of unemployed Americans to find relief in these numbers. We all know there can be no real recovery until Americans are working again, and I continue to believe that Washington should be focused on helping small businesses start to hire again and putting people back to work.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.21.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has scheduled a Town Hall meeting for this Saturday, October 24th, at 10:00 a.m., on the Texas Wesleyan University campus in Fort Worth. The Town Hall gives residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about the health care proposals Congress is currently considering, or any other issues. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has scheduled a Town Hall meeting for this Saturday, October 24th, at 10:00 a.m., on the Texas Wesleyan University campus in Fort Worth. The Town Hall gives residents of Texas’ 26th Congressional District the chance to learn more about the health care proposals Congress is currently considering, or any other issues. Those interested are encouraged to attend and bring questions for Congressman Burgess to answer. “I’ll be there to discuss issues currently before the United States Congress, and to hear from you on the issues that are important to you, your family, and our community,” Congressman Burgess said. “I certainly look forward to meeting you and hearing your views.” Media interested in attending must notify Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville office by calling (972) 434-9700 so adequate space may be reserved for crew members, reporters, cameras, and additional equipment. WHAT: Fort Worth Town Hall Meeting WHEN: Saturday, October 24, 2009 10:00 – 11:00 a.m. CDT WHERE: Texas Wesleyan University Ann Waggoner Fine Arts Building/Nicholas Martin Performance Hall 1309 Wesleyan Street Fort Worth, TX 76105 Campus Map: http://www.txwes.edu/aboutus/campusmap.htm Directions to Campus: http://www.txwes.edu/aboutus/drivingdirections.htm Note: No food, drink, or display of signage is allowed inside the Performance Hall. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.21.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Congresswoman Shelley Berkley (D-Nevada) today unveiled The Bone Health Promotion and Research Act, H.R. 3856. The legislation, introduced on October 20th to mark World Osteoporosis Day, establishes a comprehensive national bone health strategy focused on education, prevention and research. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Congresswoman Shelley Berkley (D-Nevada) today unveiled The Bone Health Promotion and Research Act, H.R. 3856. The legislation, introduced on October 20th to mark World Osteoporosis Day, establishes a comprehensive national bone health strategy focused on education, prevention and research. “Osteoporosis and related bone diseases pose a public health issue of enormous proportions, affecting millions of Americans and costing billions of dollars,” said Burgess. “As a physician, I diagnosed and treated many patients during my 25-years of practicing medicine in Texas, and I saw firsthand the way osteoporosis affects patients and their families. The more we can do to promote and encourage education, awareness, research, and prevention, the better.” “I had no idea I was at risk of developing osteoporosis until being diagnosed more than a decade ago. But after only 10 months of treatment, I was able to stop my bone density loss. My personal experience with osteoporosis taught me the importance of ensuring that Americans of all ages are aware of how to keep their bones strong and healthy. Prevention, early diagnosis and proper treatment of osteoporosis can all help reduce fracture rates and generate savings for our healthcare system,” said Berkley. “We know that older Americans who suffer a broken hip or other bone fracture are at greater risk of serious complications. So we can protect quality of life -- and prevent deaths -- by making sure seniors know to get screened and to seek treatment if they are diagnosed. Osteoporosis and other related diseases already cost our healthcare system $19 billion per year, so we can also reduce costs by preventing more fractures through the steps outlined in our bill.” Osteoporosis and low bone density affect more than 44 million Americans over the age of 50. Many Americans, especially seniors, are not being screened or are unaware of the steps they can take to prevent development of this disease. The Bone Health Promotion and Research Act provides for a comprehensive national bone health strategy focused on education, prevention and research. The bill would provide for greater comprehensive osteoporosis and related bone disease control and prevention programs along with national educational outreach activities. A National Bone Health Program created under the Act will augment education and outreach initiatives through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and provide state grants for comprehensive osteoporosis and related bone disease surveillance, control, and prevention programs and activities. The Berkley-Burgess bill also expands research activities of the National Institutes of Health on osteoporosis and related bone diseases. The legislation is strongly supported by the National Coalition for Osteoporosis and Related Bone Diseases – a coalition that includes the leading national bone disease organizations representing thousands of patients, research scientists, physicians and surgeons. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.13.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after the Senate Finance Committee approved, by a vote of 14-9, their version of health care reform legislation: share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after the Senate Finance Committee approved, by a vote of 14-9, their version of health care reform legislation: “Despite Chairman Baucus’ efforts to produce a bipartisan health care reform bill, the Senate Finance Committee’s product still missed the mark. I do believe reforms are needed to our country’s health care system, and Republicans and Democrats agree on many ways to accomplish reform, but this bill is not the answer. “The Senate Finance Committee bill continues Washington’s out-of-control spending spree while making drastic cuts to Medicare at the expense of America’s seniors. Even then, the bill would leave millions of Americans without insurance, place additional burdens on states, raise premiums for the majority of Americans who currently have insurance, and place new federal government mandates and penalties on individuals. According to the Texas Health and Human Services Commission, the Senate Finance Committee bill would cost Texas more than $20 billion over 10 years, and premiums for 91 percent of Texans who buy insurance in the individual market will go up. “Still missing from all of the Democrats’ health care reform proposals is meaningful medical liability reform and measures to ensure America’s patients will have a doctor to see them. “The Senate Finance Committee’s bill is not health care reform I could have supported, and throughout the remainder of the legislative process, I will continue to offer my ideas for the kind of health care reform Americans want and need.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.08.2009	U.S. Reps. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Charles A. Gonzales (D-Texas) have introduced H.Con.Res. 193, a bipartisan resolution which expresses the sense of Congress for the need to pass meaningful legislation to protect commercial and government data from data breaches. share: f t U.S. Reps. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Charles A. Gonzales (D-Texas) have introduced H.Con.Res. 193, a bipartisan resolution which expresses the sense of Congress for the need to pass meaningful legislation to protect commercial and government data from data breaches. “The safety of millions of American is put at risk because of the potential of unknown risk within the nation’s data network,” Congressman Burgess (TX-26) said. “It’s time Congress got serious about enacting meaningful legislation that would put into place needed safeguards and protections to ensure cybersecurity for our nation’s information infrastructure.” "Protecting our nation ‘against all enemies, foreign and domestic,’ is part of the oath that every Member of Congress, federal agency head, and military officer takes, and I am proud that San Antonio is home to the Twenty-Fourth Air Force who are responsible for cyber warfare in the Department of Defense," said Congressman Gonzalez (TX-20). "But keeping our data, private as well as government, safe requires the efforts of all branches of government. H.Con.Res. 193 calls on the Congress to do our part in passing strong legislation to protect us on this new front and calls on the leaders across our government to take action to ensure that no enemy ever turns the Internet against the United States." “It’s time for Congress to approve legislation that will hold both government and the private sector accountable for the security of sensitive consumer data in their possession,” said Bill Conner, CEO of Entrust Inc. “It’s in the absolute best interest of this country’s citizens that Congress passes current cybersecurity legislation. Too many innocent victims have suffered as pending regulations sit idle awaiting action, approval or support.” The resolution states that over 261 million records have been subject to a data breach in the U.S. since January 2005, and almost 10 million adults in the U.S. were victims of identity fraud in 2008. The resolution also states that data breaches occur in a wide rage of institutions, including government, military, education, health care companies, banking, and credit and financial services. What the bill does Among other things, H.Con.Res. 193 expresses the sense of Congress that: the House and Senate enact into law a meaningful national standard to protect commercial and government data requires leadership at the top levels of an organization to take an active role in ensuring that their systems are secure requires that sensitive data be protected through meaningful encryption technology encourages leaders of government agencies and private enterprises to actively manage and rigorously protect the data collected and stored within their institution by making data security a priority within the institution. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.08.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), released the following statement after voting “no” on the FY 2010 National Defense Authorization Act: share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), released the following statement after voting “no” on the FY 2010 National Defense Authorization Act: “The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) is historically the most bipartisan of any of the authorization or appropriation bills. Congress typically follows closely the requests from the President and Secretary of Defense, providing the Department of Defense the tools they need to complete their missions and continue to keep this country safe. “This year’s NDAA contains a number of provisions I fully support, including a 3.4 percent pay raise for our men and women in uniform, and a provision prohibiting the transfer of any detainees at Guantanamo Bay until the President has submitted to Congress a comprehensive plan. Further, it will bring jobs to the Dallas/Fort Worth area through the defense contractors residing in the 26th District of Texas who work for companies like Bell Helicopter, Lockheed Martin, and Raytheon. “Unfortunately, this year, the Democrats have chosen to inject divisive, controversial social policy into a bill intended solely for national security. This move has put members in the impossible situation of choosing to vote against a bill that is necessary and meets the needs of our brave men and women, or voting for a bill that expands the federal government into an area of social policy that is driven by Democratic special interests. “Democrats are willing to play political games at the expense of our national security, strapping divisive and unrelated language onto the backs of America’s soldiers. I would strongly support the bill had the legislation focused solely on the needs of the Department of Defense. I would like to have voted yes because I, unlike the Majority, have an unwavering commitment to our troops, but back-door maneuvers on an anti-constitutional provision cannot go unchecked.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
10.01.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, today introduced HR 3693, the Ensuring the Future Physician Workforce Act. The legislation would make a permanent fix to the formula Medicare uses to determine payment to doctors. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, today introduced HR 3693, the Ensuring the Future Physician Workforce Act. The legislation would make a permanent fix to the formula Medicare uses to determine payment to doctors. “Medicare’s physician fee schedule will pay doctors less next year for the same patients and services they are currently providing, and this flawed formula needs a permanent fix,” Burgess said. “Doctors around the country realize that Medicare is an unstable payer, subject to the whims of political will and influence. This legislation would give doctors and patients what they really need – a sustainable and reliable Medicare payment schedule. Under the current Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula, Medicare doctors are scheduled to receive a significant reduction in Medicare payments, over 20 percent, on January 1, 2010, and a cumulative cut of 40 percent by 2016, while costs to practice medicine are expected to rise by 20 percent. In Texas, those cuts will total more than $200 million next year alone. Congress has made short-term fixes in the past to prevent these cuts, but no serious long-term fix has been attempted. What the bill does Keeps the current formula, SGR, for the remainder of 2009 In 2010, rebases the SGR, blocking the scheduled payment decrease In 2011, moves to an updated formula linked to the Medicare Economic Index (MEI) HR 3693 also makes key improvements to the Medicare system in regards to quality reporting, Health IT, and data collection. “Millions of our nation’s seniors and the doctors who treat them agree that we need a permanent fix to the Medicare payment formula. This bill will give them the stability and assurance they deserve,” Burgess said. Effect on Texas According to the American Medical Association, repealing SGR would: Prevent a loss of $980 million in 2010 for the care of elderly and disabled Texans On average, prevent cuts of $20,000 to each Texas physician next year Prevent losses of $15 billion to Texas physicians over the next five years for the care of elderly and disabled Texans Benefit 215,760 employees, 2,455,457 Medicare patients and 852,625 TRICARE patients in Texas, who would all be affected by the 2010 scheduled cuts Original co-sponsors Members signing on as original co-sponsors of HR 3693 are: Congressman Nathan Deal (R-Georgia); Congressman Charlie Dent (R-Pennsylvania); Congressman Phil Gingrey, M.D. (R-Georgia); Congressman John Linder, D.D.S. (R-Georgia); Congressman Michael McCaul (R-Texas); Congressman Phil Roe, M.D. (R-Tennessee); Congressman Pete Sessions (R-Texas); Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Texas); and Congressman Greg Walden (R-Oregon). Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.30.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, today sent a letter to President Obama raising questions about the negotiations between the White House and health industry groups, including PhRMA and the American Hospital Association, and requested answers to his questions. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, today sent a letter to President Obama raising questions about the negotiations between the White House and health industry groups, including PhRMA and the American Hospital Association, and requested answers to his questions. “It has now been over four months since the White House announced numerous deals with major stakeholders in the health care debate to save upwards of $2 trillion in the health care system. Little to no details regarding the negotiations have been released, and recent actions and press reports have reminded me of the importance of openness and transparency throughout the legislative process,” Burgess says in the letter. A copy of the letter is below and attached: September 30, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, I write you once again on the topic of health care reform. As you know, Democrat leaders in the House of Representatives are currently working to merge the three committee bills. Meanwhile, the two Senate bills are waiting to be merged pending completion of the Senate Finance Committee’s mark-up of the Baucus plan. I have closely followed the health care debate for months, making note of actions by all parties involved, including the House, Senate, White House, advocate groups, and the health care industry. These reforms have wide-reaching implications, and you have stressed the importance of conducting business in public so that the American people are aware and involved in the process. In fact, during a Democratic Presidential primary debate on January 31, 2008, you said: "That's what I will do in bringing all parties together, not negotiating behind closed doors, but bringing all parties together, and broadcasting those negotiations on C-SPAN so that the American people can see what the choices are, because part of what we have to do is enlist the American people in this process." It has now been over four months since the White House announced numerous deals with major stakeholders in the health care debate to save upwards of $2 trillion in the health care system. Little to no details regarding the negotiations have been released, and recent actions and press reports have reminded me of the importance of openness and transparency throughout the legislative process. Roll Call reports today that negotiators working in the House to merge the three committee bills plan to trim the cost of the legislation by roughly $200 billion. I wonder what programs or services are being cut, who will be affected, and how these cuts are being decided. In the Senate Finance Committee’s mark-up, Senator Bill Nelson (D-Fl) introduced an amendment regarding drug prices in Medicare and Medicaid. During the debate on the amendment, Senator Tom Carper (D-Del), while arguing against the amendment, said “Whether you like PhRMA or not, we have a deal,” referring to the deal PhRMA cut with the White House earlier this year. In addition, within the Senate Finance Committee plan is a commission to slow the growth of Medicare spending, most likely through changes to reimbursement policy. However, hospitals would be exempt from this commission because, according to CongressDaily, “they already negotiated a cost cutting agreement” with the White House. Despite your promise to make all health care reform negotiations in public, we still have very few details on what exactly was agreed to during these highly publicized negotiations. In fact, even the stakeholders involved have, at times, seemed at odds with what was actually agreed to. But the one thing we all know is that, through press statements, many deals were made. Unfortunately, even where brief descriptions of policy goals are available, details on achieving these goals are absent, a point made by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). I am compelled to ask – how could Congress have done its’ due diligence in creating the policy before us without crucial details surrounding these deals? Were the votes we have seen in the Senate Finance Committee as of late a direct result of these backroom negotiations? Will CBO be able to actually score any of these deals to apply those cost savings to legislation? Were these negotiations in the best interests of patients? Having little to no information, I cannot judge. However, this begs even more questions. Is Congress enacting the best policy reforms for Americans, or are certain changes being made or not made because of the negotiations orchestrated by the White House? Will smaller stakeholders suffer more from our policy choices because of what larger groups may have negotiated behind closed doors? Mr. President, I do not write this letter to chide you for engaging in what I consider the most pressing debate before Congress. I applaud you for your leadership in compelling Congress to act. In order to fully understand the policy choices before us, though, we need to know what took place earlier this year during these meetings at the White House. You have made it very clear that you value transparency and have sought to make your Administration stand out in this regard. As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, so do I. The last thing I would want to see is a formal investigation of these meetings. Thus, I formally request full disclosure by the White House in the following areas regarding all meetings with health care stakeholders occurring earlier this year on the topic of securing an agreement on health reform legislation, efforts to pay for any such legislation, and undertakings to bend the out year cost curve: 1. A list of all agreements entered into, in writing or in principle, between any and all individuals associated with the White House and any and all individuals, groups, associations, companies or entities who are stakeholders in health care reform, as well as the nature, sum and substance of the agreements; and, 2. The name of any and all individuals associated with the White House who participated in the decision-making process during these negotiations, and the names, dates and titles of meetings they participated in regarding negotiations with the aforementioned entities in question one; and, 3. The names of any and all individuals, groups, associations, companies or entities who requested a meeting with the White House regarding health care reform who were denied a meeting. In our efforts to improve access to health care services, the American people expect us to act in their best interests, rather than protecting business interests of those who are interested in currying favor in Washington, DC. If these health related stakeholders have made concessions to Washington politicians without asking anything in exchange for the patients they serve, Congress and, most importantly, the American public deserve to know. Conversely, if they sought out protections for industry-specific policies, we need to know that as well. We must learn what these negotiations mean for the millions of concerned Americans. How they will be better served, including having affordable health coverage and access to the providers they need? These negotiations may have produced consensus on policy changes that are proper and needed, but Congress will never know for sure that we are acting in our constituents’ best interests until all the facts are known. I look forward to the opportunity to speak with you at your earliest convenience on this matter. Should your staff have any questions about this request please contact me or my Legislative Director J.P. Paluskiewicz at my Washington, D.C. office at 202-225-7772. Sincerely, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Member of Congress Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.23.2009	Today, during the resumed mark-up in the House Energy and Commerce Committee of HR 3200, America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) offered a bipartisan amendment to promote transparency in health care costs. share: f t Today, during the resumed mark-up in the House Energy and Commerce Committee of HR 3200, America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) offered a bipartisan amendment to promote transparency in health care costs. The amendment was approved unanimously by the Committee and aims to make health care more affordable by promoting greater transparency about the costs of health care services for patients seeking care. “This amendment is an example of Republicans and Democrats working together in a bipartisan way to make meaningful reforms to our country’s health care system. It will give patients more choices and more control over their health care decisions by providing up-front information on cost,” Burgess said. “Restaurants have menus displaying the prices of the products they offer, why should hospitals providing health care services be any different? A patient should be able to know what they are paying for and how much they will pay out-of-pocket. This is an important step in improving our country’s health care system by focusing on patients.” Health care costs are increasing at an alarming rate. In 2008, total national health expenditures rose more than 6.9 percent – two times the rate of inflation. Total spending was $2.4 trillion in 2007, or $7900 per person. Total health care spending represented 17 percent of the gross domestic product. Furthermore, U.S. health care spending is expected to increase at similar levels for the next decade, reaching $4.3 trillion in 2017, or 20 percent of GDP. “Our current health care system needs to be reformed, and this amendment is an example of Democrats and Republicans putting their differences aside to give Americans better health care. Unfortunately, with all of the bureaucracy and paperwork, few people including patients and physicians know where money is going. This makes it hard to identify the base problem and begin to help curb increasing health care costs,” said Rep. Green. “This amendment will be a first step in a long-term solution to clear up the confusion, and will let us move towards affordable, quality health care for all Americans.” Reps. Burgess and Green introduced HR 2249, the Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act, on May 5, 2009. The amendment is based largely on this bill, but goes a step further to provide consumers more information on out-of-pocket costs. The American Hospital Association notes that there is evidence of the ongoing success of states and state hospital associations to collect and disseminate hospital pricing information. The amendment directs states to establish and maintain laws requiring disclosure of information on hospital charges. Additionally, the amendment requires hospitals and health plans to make such information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.22.2009	Today, during the resumed mark-up in the House Energy and Commerce Committee of HR 3200, the Democrats’ health care reform bill, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) offered an amendment that would allow balanced billing for doctors under the proposed public option. This amendment was endorsed by the American Medical Association, which represents thousands of doctors, but was ultimately defeated by a vote of 21-30. share: f t Today, during the resumed mark-up in the House Energy and Commerce Committee of HR 3200, the Democrats’ health care reform bill, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) offered an amendment that would allow balanced billing for doctors under the proposed public option. This amendment was endorsed by the American Medical Association, which represents thousands of doctors, but was ultimately defeated by a vote of 21-30. “President Obama has promised repeatedly that if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. This morning, I proposed an amendment that would help ensure that this promise will hold true. The American Medical Association, which represents thousands of America’s doctors, supports the amendment, but unfortunately Committee Democrats weren’t interested. “The current government-run health insurance options – Medicare and Medicaid – insufficiently reimburse doctors for their services. These rates are far below the actual cost of delivering the care. We have heard stories of doctors dipping into their retirement savings or forced to close their doors because their practices cannot continue to function on the embarrassingly low rates the federal government pays. “Because of this, patients are losing their doctors that they have and like, and this will continue to occur under the newest government-run option under HR 3200. We could have fixed this problem today by passing my balanced billing amendment, but Committee Democrats have once again put the interests of the federal government over those of America’s doctors and patients.” NOTE: Attached is the AMA’s letter of support for the Burgess Balanced Billing amendment. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.17.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), issued the following statement after voting “no” on HR 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009: “Regrettably, today we voted on yet another expansion of our federal government at a severe cost to the American taxpayer. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), issued the following statement after voting “no” on HR 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009: “Regrettably, today we voted on yet another expansion of our federal government at a severe cost to the American taxpayer. “While I cast a ‘no’ vote on HR 3221, there are several good things in this bill. For instance, I fully support the provisions in the bill that apply to veterans, including loan forgiveness and the ability to transfer education credits from one school to another while serving. While I disagree with using an education bill to strip ACORN funding, I was pleased that the House of Representatives addressed that issue. “However, This bill primarily sought to get rid of the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) and replace it with the U.S. Department of Education’s Direct Loan Program. This bill is just another example of the federal government getting rid of choice and mandating only a so-called public option.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.16.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, today sent a letter to President Obama once again accepting his invitation to meet and discuss health care reform proposals. Along with the letter, Rep. Burgess sent information on four of his health care bills, which he believes would bring about widely-supported, meaningful reforms to our nation’s health care system if passed. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, today sent a letter to President Obama once again accepting his invitation to meet and discuss health care reform proposals. Along with the letter, Rep. Burgess sent information on four of his health care bills, which he believes would bring about widely-supported, meaningful reforms to our nation’s health care system if passed. Burgess’ latest attempt comes after President Obama stated in his joint address to Congress last Wednesday, “If you come to me with a serious set of proposals, I will be there to listen. My door is always open.” “I was pleased to hear President Obama state once again that he is willing to meet with Republicans to discuss ways we can work together to pass meaningful reforms. As a doctor, I worked in our country’s health care system, and I have many ideas of ways we can achieve our shared goals, and I am available to meet with President Obama at his earliest convenience.” A copy of the letter is below and attached. Also attached are summaries of the four bills mentioned in the letter below: September 16, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, I am once again compelled to write to you to accept your offer to meet with you at the White House to discuss the health care reform proposals currently before us. I listened intently as you addressed the Joint Session of Congress on September 9, 2009, and you once again extended an olive branch to members of the minority. I want to reiterate that I am completely committed to working in a bipartisan fashion to deliver reforms that all Americans can be comfortable with, increase access to care, lower health care costs for America’s families and businesses, and deliver changes to the health system that improve quality. I thank you for your public commitment to accept innovative ideas from Republicans and hope that you will follow through with your public pledge by reviewing this letter thoroughly. As you stated last week: “I will continue to seek common ground in the weeks ahead. If you come to me with a serious set of proposals, I will be there to listen. My door is always open.” I accept your gracious offer and want you to know that it is not my intention to “kill” health reform. In fact, I stand proudly by my bipartisan work in the U.S. House of Representatives on health care issues. Several of my amendments in the Energy & Commerce Committee were accepted unanimously while others are currently under negotiation with Chairman Waxman for inclusion in a final House product. That said, I have read the America’s Affordable Health Choices Act (H.R. 3200) and I do concede I have many concerns with the approach the bill takes. Many of the items you outlined in your speech do have wide bipartisan support. While we may have disagreements on the policy approaches to address those problems we will never know if we can find common ground if we do not try. To assist you in identifying measures that could gain wide bipartisan support I am enclosing four pieces of legislation that will make incremental but important reforms to our health system. I believe that, with your leadership, these measures could be passed and signed into law before Thanksgiving. These efforts would show that we can work together to make important reforms that improve access to care and protect the doctor/patient relationship. Physician Workforce: H.R. 914, the Physician Workforce Enhancement Act, would establish an interest-free loan program for eligible hospitals to establish residency training programs in certain high-need specialties. Under the program, eligible hospitals could receive up to $1,000,000 that must be repaid within 3 and half years. H.R. 914 will provide needed resources to smaller and emerging communities so they can attract and retain the medical professionals their communities will rely on in the future. If we do nothing to assist the training of physicians, waiting lines will grow longer, lapses in treatment will occur, and many of our small and rural communities will be at risk of not having physicians to meet their growing needs. Medical Liability Reform: As you alluded to in your speech, too many doctors are forced to practice defensive medicine and face the constant threat of lawsuits and unsustainable medical liability insurance rates. This results in millions of dollars in unnecessary tests and procedures. Seasoned medical professionals are retiring early because staying in practice is no longer financially feasible, further contributing to our nation's doctor shortage. This is a growing crisis that is pushing affordable health care beyond the grasp of millions of Americans. H.R. 1468, the Medical Justice Act, is based on medical liability reform implemented in Texas. The reforms have created a magnet for doctors and provided the funding mechanism to improve access to care and enhance patient safety. To prove the success of Texas’ reforms, I’d like to share a few of the statistics, from the Texas Medical Association: Since the 2003 reforms, Texas has licensed 14,496 new physicians. This is a 36 percent increase from pre-reform. Thirty-three rural counties have seen a net gain in ER doctors, including 26 counties that previously had none. After years of decline, the ranks of medical specialists are growing in Texas. In my field of obstetrics, Texas saw a net loss of 14 obstetricians in the two years preceding reform. Since then the state has experienced a net gain of 192 obstetricians, and 26 rural counties have added an obstetrician, including ten counties that previously had none. Charity care rendered by Texas hospitals has increased by 24 percent, resulting in $594 million in free care to Texas’ patients. Texas physicians have saved $574 million in liability insurance premiums, a significant savings that has allowed more doctors to stay in their practice. Medicare Reform: Many new Medicare beneficiaries find it difficult to locate a doctor who will accept Medicare. This is because physicians around the country realize that Medicare is an unstable payer, subject to the whims of political will and influence, and are doing what they must to protect their small businesses. Physicians are scheduled to receive a significant reduction in Medicare payments on January 1, 2010. The Ensuring the Future Physician Workforce Act, a bill I plan on introducing shortly, will give doctors what they really need – a stable and reasonable predictor of an inflationary reimbursement under Medicare. This will allow seniors to maintain access to their doctor. The legislation also rewards quality reporting of data, further incentivizes the adoption of Health Information Technology, and brings increased transparency on utilization, billing, and funding to the Medicare program. Health Care Price Transparency: A patient should be able to know what they are paying for and how much they will pay out-of-pocket. H.R. 2249, the Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act, directs states to establish and maintain laws requiring disclosure of information on hospital charges. The legislation requires hospitals and health plans to make this information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. H.R. 2249 aims to make health care more affordable by promoting greater transparency about the cost of health care services for patients seeking care. The legislation sets a national floor for transparency. As someone who has committed his Administration to transparency, this is an important step in helping make health care, and specifically health care costs, more transparent, which empowers the consumer. As a practicing physician for over 25 years, I believe I bring a unique perspective to the current health care reform debate. I am committed to finding areas of collaboration between the political parties that can deliver meaningful system reforms that will benefit all Americans. I would greatly appreciate the opportunity to review both the efforts outlined above and also my areas of concern with H.R. 3200 so that we may mutually work to bring quality, affordable health care to all Americans. I look forward to the opportunity to meet with you at your earliest convenience. Should your staff have any questions about any of the attached proposals or would like to arrange a meeting, please contact me or my Legislative Director J.P. Paluskiewicz at my Washington, D.C. office at 202-225-7772. Sincerely, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Member of Congress
09.11.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), released the following statement on the 8th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: “On September 11, 2001, our country experienced the worst terrorist attack on our homeland in the history of the United States. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), released the following statement on the 8th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: “On September 11, 2001, our country experienced the worst terrorist attack on our homeland in the history of the United States. Thousands perished at the hands of terrorists, and we will never forget those precious lives lost in the towers at the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, the hundreds of Americans on the four airplanes, and the brave emergency responders on the ground. “Eight years later, their sacrifice remains poignant, and we should never forget their contributions. As then-President George W. Bush said this day eight years ago, we must do “whatever is necessary to protect America and Americans.” Since then, many brave Americans have answered this call to defend our country, and because of their selfless work, and the work of many faithful Americans, including our Armed services, intelligence officials, and other tireless public servants, our country has remained safe. “The attackers’ goal was to intimidate Americans and instill fear in our hearts. But the strength and resolve of the American character was unwavering, and our patriotism and love of country will not be conquered. It is our duty to ensure that we as Americans remain united, and that the security of our nation and people remains stable. My prayers are with the family members who lost a loved one that day, those who have lost loved ones since that day in service of our country, and all Americans as we continue to cope with the devastating events of September 11, 2001.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
09.09.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), released the following statement after President Obama’s health care speech to a Joint Session of Congress: “After hearing from North Texans and Americans all across the country during the August recess, my hope was that President Obama would begin tonight by hitting the reset, rewind, or pause button. Unfortunately, tonight’s speech offered few new ideas or suggestions to achieve the meaningful health care reform many Americans want and need. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), released the following statement after President Obama’s health care speech to a Joint Session of Congress: “After hearing from North Texans and Americans all across the country during the August recess, my hope was that President Obama would begin tonight by hitting the reset, rewind, or pause button. Unfortunately, tonight’s speech offered few new ideas or suggestions to achieve the meaningful health care reform many Americans want and need. “I am still encouraged and will continue to push for changes in the areas where the President and I have strong agreement – eliminating the pre-existing condition barrier and other bad insurance practices, strengthening existing state safety nets, reducing waste and fraud in Medicare and Medicaid, and making care more affordable for all. “President Obama finally expressed support for medical liability reform, which will save billions of dollars and allow doctors to practice medicine without the fear of unnecessary lawsuits. If Secretary Sebelius and President Obama want to look to a state where liability reform has been successful, look to Texas. Our 2003 reforms have brought more than 10,000 new doctors to the state, including specialists in regions that didn’t have one prior to reforms, allowed hospitals to offer almost $600 million in charity care, and Texas doctors have saved half a billion dollars in liability premiums. Frankly, demonstrations are not needed, because Texas has a model that works and should be implemented immediately on a national level. “However, he reiterated and repeated the same policies Americans have soundly rejected all summer long. Seniors do not want cuts to Medicare. Mandates, whether they be on individuals or businesses, have no place in a free society and no place in the health care reform debate. President Obama cannot promise those with health care insurance that his plan will not disrupt their coverage. The claim that one more option – the government-run public plan – will offer the needed competition is deceiving. President Obama promises cost-cutting measures and that his plan will not add to the deficit, but offered no details as to how his plan will do this. “Following tonight’s speech I have several questions: Whose plan was he referring to – the Senate HELP Committee’s plan? The Senate Finance Committee’s plan? HR 3200 in the House? Or a new plan that he will introduce in the coming days? It is very unclear. What is the “insurance exchange” or “marketplace” he proposes and how will it work? I believe in offering Americans tax credits to purchase private health care insurance, but where will that money come from? To the assertion that the public option will increase competition – why not allow for true interstate competition and provide 1300 companies to compete with that one company in Alabama? “My offer to meet with the President to discuss my ideas for meaningful reform still stands, and I was encouraged when he reiterated tonight his invitation to Republicans to offer ideas in an attempt to achieve bipartisan reform. However, even the President admitted that many more details still need to be outlined. President Obama’s speech raised more questions than answers, and unfortunately we learned virtually nothing new tonight.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
08.26.2009	“Like myself, Senator Kennedy devoted much of his life and efforts to the cause of health care. My thoughts are with the Kennedy family and all Americans as our country mourns the death of one of its leaders.”
08.25.2009	“The Obama Administration’s decision to appoint a prosecutor to investigate the actions taken by CIA intelligence officials working to fight terrorism and protect Americans is just one more indication of this young Administration’s inability to think through a problem before taking action. share: f t “The Obama Administration’s decision to appoint a prosecutor to investigate the actions taken by CIA intelligence officials working to fight terrorism and protect Americans is just one more indication of this young Administration’s inability to think through a problem before taking action. Instead of standing on the side of the American soldiers and our nation's intelligence community, President Obama has chosen to go along with his Attorney General, who has admitted he doesn't have all the facts, but will still embark on years of public fact-finding to question the actions of Bush Administration officials working to protect American lives here and abroad. How can we expect our intelligence officials, who do their job in the name of safety of our citizens and the defense of our nation, to continue to put their lives and careers on the line when actions such as this show that they cannot count on the support of their own federal government? This politically charged pursuit is in direct contradiction to President Obama’s stated intentions to avoid a backward review of America’s national security policy, and a national security policy that has worked.”
08.19.2009	As the health care reform debate continues to heat up during Congress’ August recess, two policy forums hosted by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, focused on the ways the reform proposals will impact North Texas businesses. Burgess was joined by representatives from several North Texas businesses and Merrill Matthews, Director of the Council for Affordable Health Insurance and Resident Scholar at the Institute for Policy Innovation, to discuss the parts of health care reform that would affect business, including a tax increase, a new employer mandate, and penalties for non-compliance. share: f t As the health care reform debate continues to heat up during Congress’ August recess, two policy forums hosted by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, focused on the ways the reform proposals will impact North Texas businesses. Burgess was joined by representatives from several North Texas businesses and Merrill Matthews, Director of the Council for Affordable Health Insurance and Resident Scholar at the Institute for Policy Innovation, to discuss the parts of health care reform that would affect business, including a tax increase, a new employer mandate, and penalties for non-compliance. “As a doctor, getting health care reform right is very important to me,” Burgess said. “I have many concerns with the reform proposals we’ve seen, including the draft that passed out of my Committee in July, which I voted against. Many times policies made in Washington lead to unintended consequences back home, and today we found this to be true with the Democrats’ health care reform proposals.” “If you’re interested in small business, you should be concerned – very concerned – about the health care reform proposals we are seeing from Democrats,” Merrill Matthews said. “This may be the biggest corporate tax increase in history. This legislation is making things harder for small businesses, harder for them to compete. This huge new tax increase is not the way to go. It will simply hurt business.” With regards to the new employer mandate created by the House health care reform proposal, one panelist explained that this will add to the burden during this difficult economic time. Most businesses, like those in North Texas, are trying their best and are making good efforts, another business leader explained. Mandates are too broad of a mechanism, and the North Texas business representatives said they needed more tools to make health care affordable for small and medium businesses. The first policy forum was help Tuesday in North Richland Hills and featured Sally Bustamante, Human Resources Manager at Bates Container, and Pam Pietrykowski, owner of Rufe Snow Travel. Panelists for the second forum, held Wednesday in Denton, were Bob Moses, co-owner of Elements of Design and Beth Marie’s Ice Cream, Ken Willis, owner of Ruby’s Diner and co-owner of Beth Marie’s Ice Cream, and Lisa Wiborg, Director of Human Resources for Peterbilt. “Our employees are already very well taken care of without any mandates,” Lisa Wiborg of Peterbilt said. “If more gets mandated on us, then we have to look at where else are we going to cut – what else are we going to take away – in order to be able to afford to be competitive.” “If we had to furnish insurance, if it’s mandated on us, we would not be able to afford to do so,” said Ken Willis of Ruby’s Diner. “An 8 percent penalty would actually end up being cheaper on us.” Burgess said the policy forums gave him an opportunity to learn how current policy proposals being debated in D.C. will affect the local community. “I appreciate these local business leaders coming together to discuss health care reform and its effect on their bottom line,” Burgess said. “When Congress reconvenes in September I will take the lessons we have learned back to Washington, D.C. as we continue work on health care reform.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
08.13.2009	Due to the overwhelming interest and requests from North Texans to hear from him on health care, spending, cap and trade, and other issues, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has scheduled an additional Town Hall meeting. The Town Hall will be held on Tuesday, August 18, 2009 in Flower Mound. share: f t Due to the overwhelming interest and requests from North Texans to hear from him on health care, spending, cap and trade, and other issues, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (Texas-26) has scheduled an additional Town Hall meeting. The Town Hall will be held on Tuesday, August 18, 2009 in Flower Mound. Those interested in learning more about the health care proposals Congress is currently considering and how it will affect your families and businesses, or any other issue you may be interested in, are encouraged to attend and bring your questions for Congressman Burgess to answer. Media interested in attending are asked to notify Congressman Burgess’ office at (972) 434-9700 so adequate space may be reserved for crew members, reporters, cameras, and additional equipment. WHAT: Flower Mound Town Hall Meeting WHEN: Tuesday, August 18, 2009, 7:00 – 8:00 p.m. WHERE: Trietsch Memorial United Methodist Church 6101 Morriss Road Flower Mound, TX 75028 NOTE: Because the event is being held at a church, Congressman Burgess asks all those planning to attend to remember to continue to be respectful. No signs will be allowed inside the building, but there will be a designated area outside the entrances where people may display their signage.
08.03.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) today sent a letter to President Obama accepting his invitation to “come over to the White House and go over line-by-line” the health care reform plan the President is pushing. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) today sent a letter to President Obama accepting his invitation to “come over to the White House and go over line-by-line” the health care reform plan the President is pushing. Last week President Obama held a health care town hall meeting in North Carolina, and offered the invitation to Members of Congress. President Obama stated, “When we come back in September, I will be available to answer any questions that members of Congress have. If they want to come over to the White House and go over line-by-line what's going on, I will be happy to do that.” In his letter to President Obama, Burgess accepts the President’s invitation and states that, as a doctor, he has several concerns with the plan and also many ideas he believes he and the President can both agree on when it comes to health reform. Below is the text of Burgess’ letter to President Obama: August 3, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, I write to accept your offer to meet with you at the White House to discuss the current health care reform proposals before us and to review legislative language line by line. I hope that we can get together at the earliest possible opportunity. I have read the America’s Affordable Health Choices Act (H.R. 3200) in its entirety and have worked tirelessly in the Energy and Commerce Committee to help improve this legislation. Presently, I have many concerns about the legislation before us. I would greatly appreciate the opportunity to review my concerns about this bill with you and to explain the ways in which this legislation fails to achieve your stated goals of bringing quality, affordable health care to all Americans. I believe my perspective as a practicing physician for over 25 years and my track record of bipartisan work on health care issues will be helpful in identifying ways that Republicans and Democrats can work together, in a bipartisan fashion, to enact meaningful health care reform. In February, you told me at the White House that you are interested in finding out what works in health care reform. I look forward to the opportunity to meet with you to achieve this goal that we both share. Please contact my Washington, D.C. office at 202-225-7772 to schedule a meeting. Sincerely, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Member of Congress NOTE: The letter is also attached. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.31.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after an amendment he authored that would allow physicians to negotiate reasonable rates in any new government run health insurance program was defeated 29-29 late last night. “This amendment, which I wrote and was offered by Rep. John Shadegg (R-Ariz.), would have ensured that the millions of Americans forced onto a new government run insurance program would not be relegated to second-class status in our health care system... share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after an amendment he authored that would allow physicians to negotiate reasonable rates in any new government run health insurance program was defeated 29-29 late last night. “This amendment, which I wrote and was offered by Rep. John Shadegg (R-Ariz.), would have ensured that the millions of Americans forced onto a new government run insurance program would not be relegated to second-class status in our health care system. “By allowing physicians and hospitals to negotiate realistic, reasonable rates for the treatments, operations, and other services they provide, those cast into the government plan would have a fighting chance in seeing doctors. As a result of the paltry reimbursements for services within Medicare and Medicaid, many Americans face long wait times when they finally find a doctor who will see them. “We might have won the vote had a key Blue Dog Democrat not gone missing when the vote was called. If this was a result of inattention or design will be debatable but this member had been a key negotiator and advocate of this policy throughout the debate. Instead of putting patients first, Democrats decided to put backroom deal-making at the top of their priority list. “My amendment would have further prevented the practice of cross-subsidization, which currently increases costs for those with private insurance who are forced to pay for the shortcomings of our existing government run plans.”
07.31.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after the Committee favorably reported HR 3200, the Democrat health care reform bill, by a vote of 31 to 28: “With today’s vote, Democrats on this committee delivered to Americans more government spending, more federal debt, higher taxes, and more government control over their everyday lives. This is not what health care reform should look like. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after the Committee favorably reported HR 3200, the Democrat health care reform bill, by a vote of 31 to 28: “With today’s vote, Democrats on this committee delivered to Americans more government spending, more federal debt, higher taxes, and more government control over their everyday lives. This is not what health care reform should look like. Americans want quality health care that is affordable, and this bill does the exact opposite. Americans want to be able to keep their current health insurance and doctor, and this bill takes those decisions out of their hands and into the hands of the government. With this bill, the Democrats will drastically expand the federal government’s involvement in health care by adding millions more to the rolls of Medicaid and creating a new government entitlement – the government-run health insurance option. “With this bill, the Democrats will strap billions of dollars in new taxes and penalties on the backs of hard-working Americans and small businesses. They will replace choice and freedom with new federal mandates, and mandates have no place in a free society. Those Americans seeking health care insurance but can’t get it because of a pre-existing condition will have to wait five more years for coverage, under the Democrats plan. “I voted no on this legislation, but I will admit that there are parts of this bill that are good, such as the increased steps to tackle the problems of waste, fraud and abuse in Medicare and Medicaid. I am pleased that several of my bipartisan amendments that make needed improvements to the bill were accepted. But, despite Republican attempts to improve the bill, many parts are still missing, such as medical liability reform. “Republicans had ideas – do not let anyone say otherwise. We offered amendments, and many of them were bipartisan efforts, but in the end we were silenced. “I still have faith that the American people will make their voices heard and demand that Congress pass real health care reform that will fix what is wrong and build on what works. There is a right way to improve our country’s health care system – the best in the world – and a wrong way. The bill reported out of the House Energy and Commerce Committee today is the epitome of what Americans have said they do not want, and Congress should listen.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.30.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after his amendment to make a permanent fix to the Medicare payment formula was defeated by Committee Democrats: “Under the current system, the doctors serving our nation’s seniors are scheduled to receive a significant reduction in Medicare payments in 2010. In fact, Medicare doctors will face a cumulative cut of 25 to 35 percent over the next five years if Congress does nothing. In Texas, those cuts will total more than $200 million next year alone. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after his amendment to make a permanent fix to the Medicare payment formula was defeated by Committee Democrats: “Under the current system, the doctors serving our nation’s seniors are scheduled to receive a significant reduction in Medicare payments in 2010. In fact, Medicare doctors will face a cumulative cut of 25 to 35 percent over the next five years if Congress does nothing. In Texas, those cuts will total more than $200 million next year alone. “Physicians around the country realize that Medicare is an unstable payer, subject to the whims of political will and influence. Imagine what these cuts are going to mean for Medicare patients and their doctors? My amendment would give physicians and patients what they really need – a sustainable and reliable Medicare payment schedule. “Unfortunately, Committee Democrats have decided to go about business as usual, shutting out any and all Republican ideas to make this drastically flawed bill a little better. When can we tell our nation’s doctors that they will not have to live under the guillotine of yearly cuts just for seeing our nation’s seniors? This amendment would have given Medicare patients and physicians the hope that change has truly arrived. “Millions of our nation’s seniors and the doctors who treat them agree that we need a permanent fix to the Medicare payment formula. With today’s vote on my amendment, which would have done just that, the Democrats on this committee rejected their wishes.” NOTE: To view video of the Committee’s deliberation of the Burgess amendment, go to http://www.youtube.com/MichaelCBurgessMD. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.30.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after his modified medical liability reform amendment was defeated by Committee Democrats: “Today too many doctors are forced to practice defensive medicine and face the constant threat of lawsuits and unsustainable medical liability insurance rates, which results in millions of dollars in unnecessary tests and procedures. This is a growing crisis that is pushing affordable health care, a priority for both Democrats and Republicans, beyond the grasp of millions of Americans... share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after his modified medical liability reform amendment was defeated by Committee Democrats: “Today too many doctors are forced to practice defensive medicine and face the constant threat of lawsuits and unsustainable medical liability insurance rates, which results in millions of dollars in unnecessary tests and procedures. This is a growing crisis that is pushing affordable health care, a priority for both Democrats and Republicans, beyond the grasp of millions of Americans. “National, across-the-board change in the medical justice system would lower costs and improve care by lessening the threat of overzealous trial attorneys and the unmerited lawsuits they often bring about. “This is my second attempt in this Committee’s mark-up of the Democratic health care reform bill to put in place medical justice reform for America’s patients and doctors, and for the second time, Democrats have rejected the much-needed reforms. “Even after I agreed to make requested changes and play by their rules, the Democrats have once again reaffirmed their commitment to the American Trial Lawyers Association. A vote for this amendment would have sent a message to America’s patients that access to high-quality, affordable health care is indeed our goal, but Democratic leadership in the Committee decided otherwise.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.29.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement following the announcement that the Committee will reconvene its markup of HR 3200 today at 4 p.m. Eastern in 2123 Rayburn House Office Building: “I am pleased that the House Energy and Commerce Committee will finally reconvene and resume its mark-up of HR 3200. When it comes to health care reform, we should follow regular legislative order, which includes a robust and productive markup of the bill. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement following the announcement that the Committee will reconvene its markup of HR 3200 today at 4 p.m. Eastern in 2123 Rayburn House Office Building: “I am pleased that the House Energy and Commerce Committee will finally reconvene and resume its mark-up of HR 3200. When it comes to health care reform, we should follow regular legislative order, which includes a robust and productive markup of the bill. I have worked for weeks preparing for my committee’s markup of a health care reform bill, and I have dozens of amendments that I am prepared to offer to improve the bill before us. I look forward to the work the Energy and Commerce Committee will do over the next few days. Health care reform is too big and too important to rush through Congress, and the American people expect their elected officials to devote the appropriate time and attention to getting it right.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.28.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, has sent a letter requesting that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) conduct a study to determine the reasons health care costs are so high in McAllen, Texas. Burgess cites an article from The New Yorker and calls for an independent analysis on the article’s findings in order for Congress to have a better understanding as to what has caused Medicare costs to be so high in McAllen. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, has sent a letter requesting that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) conduct a study to determine the reasons health care costs are so high in McAllen, Texas. Burgess cites an article from The New Yorker and calls for an independent analysis on the article’s findings in order for Congress to have a better understanding as to what has caused Medicare costs to be so high in McAllen. “After reading this article, I believe health care spending in McAllen needs to be more closely scrutinized to understand why the spending is so much higher in McAllen, than in El Paso, the county used in the article to compare spending,” Burgess states in the letter. “In order for Congress to have a deeper understanding of what is going on in McAllen, we need to have more facts and figures from an independent source, such as the GAO.” “I am concerned that without an independent analysis and without further examination of what exactly is taking place in McAllen’s health care spending, Congress will be inclined to make broad assumptions that lead to inappropriate legislative decisions about how to control costs in health care. These decisions will likely not properly address the challenges of overall spending reductions in McAllen, or elsewhere in the country,” Burgess continued. The article, titled “The Cost Conundrum: What a Texas town can teach us about health care,” published on June 1, 2009, states that Medicare spent fifteen thousand dollars per enrollee in McAllen in 2006, which is almost double the national average. Burgess sent the letter to House Energy and Commerce Chairman Henry Waxman (D-CA) and Ranking Member Joe Barton (R-TX), asking them to request the study on behalf of the Committee. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.17.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after Energy and Commerce Committee consideration of his medical liability reform amendment: “Today too many doctors are forced to practice defensive medicine and face the constant threat of lawsuits and unsustainable medical liability insurance rates, which results in millions of dollars in unnecessary tests and procedures. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement after Energy and Commerce Committee consideration of his medical liability reform amendment: “Today too many doctors are forced to practice defensive medicine and face the constant threat of lawsuits and unsustainable medical liability insurance rates, which results in millions of dollars in unnecessary tests and procedures. This is a growing crisis that is pushing affordable health care, a priority for both Democrats and Republicans, beyond the grasp of millions of Americans. “National, across-the-board change in the medical justice system would lower costs and improve care by lessening the threat of overzealous trial attorneys and the unmerited lawsuits they often bring about. “Similar reform in Texas has created a magnet for doctors and provided the funding mechanism to improve access to care and enhance patient safety through significant liability savings. A few examples of the successes of the Texas reforms are: Charity care rendered by Texas hospitals rose 24% in the three years following the reforms. Texas has licensed 14,496 new physicians in the five-plus years since reform. Thirty-three rural counties have seen a net gain in ER doctors, including 26 counties that previously had none. After years of decline, the ranks of medical specialists are growing in Texas. Specifically, in my field of obstetrics, Texas has experienced a net gain of 192 obstetricians. Twenty-six rural counties have added an obstetrician, including 10 counties that previously had none. “Unfortunately, through technical maneuvering, Democrats shielded their members from taking a stand on this issue and reaffirmed their commitment to the American Trial Lawyers Association. A vote for this amendment would have sent a message to America’s patients that access to high-quality, affordable health care is indeed our goal, but Democratic leadership in the Committee decided otherwise. This fight is not over, though, and I will continue to work for American’s patients and hold the Democrats accountable.” To learn more about Congressman Burgess’ efforts on health care, visit http://www.healthcaucus.org r http://burgess.house.gov. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.14.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus and a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats released their 1,018-page health care reform bill: “As expected, the bill released today by Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats shows that they had no intention of finding bipartisan agreement on the issue of improving our country’s health care system. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus and a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats released their 1,018-page health care reform bill: “As expected, the bill released today by Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats shows that they had no intention of finding bipartisan agreement on the issue of improving our country’s health care system. The bill drastically expands the federal government’s control over health care through expansions in Medicaid, the creation of a “public”, or rather, government-run health insurance option, mandates on individuals and businesses, and higher taxes. “At the same time, the bill does absolutely nothing to address serious issues plaguing the current system. The bill does not reform the outdated and broken payment system the government uses to pay doctors who treat Medicare patients, ignores medical justice reform, and fails to provide additional assistance to ensure the future physician workforce our country’s health care system will rely upon. “Most importantly, despite the endorsement by President Obama and Speaker Pelosi’s carefully-crafted talking points, the bill will not improve the quality of health care in America. In fact, the Democrats’ plan will drastically decrease the quality of health care in this country by taking the decision-making powers away from patients and doctors and putting it in the hands of government bureaucrats. “This is not what I had hoped to see in the Majority’s health care reform proposal, and it is certainly not what the American people asked for. In the coming weeks, the American people can be assured that I will take every opportunity available to attempt to improve this deeply flawed plan. I did not give up a successful and worthwhile twenty-five year medical practice to come up here to Washington and sit on the sidelines of the health care debate. I remain committed to helping the millions of Americans who want health care coverage find it, and to lowering costs and improving quality for everyone.” To learn more about Congressman Burgess’ efforts on health care, visit http://www.healthcaucus.org or http://burgess.house.gov. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.11.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) was joined today by Texas Railroad Commissioner Michael L. Williams, local and state officials, and industry experts for a summit and fair on energy efficiency and conservation. This 3rd Annual event, hosted by Congressman Burgess, offered North Texans information on how to become more energy efficient and save on their personal energy costs, as well as programs and products available that relate to energy efficiency and conservation. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) was joined today by Texas Railroad Commissioner Michael L. Williams, local and state officials, and industry experts for a summit and fair on energy efficiency and conservation. This 3rd Annual event, hosted by Congressman Burgess, offered North Texans information on how to become more energy efficient and save on their personal energy costs, as well as programs and products available that relate to energy efficiency and conservation. Information was also presented on how recent federal policies may impact Texas. The event featured two panels of experts from local, state, and federal levels, as well as area organizations and businesses, who offered information ranging from building a “Green Home” and updating current homes with energy saving products, to the state’s leading usage of wind energy and other alternative sources. Congressman Burgess is no stranger to energy efficiency, having incorporated many of the ideas in his own home built in recent years. “We must all do our part to become more energy efficient and strive for an energy independent America,” Congressman Burgess said. “There are many things we can do to use less energy and use energy more wisely. By taking just a few steps as a humble North Texan, I have used far less energy than I used to, and I would encourage others to do so as well.” Texas Railroad Commissioner Michael Williams offered the keynote address, speaking about energy resources and policy in Texas. The Texas Railroad Commission has primary regulatory jurisdiction over many of the state’s energy industries, including oil and natural gas industry. The Commission is also responsible for research and education to promote the use of alternative fuels. “Meeting our growing energy needs of tomorrow requires us to conserve more, use less and develop alternatives today. We can have a healthy economy and a healthy environment with pro-growth energy policies that encourage innovation and reward entrepreneurship,” said Commissioner Williams, the longest-serving member of the state’s energy regulatory commission. Officials were also on-hand from the Public Utility Commission and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT). Attendees benefited from an energy efficiency fair featuring exhibits from area organizations and businesses. Products highlighted included energy efficient appliances, residential solar panels and wind turbines. “I know we all agree that we should learn as much as possible about finding new ways to improve our energy efficiency. I appreciate Congressman Burgess hosting this summit which I believe will educate us on the excellent tools available,” said Mayor Dean Ueckert of Lewisville. “In these tough economic times, I think it’s important to find ways we can cut back at home, and I am hopeful North Texans learned new ways to do that today. I wanted to highlight the importance of individuals taking responsibility and doing things to reduce their energy use,” Congressman Burgess said. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.09.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will be joined this Saturday, July 11 by Texas Railroad Commissioner Michael L. Williams, local and state officials, and industry experts for a summit and fair on energy efficiency and conservation. The event will be held at Killough Lewisville High School North, and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will be joined this Saturday, July 11 by Texas Railroad Commissioner Michael L. Williams, local and state officials, and industry experts for a summit and fair on energy efficiency and conservation. The event will be held at Killough Lewisville High School North, and will highlight steps North Texans can take to become more energy efficient. The summit will feature two panels with experts from the local, state, and federal levels, as well as area organizations and businesses, who will offer information on energy efficiency in our homes and businesses, as well as advice on understanding energy costs. There will also be a fair with booths providing energy-related information and resources. “We must all do our part to become more energy efficient and strive for an energy independent America,” Congressman Burgess said. “I invite you to join me as I bring together experts to discuss our country’s energy agenda, including the future of energy in America, ways Texas has lead the nation in many types of renewable energies, and how recent federal policies will impact Texas.” Doors open and the fair begins at 8 a.m., with Congressman Burgess giving opening remarks beginning at 9 a.m., and Commissioner Williams giving the keynote address at 11:20 a.m. The event is free and open to the public. WHAT: Summit on Energy Efficiency and Conservation WHEN: Saturday, July 11, 2009 8:00 AM - 12:00 Noon WHERE: Killough Lewisville High School North 1301 Summit Avenue Lewisville, TX 75077 WHO: Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Texas Railroad Commissioner Michael L. Williams Energy Industry Experts Businesses and Organizations Leading the Way in Energy Technologies Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.04.2009	In observance of Independence Day, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) released the following statement: “Today, on America’s 233rd birthday, we take a pause to recognize that we are truly blessed to live in this great country. share: f t In observance of Independence Day, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) released the following statement: “Today, on America’s 233rd birthday, we take a pause to recognize that we are truly blessed to live in this great country. The freedoms we enjoy today in 2009 took root on this day in 1776 through the bravery of those dedicated to the God-given rights of Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. “As millions across the world continue their struggles for democracy and independence, Americans all across this great land celebrating the birth of the United States of America should not forget the principles our country was founded upon, and celebrate those as well. “I encourage my fellow Americans to renew their patriotism for the United States of America and the ideals we stand for. Like those before us, we must continue to be thankful for the liberties that we are allowed as Americans, offer aid to those who seek these same liberties, and celebrate the great land we are fortunate enough to call home.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
07.01.2009	During today’s White House online town hall on health care, a question was submitted by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus. Following President Obama’s response to the question on medical liability reform, Congressman Burgess issued the following statement: share: f t During today’s White House online town hall on health care, a question was submitted by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chairman of the Congressional Health Care Caucus. Following President Obama’s response to the question on medical liability reform, Congressman Burgess issued the following statement: “First and foremost, I would like to thank those of you who viewed my YouTube question to President Obama for today’s White House online town hall on health care. It is very important that all Americans stay involved and engaged throughout the health care debate, and today’s town hall made it possible for me to directly ask President Obama this important question on medical justice reform, and it would not have been possible without your help. “On the issue of medical justice reform, I am pleased to hear that President Obama and I share the common goal of reducing medical liability insurance rates and the constant threat of lawsuits many doctors and hospitals face. Let me be clear – my goal is not to deny a patient who has been legitimately harmed what is due to them. Instead, I want to make sure that overzealous trial attorneys and the unmerited lawsuits they often bring about do not compromise the care provided by a doctor to his or her patient. “My home state of Texas has shown that capping non-economic damages has only made the medical environment better. Since the reforms were implemented in 2003, Texas has seen thousands of new doctors, nurses and medical professionals flock to the state, the number of health care insurance companies has increased, giving patients more choice, and doctors have been able to provide the best care possible to their patients without fear of unwarranted lawsuits. “While I do not think caps on non-economic damages are the only way to reduce costs and the practice of defensive medicine, it is without a doubt an important aspect of medical justice reform. “On President Obama’s other point – the issues raised by the New Yorker article in regards to higher utilization rates in McAllen, Texas, are complex, and are not likely to be directly caused by, or solved by, medical liability reform. This may just as likely point to one of the weaknesses of a government-run payment system – Medicare – as it does any other matter. This issue deserves careful study, which is why I am asking the Government Accountability Office to provide more answers on the study’s results. “As the health care debate heats up over the coming weeks, I look forward to continuing to hear from Americans all across the country – individuals, small businesses, and those with innovative ideas that have worked – on ways we can improve our country’s health care system.” To see Congressman Burgess’ video question to President Obama, and the president’s response, click here. To learn more about Congressman Burgess’ efforts on health care, visit http://www.healthcaucus.org. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
06.26.2009	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement following the House of Representatives’ narrow passage of HR 2454, the Waxman/Markey Cap and Trade bill by a 219-212 vote: “Tonight I stood up for Texans and Americans and voted ‘no’ on the Democrats’ detrimental cap and trade proposal. “In the Energy and Commerce Committee, I sat through almost 40 hours of discussion on an almost 1,000-page bill and debated over 100 amendments, including three of my own. I watched as Democrat Committee members blocked all Republican attempts to make this bill better. share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement following the House of Representatives’ narrow passage of HR 2454, the Waxman/Markey Cap and Trade bill by a 219-212 vote: “Tonight I stood up for Texans and Americans and voted ‘no’ on the Democrats’ detrimental cap and trade proposal. “In the Energy and Commerce Committee, I sat through almost 40 hours of discussion on an almost 1,000-page bill and debated over 100 amendments, including three of my own. I watched as Democrat Committee members blocked all Republican attempts to make this bill better. Republicans tried to offer many amendments to the bill that was on the floor tonight, including five amendments offered by me, and Democrats blocked all but one. “I believe cap and trade will cause more harm to our nation’s economy and future than any other proposal in the history of Congress. H.R. 2454 will cause the cost of electricity and transportation fuels to increase as domestic energy companies will have pay the government to regulate carbon emissions. Unfortunately, the result will be higher energy costs across the board for American consumers. “Proponents of this bill claim that it will create jobs in the United States, the reality is, as the cost of emitting carbon increases in America, businesses will simply move production overseas where emissions are unrestricted. Good paying American jobs will go with them. “HR 2454 will impose the largest tax in our country’s history, force millions of American jobs overseas, and will cripple our efforts to restore our economy for generations to come. We cannot afford to risk our economic future on unproven science and a reliance on non-existent technology. “I have heard from hundreds of North Texans who share my strong opposition to cap and trade. The number of North Texans who have called me in support of the bill is in single digits. “While I agree that we need to do more to decrease our dependency on foreign sources of energy and improve energy efficiency, cap and trade is not the answer.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
06.24.2009	“I hear from North Texans every day who are tired of the reckless way in which Washington has been spending their hard-earned money lately. Have no doubt, I take the issue of our country’s national security very seriously. However, this bill contained too much duplicative spending that was already included in the stimulus package passed in February, and unfortunately, when given the chance to eliminate that spending, the Democrat majority decided to continue to spend your money unchecked. For this reason, I voted ‘no’ on this bill.” share: f t “I hear from North Texans every day who are tired of the reckless way in which Washington has been spending their hard-earned money lately. Have no doubt, I take the issue of our country’s national security very seriously. However, this bill contained too much duplicative spending that was already included in the stimulus package passed in February, and unfortunately, when given the chance to eliminate that spending, the Democrat majority decided to continue to spend your money unchecked. For this reason, I voted ‘no’ on this bill.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
06.23.2009	Today the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s subcommittee on Health began what will be week-long hearings on a draft of the Democrats’ health care reform plan. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Health subcommittee, said he looks forward to learning more about the draft plan, but believes the hearings are a far-cry from real bipartisan efforts. “And so it begins – the formal debate on health care reform. I have been waiting my entire career for this moment. I did not give up a 25-year medical practice to come to Congress to sit on the sidelines of what could be the biggest changes to our health care system in the last 45 years,” Burgess said. share: f t Today the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s subcommittee on Health began what will be week-long hearings on a draft of the Democrats’ health care reform plan. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the Health subcommittee, said he looks forward to learning more about the draft plan, but believes the hearings are a far-cry from real bipartisan efforts. “And so it begins – the formal debate on health care reform. I have been waiting my entire career for this moment. I did not give up a 25-year medical practice to come to Congress to sit on the sidelines of what could be the biggest changes to our health care system in the last 45 years,” Burgess said. “Yet, here we are – calling ten panels to help us walk through a legislative proposal released late last week – and details have been hard to come by.” The Congressional Budget Office has not yet scored the Democrats’ draft plan, leaving key questions unanswered, such as how much the plan will cost and how many Americans will receive health insurance coverage. Additionally, the draft does not include details as to how the plan will be paid for. “Simply burdening future generations with even more debt, while ignoring the very real problems we face just so we can say we have checked the box on health reform is not the direction I had hoped Congress would undertake. However, the structure of these proceedings tells me otherwise,” Burgess said. Burgess expressed concern over the lack of these important details. He argued that this, coupled with the fact that no Republicans were involved in the draft or bill-writing process, has produced a plan that will actually shortchange the millions of Americans looking for real bipartisan reforms to America’s health care system. “I was hopeful, and I am still hopeful, that we could write a bipartisan bill. However, since no Republican has been consulted thus far on the totality of this bill – I think it is a disservice to our citizens.” Burgess, a medical doctor in North Texas for twenty-five years before being elected to Congress in 2002, said he believes the Democrats’ plan will actually increase costs and will not improve the quality of health care. “I have long argued we should start with a discussion focusing on quality of care, access, and affordability. As I have long said, coverage does not equal access. What does this bill do for America’s patients and doctors?” Burgess asked. “I believe costs will go up, people will be forced out of their current coverage, businesses will be forced to close their doors, and the doctor-patient relationship will be severely eroded.” “Nevertheless, I look forward to hearing from Secretary Sebelius, former Secretary Leavitt, and the other witnesses who will come before us throughout the week. I am, and always have been, committed to finding bipartisan ways to make our country’s health care system – already the best in the world – better, and that is what I intend to do” Burgess concluded. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
06.22.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) is pleased to announce the students from the 26th District of Texas who have accepted appointments to the United States Service Academies. This summer the young men and women will be entering the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY, and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) is pleased to announce the students from the 26th District of Texas who have accepted appointments to the United States Service Academies. This summer the young men and women will be entering the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY, and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. "I was pleased to nominate outstanding young men and women who will be the future leaders of our Armed Forces and America,” Rep. Burgess said. “I am even more delighted and grateful that these future leaders have accepted this challenge to serve their country." At a recent town hall meeting, Rep. Burgess presented appointees with a Special Certificate of Congressional Recognition and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their appointment. Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are rigorously evaluated on a variety of criteria including academic performance, leadership qualifications and physical preparedness. Appointments to an academy must be preceded by a nomination from a Member of Congress, Academy Superintendent, the Vice President or a military connected nomination. The exception is to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, where a nomination is not required for consideration, but appointments are based upon a competitive nationwide admissions process. Those students from the 26th Congressional District attending the service academies who were nominated by Rep. Burgess are: U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY Arnulfo Ahumada, Fort Worth Corbin Anderson, Westlake U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD Erik Dahl, Lewisville Jack Gannon, Westlake Trey Gregory, Flower Mound Greg Moore, Lewisville U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY Brian Bradsher, Flower Mound Francois Conde-Jahn, Frisco Cole Kembel, Denton Ben Moer, Flower Mound U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO Evan Boone, Corinth Chase Douglass, Flower Mound Kyle Green, North Richland Hills Dan Gregory, Argyle Those students from the 26th Congressional District attending the service academies nominated by other sources, but who reside in Texas’ 26th District are: U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY Ryan Wilson, Keller Jason Wright, Flower Mound U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD Ben Marrs, Flower Mound Crystal Ibe, North Richland Hills U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT Kathryn Weber, Flower Mound U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO Patrick Waters, Keller Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
06.19.2009	WASHINGTON—Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) today released the following statement after House passage of a bipartisan resolution, H.Res. 560, which expresses support for all Iranian citizens who struggle for freedom, human rights, civil liberties, and rule of law: “Today our country took an important step in showing support for many Iranians and their quest for democracy. The United States is the greatest democracy in the world, and today we expressed our sympathy for the people of Iran who are fighting for their basic rights, thus showing our solidarity with those who seek the same liberties in their country that we enjoy in ours.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) today released the following statement after House passage of a bipartisan resolution, H.Res. 560, which expresses support for all Iranian citizens who struggle for freedom, human rights, civil liberties, and rule of law: “Today our country took an important step in showing support for many Iranians and their quest for democracy. The United States is the greatest democracy in the world, and today we expressed our sympathy for the people of Iran who are fighting for their basic rights, thus showing our solidarity with those who seek the same liberties in their country that we enjoy in ours.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
06.17.2009	Following last night’s vote on the Conference Report for H.R. 2346, the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009, Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), released the following statement: “Of all the roles and responsibilities of the Congress, our most important responsibility is to ensure that our country maintains a well-funded and capable national defense. Forget about climate change, health care reform or any other Member priority, if we cannot ensure the safety of Americans. Most importantly, these funds will purchase the safety equipment and the tools, vehicles, and enemy weapons detection systems that our troops need to ensure their safety. share: f t Following last night’s vote on the Conference Report for H.R. 2346, the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009, Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), released the following statement: “Of all the roles and responsibilities of the Congress, our most important responsibility is to ensure that our country maintains a well-funded and capable national defense. Forget about climate change, health care reform or any other Member priority, if we cannot ensure the safety of Americans. Most importantly, these funds will purchase the safety equipment and the tools, vehicles, and enemy weapons detection systems that our troops need to ensure their safety. “Unfortunately Democrats manipulated this opportunity and included several unrelated ‘add-ons’ for special groups and favored organizations. “Despite the necessity to fund our troops, I cannot justify supporting an irresponsible bill that contains global handouts for failed foreign banks or countries who will use these funds to build the very weapons that put our deployed troops at risk.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
06.11.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) today joined with the members of the U.S. House of Representatives in voting unanimously to approve H. Res. 529, which condemns the attack that occurred in the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum yesterday, June 10, 2009: “The events of June 10, 2009, at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum were a tragic display of astonishing cruelty. I join all Americans in condemning yesterday’s attack and in mourning the loss of life. Acts of violence such as this are tragedies, and I am deeply saddened by the events that occurred.” share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) today joined with the members of the U.S. House of Representatives in voting unanimously to approve H. Res. 529, which condemns the attack that occurred in the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum yesterday, June 10, 2009: “The events of June 10, 2009, at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum were a tragic display of astonishing cruelty. I join all Americans in condemning yesterday’s attack and in mourning the loss of life. Acts of violence such as this are tragedies, and I am deeply saddened by the events that occurred.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.25.2009	“While many Americans recognize Memorial Day as the official start of summer, it is important that we pause and reflect on the sacrifices of the hundreds of thousands of men and women who have fallen in service to our nation. Through their dedication to country, they have upheld our values of liberty, justice and self-determination. Today I proudly join my fellow Americans in honoring these brave individuals who have voluntarily given their lives for the sake of freedom. We must also remember the families of our Armed Forces, who know personally the sacrifices made in service to our great nation. As Americans, we are called to do our part to uphold the ideals for which these individuals have given so much. On this day I would like to thank our veterans for their service to our nation and join with them as we remember those who gave the ultimate sacrifice.” share: f t “While many Americans recognize Memorial Day as the official start of summer, it is important that we pause and reflect on the sacrifices of the hundreds of thousands of men and women who have fallen in service to our nation. Through their dedication to country, they have upheld our values of liberty, justice and self-determination. Today I proudly join my fellow Americans in honoring these brave individuals who have voluntarily given their lives for the sake of freedom. We must also remember the families of our Armed Forces, who know personally the sacrifices made in service to our great nation. As Americans, we are called to do our part to uphold the ideals for which these individuals have given so much. On this day I would like to thank our veterans for their service to our nation and join with them as we remember those who gave the ultimate sacrifice.”
05.21.2009	In a unanimous effort to enhance airline safety, the U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly (420-0) today to accept an amendment to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act, H.R. 915. The amendment was introduced by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), and aims to safeguard FAA whistleblowers, protecting their rights to speak out when corruption or misconduct is alleged. “Ensuring the safety of our citizens is my first and foremost concern. My amendment will recognize the role whistleblowers play in creating a safe flying environment. Individuals in the FAA should be able to speak up and speak out when safety is being compromised share: f t In a unanimous effort to enhance airline safety, the U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly (420-0) today to accept an amendment to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act, H.R. 915. The amendment was introduced by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), and aims to safeguard FAA whistleblowers, protecting their rights to speak out when corruption or misconduct is alleged. “Ensuring the safety of our citizens is my first and foremost concern. My amendment will recognize the role whistleblowers play in creating a safe flying environment. Individuals in the FAA should be able to speak up and speak out when safety is being compromised,” Burgess said. “Whether it’s the federal government, a private company or their fellow colleagues who compromise safety, these brave people are entitled to the full protection of the law when they inform the public of how our air safety is compromised.” The Burgess amendment does not give whistleblowers any new laws to pursue legal actions, but rather proposes to not give them any less. After hearing from several residents of North Texas who acted as whistleblowers, Rep. Burgess asked in November of 2008 for a hearing in the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations focusing on whistleblowers. To date, no such hearing has been held. “We must make sure that each whistleblower is treating fairly and equally. Each and every claim reported to the FAA should be properly reviewed,” continued Burgess. NOTE: To view the video of Rep. Burgess’ floor speech on his amendment, click here.
05.21.2009	As Memorial Day nears, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations for the 2009 Congressional Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project, sponsored by the Library of Congress, honors the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and preserves their stories for future generations of Americans. “Our nation’s veterans have proudly and honorably served our country and preserved our freedom, and it is because of their service that we enjoy all the liberties we are afforded. They deserve our thanks and praise, and I am proud to recognize the veterans in Texas’ 26th Congressional district and honor their service through the 2009 Congressional Veteran Commendation,” Rep. Burgess said. To nominate a veteran for the Congressional Veteran Commendation, please fill out the nomination form, which can be found on Rep. Burgess’ website at /Services/cvc.htm. The deadline for submitting nominations is September 14, 2009, and the completed nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, should be returned to Rep. Burgess’ Lewisville office. To be eligible for nomination, veterans must be currently residing in the 26th District of Texas and have served the nation with honor consistent with the finest traditions of military service. Those individuals selected to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation will be recognized and honored at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association on November 10, 2009. An in-depth interview will be conducted with comendees and that interview will be forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection. For more information regarding the project, visit http://www.loc.gov/vets/. To obtain additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the 26th District of Texas, please contact Congressman Burgess’ District Administrator, Robin Vaughan, at (972) 434-9700 or visit Rep. Burgess’ website at /.
05.20.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, tonight introduced an amendment to HR 2454, the Democrats’ cap and trade proposal, that would prohibit the transfer or receipt of carbon credit derivatives in an attempt to curb manipulation of the carbon credit market the proposal creates. After the amendment was rejected on a party-line vote, Rep. Burgess released the following statement: “There is almost unanimous agreement that financial derivatives, such as mortgage-backed securities and credit default swaps, are two significant sources of the problems our country’s financial system now faces. We all remember the impact speculation had on gasoline and diesel prices last summer. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, tonight introduced an amendment to HR 2454, the Democrats’ cap and trade proposal, that would prohibit the transfer or receipt of carbon credit derivatives in an attempt to curb manipulation of the carbon credit market the proposal creates. After the amendment was rejected on a party-line vote, Rep. Burgess released the following statement: “There is almost unanimous agreement that financial derivatives, such as mortgage-backed securities and credit default swaps, are two significant sources of the problems our country’s financial system now faces. We all remember the impact speculation had on gasoline and diesel prices last summer. This cap and trade proposal ensures a price for carbon credits and a market to trade the credits. We have no reason to believe this new market will not be subject to the same manipulations as we have seen before. My amendment would stop the invention of carbon credit derivatives before it even starts by prohibiting the transfer or receipt of these instruments. We cannot afford to set up this system without adequate protections in place to ensure the same manipulations do not occur. “Tonight we had the opportunity to prevent the next Enron from happening. Unfortunately Committee Democrats don’t believe in preventing the same type of damage inflicted on our housing and financial markets from also being inflicted on the newly created carbon credit market.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.19.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today, as the Committee began to mark up HR 2454, the Democrats’ cap and trade bill: “This bill – in its current form, in its draft form, or in any form – may do more harm to our economy than any bill that will come before Congress this year, and perhaps any other bill in my lifetime. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today, as the Committee began to mark up HR 2454, the Democrats’ cap and trade bill: “This bill – in its current form, in its draft form, or in any form – may do more harm to our economy than any bill that will come before Congress this year, and perhaps any other bill in my lifetime. That is because the proposal to cap carbon and trade carbon credits hurts American economic growth without providing enough benefits for the expense. “For one, this policy will increase overhead costs, which would be devastating for business. It will increase energy prices for every single American household by hundreds, maybe thousands, of dollars. In essence, it is an energy tax that will be imposed on every single American consumer. Give me one good reason why this is a good idea, given our current economic circumstances. “I would be remiss if I did not mention the blatant disregard for regular procedure by the Majority. The behind-closed-door nature of this bill's negotiations, the last minute introduction, and the Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute, unveiled just Monday morning, leads me to believe ‘thoughtful’ and ‘beneficial’ are two words that cannot be used to characterize this bill. If it were indeed thoughtful and beneficial, why hide it? “Furthermore, based upon the short amount of time I've had to scrub this bill, I'm concerned that we may see negotiated protections for afflicted industries and a failure to adequately protect American consumers. That's the one group we should care to protect the most with federal legislation – the American people. “Americans want to become more energy independent in order to improve national security. However, our national security is most threatened when we ignore the strength of our economy in exchange for non-measurable and non-attainable mandates like the ones proposed in the Democrats’ cap and trade legislation. “As a nation, we are walking a very serious and fine economic line. We need thoughtful cost-benefit analysis on every bill before Congress, and that is clearly lacking in this legislation.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
05.11.2009	Following today’s meeting between White House officials and representatives from the health care industry, U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement: “Today’s meeting, coupled with yesterday’s letter from the health industry leaders, indicates that representatives from all sides of the health care debate are committed to working together, which I applaud. I have stated time and time again that I welcome President Obama’s pledge to find ‘what works’ when it comes to health care reform and consider input and ideas from others, and I have offered to help and give my input and ideas as both a doctor and Member of Congress. share: f t Following today’s meeting between White House officials and representatives from the health care industry, U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Chair of the Congressional Health Care Caucus, released the following statement: “Today’s meeting, coupled with yesterday’s letter from the health industry leaders, indicates that representatives from all sides of the health care debate are committed to working together, which I applaud. I have stated time and time again that I welcome President Obama’s pledge to find ‘what works’ when it comes to health care reform and consider input and ideas from others, and I have offered to help and give my input and ideas as both a doctor and Member of Congress. “First and foremost, I believe the fundamental focus of any health care reform should be preserving and enhancing the doctor-patient relationship. We must be focused on ensuring that anyone needing medical assistance can see the doctor they want to see and receive the care they want and need, when they need it. Choice, access and personal freedom for patients to make informed decisions about their own health decisions cannot be sacrificed at the expense of cutting deals. “We are approaching a time of great opportunity, but also great peril. I am concerned these developments are more about protecting business interests and currying favor in Washington, D.C., than they are about protecting the relationship between a patient and his or her doctor. “These industry groups, like the American Hospitals Association, America's Health Insurance Plans, and American Medical Association, have made concessions to Washington politicians without asking anything in exchange for the patients they serve. At this time the details are vague, but I am interested in learning what these changes mean for the millions of concerned Americans. How they will be better served, including having affordable health coverage and access to the providers they need? “From what I can tell, the announcement by the health industry leaders misses the mark in several areas. It promises no protections against a Washington takeover of health care; no guarantees that Washington bureaucrats won’t stand in the way of Americans getting the treatment they need when they need it; no promises that patients will be able to control their health care decisions; and no assurances that Americans will have their choice of doctors or hospitals. “Until more details are revealed, I would encourage Americans to be circumspect about today’s announcement. Efforts to save $2 trillion is a much-needed step towards affordable health care for all of America’s patients, but how long has the health care industry been waiting to pass these savings along to Americans?”
05.06.2009	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and U.S. Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) together introduced HR 2249, the Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act of 2009. The bipartisan bill aims to make health care more affordable by promoting greater transparency about the costs of health care services for patients seeking care. share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and U.S. Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) together introduced HR 2249, the Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act of 2009. The bipartisan bill aims to make health care more affordable by promoting greater transparency about the costs of health care services for patients seeking care. “This is about giving patients more choices and more control over their health care decisions by providing up-front information on cost,” Burgess said. “Restaurants have menus displaying the prices of the products they offer, why should hospitals providing health care services be any different? A patient should be able to know what they are paying for and how much they will pay out-of-pocket. This is an important step in improving our country’s health care system by focusing on patients.” Health care costs are increasing at an alarming rate. In 2008, total national health expenditures rose more than 6.9 percent – two times the rate of inflation. Total spending was $2.4 trillion in 2007, or $7900 per person. Total health care spending represented 17 percent of the gross domestic product. Furthermore, U.S. health care spending is expected to increase at similar levels for the next decade, reaching $4.3 trillion in 2017, or 20 percent of GDP. “Our current health care system needs to be reformed. Unfortunately, with all of the bureaucracy and paperwork, few people including patients and physicians know where money is going. This makes it hard to identify the base problem and begin to help curb increasing health care costs,” said Rep. Green. “This legislation will be a first step in a long-term solution to clear up the confusion, and will let us move towards affordable, quality health care for all Americans.” The American Hospital Association notes that there is evidence of the ongoing success of states and state hospital associations to collect and disseminate hospital pricing information. The Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act directs states to establish and maintain laws requiring disclosure of information on hospital charges. Additionally, the bill requires hospitals and health plans to make such information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. Signing on as original cosponsors of HR 2249 are Reps. John Carter (TX-31), Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Mac Thornberry (TX-13).
04.23.2009	After receiving several letters from North Texans urging him to take action, Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), released the following statement calling for Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano to step down: “The Department of Homeland Security’s controversial report released last week listed, among others, many of our nation’s veterans as possible domestic terrorists or assassins. I find this astonishingly insensitive. In a letter to Secretary Napolitano I called this a ‘baseless claim’ and ‘sensational at best and…dishonorable and disrespectful to their service.’ Many of my constituents in North Texas agree, and have written to me urging me to call for the secretary to step aside. To those North Texans I say, consider your message delivered. share: f t After receiving several letters from North Texans urging him to take action, Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), released the following statement calling for Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano to step down: “The Department of Homeland Security’s controversial report released last week listed, among others, many of our nation’s veterans as possible domestic terrorists or assassins. I find this astonishingly insensitive. In a letter to Secretary Napolitano I called this a ‘baseless claim’ and ‘sensational at best and…dishonorable and disrespectful to their service.’ Many of my constituents in North Texas agree, and have written to me urging me to call for the secretary to step aside. To those North Texans I say, consider your message delivered. “I read on the House floor last night several heartfelt letters from Texans back home. One was from a couple who had both served in the Army, and you could feel their pain in the letter. This is a man and a woman who have honorably served their country, and now they are being equated with someone who would want to harm their country, the same country they spent their lives defending. This is unacceptable. “I do not believe Secretary Napolitano understands the depth of the disruption she has caused back home in my district, and across the country, and I believe it will be very difficult to reestablish that trust. I think the appropriate thing for her to do is step down.” Below is a copy of the letter Congressman Burgess sent Secretary Napolitano last week. April 16, 2009 The Honorable Janet Napolitano Secretary United States Department of Homeland Security 108 Federal Office Building Washington, DC 20502 Dear Secretary Napolitano: I am writing to express my concerns regarding a recent Department of Homeland Security (DHS) report entitled, "Rightwing Extremism: Current Economic and Political Climate Fueling Resurgence in Radicalization and Recruitment." This report claims to provide law enforcement officials with the tools to help them deter, prevent, preempt, correspond to terrorist attacks against the United States. I understand the purpose of shared intelligence, however, I am concerned that by broadly characterizing those who support a conservative ideology with terrorism the DHS may have mischaracterized and offended several million Americans and placed them at risk of profiling bylaw enforcement officials. This report states, "The Economic downturn and the election of the first African American president present unique drivers for rightwing radicalization and recruitment." The report goes on to connect associations with right-leaning ideology with the Oklahoma City bombing, the murder of law enforcement officials, bank robbery, attacks on infrastructure, and racism and bigotry in general. This report claims that "high unemployment leads to alienation, increasing an individual's susceptibility to extremist ideas." This report appears to claim that high unemployment among Caucasians, Christians, Second Amendment supporters, and Armed Forces Veterans has a causal relationship with radicalism and violence against the state. I call into question this underlying assumption and baseless claim. The implication that veterans returning home from serving our country are at risk of becoming domestic terrorists or assassins is sensational at best and is dishonorable and disrespectful to their service. Profiling based on race, ethnicity, religious beliefs, or life experiences is always wrong. I believe the Department of Homeland Security owes an apology to the Americans that are offended by this report, especially the men and women of our Armed Forces. Furthermore, the Department should rescind this report so those local, state, and federal law enforcement officials who received it are not compelled to profile individuals as terrorists simply because they associate themselves with conservative organizations. I urge you to enact these recommendations on behalf of the constituents of the 26th District of Texas. Sincerely, Michael C. Burgess, M.D.
04.22.2009	Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), announced today that Morgan Everhart of Denton has been named the winner of the 7th annual 26th Congressional District Art Competition. Everhart, a senior art student of Mrs. Faith Jessup at Guyer High School, won first prize with her mixed media composition entitled “Huddle.” share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), announced today that Morgan Everhart of Denton has been named the winner of the 7th annual 26th Congressional District Art Competition. Everhart, a senior art student of Mrs. Faith Jessup at Guyer High School, won first prize with her mixed media composition entitled “Huddle.” “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic achievements of our local high school students and to share their talents with the rest of the country,” Congressman Burgess said. “I am proud of Morgan, and I am glad to have her work hanging in our nation’s capitol, representing our district. She is extremely talented and has a tremendous gift.” Congressman Burgess honored all of the participants at a reception at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton hosted by the art competition’s co-sponsor, The Greater Denton Arts Council. The competition, which was open to public, private and home-schooled high school students in the district, was judged by University of North Texas art educators Robert William McCarter and Mickey McCarter. Everhart’s work will be displayed in the United States Capitol complex for the coming year. A ribbon-cutting ceremony opening the national 2009 “An Artistic Discovery” exhibition will take place in Washington, D.C. on June 24, 2009. The ceremony will honor the winning artists from congressional districts all over the country. The second, third and “Texas Choice” winners were also announced: Spencer Lynn, representing Liberty Christian School in Argyle, won second place and will have his artwork displayed in Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville district office for the next year. Third place winner Katherine Janes, representing Marcus High School in Flower Mound, will have her artwork hung in the Fort Worth district office. Voted “Texas Choice” by popular vote of the reception attendees was artwork by Miranda Wargo, representing Guyer High School. “Congratulations are in order for Morgan, Spencer, Katherine and Miranda for their creative achievements,” said Burgess.
04.18.2009	The weather in North Texas can change in an instant, and local residents can never be too prepared for the natural disasters that hit the region. In an effort to help North Texans be better prepared for severe weather and natural disasters, Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), today hosted a summit on Emergency Preparedness. share: f t The weather in North Texas can change in an instant, and local residents can never be too prepared for the natural disasters that hit the region. In an effort to help North Texans be better prepared for severe weather and natural disasters, Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), today hosted a summit on Emergency Preparedness. The event featured three panels of experts from the local, state, and federal levels, as well as area organizations, who provided weather and disaster information to local residents. There was also a fair with booths handing out information to attendees. “There is a wealth of information available to North Texans about what to do to ensure that your families and businesses are ready for severe weather and natural disasters,” said Congressman Burgess. “I want to do what I can to make sure you are ready when the next big storm hits. That’s why we are here today.” Representatives were on-hand from several organizations and entities, including the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); the Texas Governor's Division of Emergency Management; North Central Texas Council of Governments (NCTCOG); U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE); the University of North Texas (UNT); Denton Independent School District (DISD); the American Red Cross; American Association of Retired Persons (AARP); Denton County; and several area cities, including Denton, Flower Mound, and Lewisville. “We’re grateful to Congressman Burgess for hosting this summit and his involvement in emergency preparedness. It was an excellent opportunity to learn, first hand, the importance of making a plan, having a kit, and staying informed.” said Luis Tapia, Emergency Management Planning Coordinator at UNT and moderator for one of the panels. A few of the topics discussed included what roles the local, state and federal governments play when severe weather strikes, what organizations are available and what resources they can provide for citizens, how emergencies at schools are handled, and how to create a personal plan. The keynote address was given by Greg Fields, a meteorologist for WFAA-TV, Channel 8. “We are confident that the citizens in our community will benefit from the insights of experts who understand disasters and what we should do about them,” said Dr. David A. McEntire, Associate Dean of the College of Public Affairs and Community Service at UNT. Organizations with booths included the American Red Cross; the Denton County Amateur Radio Association, which had their e-COMM 701 communications vehicle on display in front of the complex; AAA; the Denton County Health Department; the National Weather Service; Lowe’s; and Home Depot, among others. Attendees were also able to sign up for CodeRED alerts, a free telephone notification system that delivers messages to home, business or cell phones in the event of a natural disaster or emergency in the area. “We are grateful to Congressman Burgess for recognizing the critical importance of the community’s emergency preparedness by hosting this event in the City of Denton,” said Denton Mayor Mark Burroughs. “The City has placed a great deal of emphasis on ensuring our preparedness and that of the community, as this is a team effort. Government cannot do this alone. Citizens too must be prepared to meet an emergency if we are to overcome one if and when it happens." “In recent years, this region has seen its fair share of flooding, wildfires, tornadoes, and other severe weather and natural disasters,” said Congressman Burgess. “The summit provided North Texans with information about the necessary steps to take before, during and after any natural disaster.”
04.02.2009	Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after voting against HR 1256, a bill to give the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authority over tobacco regulation... share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after voting against HR 1256, a bill to give the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authority over tobacco regulation: “The FDA is a beleaguered agency that cannot do what we currently require it to do with food and drugs. Agency officials have stated that the FDA is badly understaffed and underfunded. Yet, with this bill, we are giving the agency an entire new product group – tobacco. This is hardly a logical rationale, let alone safe for the American public. “Nonetheless, since the Majority was planning to move forward with this illogical bill, it was my intent to amend this flawed piece of legislation and make it a better product. I attempted to offer an amendment that would give the FDA the authority it will need to meaningfully regulate this product. Giving the FDA the power to reduce nicotine levels to zero would be the single-most important tool we could provide the agency to control this dangerous product. Unfortunately, the Majority did not allow for an open debate and would not allow my amendment to be offered. “Tobacco, when used as directed, kills 400,000 people a year. I lost both parents to tobacco-related illness, so I clearly understand the dangerous nature of this product. It cannot be made safe. So, I do not understand why we would have a bill to allow FDA to regulate tobacco usage, when we will not allow them to have the one tool that would actually do some good in this legislation. “Until the agency is able to demonstrate on a consistent basis they have the capacity to do all we currently require of them, we should not give them any additional responsibilities. The only thing we should give them is the resources they need to do their job. This is why I voted against giving the FDA authority over tobacco.” Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
04.02.2009	Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, voted for the responsible and fiscally conservative Republican Study Committee budget proposal earlier today. Burgess also voted against the Democrats’ budget plan that will increase the national deficit to unprecedented levels, raise taxes and borrow trillions of dollars that future generations will be forced to pay. share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, voted for the responsible and fiscally conservative Republican Study Committee budget proposal earlier today. Burgess also voted against the Democrats’ budget plan that will increase the national deficit to unprecedented levels, raise taxes and borrow trillions of dollars that future generations will be forced to pay. “Spending huge amounts of money we don’t have during a depression did not work in the 1930s and I certainly don’t intend to support that today. We cannot aimlessly spend our way back to economic prosperity, as proposed by President Obama and Democrat leaders in Congress with their budget. In fact, many predict it may prolong the recession or worse, prevent complete economic recovery and new growth,” Burgess said. “We’ve heard a lot about how the Democrats’ budget will protect and create jobs. Well, what better way to continue a recession than to kill job creation, and that’s exactly what this budget intends to do by instituting cap-and-trade, otherwise known as a huge tax on energy. If you want to kill jobs, if you want to drive jobs overseas, tax energy – that’s a proven way to do it. But I don’t recommend it. “Furthermore, the budget assumes billions of dollars will be raised by the new climate tax imposed by the cap-and-trade proposal. Capping our economy and trying to reduce carbon emissions to levels we've not seen since pre-industrialization is not a way to encourage new growth. Let's be honest, cap and tax is a way to raise revenue to pay for expanding social programs. It is no accident that the cost of expansion of government-sponsored health care in this country, at $1.2 trillion as estimated by the Congressional Budget Office, is almost exactly the amount of money that will be raised by the carbon tax – $1.5 trillion. “If the Democrats and President Obama get their way and impose this budget, families are going to need to revise their family budget. Instead, we need to revise this budget. At a time when families all across America are adjusting their budgets and tightening their belts, Democratic leaders are proposing a spending plan at a level we have never seen before, and it is bad policy.” Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.31.2009	Bipartisan legislation requiring more transparency and up-front information on health insurance plans, introduced by Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), passed the House of Representatives today. This proposal would make a technical correction to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and instruct health plans to notify individuals and employers of any exclusions or limitations on their health benefits at the point of sale. share: f t Bipartisan legislation requiring more transparency and up-front information on health insurance plans, introduced by Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), passed the House of Representatives today. This proposal would make a technical correction to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and instruct health plans to notify individuals and employers of any exclusions or limitations on their health benefits at the point of sale. “Individuals have the right to know what actions will and will not be covered by their health insurance plan, and this bipartisan bill takes an important step toward that goal,” Burgess said. “Many consumers or employers shopping for health care coverage are led to believe that care for a broken arm, for example, is the same regardless of how the injury happened – but that is not the case. “Trip and fall at home and break your arm – no problem. Get bucked off a horse while on vacation with the family and break your arm – you may be slapped with the bill. This is simply unfair. The lack of clarity underlying these exclusions has created a confusing situation for individuals that may ride motorcycles, horses, snowmobiles, or participate in other activities that could result in an injury. Millions of Americans enjoy these activities safely every year, utilizing proper safety precautions and staying within the framework of state laws. They have the right to know if their health care coverage may punish them for simply enjoying their hobbies. “We are hearing a lot about transparency these days – doesn’t it make sense to provide more transparency for Americans and companies shopping for health care insurance? Today we are going to stand up and shine the light on these exclusions so that Americans will not be caught off guard by exceptions buried deep within an insurance plan. This bill will take away that ambiguity and make sure that people are aware of any such restrictions on their coverage,” Burgess concluded. This legislation is supported by several organizations, including the American Motorcyclist Association, Motorcycle Industry Council, American Council of Snowmobile Associations, American Horse Council, American Recreation Coalition, American Trails, Americans for Responsible Recreational Access, Blue Ribbon Coalition, International Mountain Bicycling Association, , Motorcycle Riders Foundation, National Ski Areas Association, Specialty Vehicle Industry Council, Sporting Goods Manufacturing Association, the Washington Road Riders Association, and many others. Background On September 23, 2008, the House of Representatives unanimously passed HR 6908. The legislation was received in the Senate but no action was taken. Congressman Burgess reintroduced the bipartisan legislation with Congressman Bart Stupak (D-Michigan) this Congress, HR 1253, the Health Insurance Source of Injury Clarification Act. The bill is identical to HR 6908 and will: - Require that any limitations and restrictions on health plan benefits be explicit and clear; - Require that they be disclosed to the sponsor of the group health plan in advance of sale; and - Require that the issuer, in an easy to understand way, provide participants and beneficiaries a description of the limitations and restrictions as soon as they enroll. Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.19.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26), along with fellow Members of Congress, is proud to co-host a U.S. Service Academies Forum on Saturday, April 4th for students who reside in the 26th District of Texas and other local congressional districts. This informational forum provides interested students and parents an excellent opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission, and the selection process. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26), along with fellow Members of Congress Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Senator John Cornyn, Congressman Sam Johnson, Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman Joe Barton, Congresswoman Kay Granger, Congressman Kenny Marchant, Congressman John Carter and Congressman Pete Sessions, is proud to co-host a U.S. Service Academies Forum on Saturday, April 4th for students who reside in the 26th District of Texas and other local congressional districts. This informational forum provides interested students and parents an excellent opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission, and the selection process. Representatives from congressional offices and each of the five service academies - the Military Academy at West Point, NY, the Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT, the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY, and the Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO - will be on-site to meet and talk personally with those middle and high school students who want to find out about this unmatched opportunity. The event, which is free and open to the public, will be held from 8:00 AM – 12:00 NOON on the Southeast campus of Tarrant County College (2100 Southeast Parkway in Arlington). “This Academies Forum gives students throughout the region the opportunity to find out more about the application process to some of the nation’s top-notch educational institutions,” Burgess said. “I am pleased to co-host this informative event with my congressional colleagues.” Here are website links to each service academy to provide you with details regarding each institution: www.usma.edu (U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY) www.usna.edu (U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD) www.uscga.edu (U.S. Coast Guard Academy, New London, CT) www.usmma.edu (U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY) www.usafa.edu (U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO) For more information regarding the Academies Forum, please contact: Robin Vaughan, District Administrator Congressman Burgess’s office Phone: 972/434-9700 Email: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov
03.19.2009	Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the bicameral Joint Economic Committee, today sent a letter to President Obama calling for him to appoint an independent Special Prosecutor to investigate and prosecute those responsible for this financial crisis. With trillions of taxpayer dollars being spent by Congress, and the recent discovery that executives at American International Group (AIG) were issued bonuses paid for with bailout money, Congressman Burgess is calling attention to the need for an outsider to be appointed to assess the root causes of the problems and begin to restore accountability to the federal government. share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the bicameral Joint Economic Committee, today sent a letter to President Obama calling for him to appoint an independent Special Prosecutor to investigate and prosecute those responsible for this financial crisis. With trillions of taxpayer dollars being spent by Congress, and the recent discovery that executives at American International Group (AIG) were issued bonuses paid for with bailout money, Congressman Burgess is calling attention to the need for an outsider to be appointed to assess the root causes of the problems and begin to restore accountability to the federal government. “Because our nation now faces a financial crisis unlike anything we have seen, we must take special and necessary measures to avoid allowing this to happen again. At this time, the federal government’s lack of accountability is unparalleled,” Congressman Burgess said. “Americans are tired of Congress passing bailout after bailout with no regard for responsibility. I have voted against every single bailout and the so-called ‘economic stimulus’ package for several reasons, an important one being that I believe these bills were rushed through the system with little to no accountability or oversight. It is clear to me that there is a dire need to take additional measures to ensure that the federal government is spending American taxpayers' money wisely.” Today Congressman Burgess also voted against the AIG “bonus tax” legislation. He believes that the leaders in Congress and President Obama’s administration who allowed the AIG bonus exemption to be slipped into the economic stimulus package during the final hour must first hold themselves accountable. “If we expect the American people to trust the decisions we are making with their hard-earned money, Congress must first be held accountable. I have heard from several Texans who would like to know who allowed the bonus exemption for AIG executives to be added at the final hour to the economic stimulus package – and I would like to know myself. Was it Democratic leaders in the Senate and House? Was it administration officials at the Treasury Department? Americans would like to know who needs to be held accountable for this ridiculous provision. Additionally, I don’t believe the answer was to hastily change the tax code in order to deal with Congress’ short-sidedness in quickly passing the stimulus package. One thing is for certain, though – the federal government has foregone fundamental accountability standards and lost the trust of the American people,” Congressman Burgess said. Below is the text of the letter to President Obama: March 19, 2009 President Barack H. Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: The reoccurring government intervention into our nation's financial systems raises questions about the steps we must take to avoid a similar crisis in the future. Step one must be to rigorously identify each of the root causes. My constituents are concerned that those who were responsible for proper financial oversight, regulation, and risk assessment were negligent, and they must be held publicly accountable. Therefore, Mr. President, I am writing to you to request the appointment of a Special Counsel to investigate and prosecute those who may be responsible for this financial crisis. I sent a similar request to your predecessor, President George W. Bush, in October 2008, and I believe that since then the need for a Special Prosecutor has only increased. The Independent Counsel Law expired on June 30, 1999. As of that date, Congress may no longer request independent "Special Counsel" appointments through the United States Attorney General. Because our nation now faces a financial crisis unlike anything we have seen, we must take special and necessary measures to avoid allowing this to happen again. This situation calls for a team of independent prosecutors to audit all officers, public and private, regarding their financial and personal relationships and within full view of the public eye. Our nation faces a crisis of confidence and a crisis of confidence requires an injection of reassurance. We must do more to demonstrate to all Americans that their federal government will not condone, either directly or indirectly, corrupt business practices or public corruption by government officials. The appointment of a Special Prosecutor will help rebuild this confidence with the American people. Mr. President, in your Inaugural Address you said: "And those of us who manage the public's dollars will be held to account - to spend wisely, reform bad habits, and do our business in the light of day - because only then can we restore the vital trust between a people and their government." I adamantly agree with your statement, and it is clear to me that we both believe there is a need to take additional measures to ensure that the federal government is spending American taxpayers' money wisely. I ask you to please consider my request on behalf of the constituents of the Twenty-Sixth District of Texas. Sincerely, Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Member of Congress Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.19.2009	Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has introduced legislation to fix a provision in the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (CPSIA), which the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) has stated includes All Terrain Vehicles (ATVs), motorcycles and snowmobiles in the category of “children’s products.” The legislation, HR 1587, would exempt these products from the lead content requirements enacted by CPSIA. share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has introduced legislation to fix a provision in the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (CPSIA), which the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) has stated includes All Terrain Vehicles (ATVs), motorcycles and snowmobiles in the category of “children’s products.” The legislation, HR 1587, would exempt these products from the lead content requirements enacted by CPSIA. “Congress acted swiftly last year to pass legislation with the good intention of protecting our children from harmful lead-tainted toys, legislation which I supported,” Congressman Burgess said. “Unfortunately, the law’s definition of ‘children’s products’ has been too broadly interpreted by the Consumer Product Safety Commission to include youth model all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles and snowmobiles. I do not believe this was the original intent of Congress, and this legislation would fix what I believe is an unintended punishment.” Predictions show potential losses of up to $1 billion annually in retail economic value for ATV dealers and manufacturers if the law isn’t corrected to exclude these products. Since the new law was enacted, manufacturers have been forced to hold on to thousands of these products, and sales of related goods – protective gear, accessories, and repair parts and services – have slowed. “Each day this ban goes unchanged we continue to unintentionally harm businesses and families who rely on these products,” Congressman Burgess concluded. Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.17.2009	Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) today met with local leaders from Denton, including Mayor Mark Burroughs, City Manager George Campbell, and several city council members. The group discussed numerous issues that are important to the local community, including transportation, economic growth, protecting small businesses, energy efficiency, and public safety. share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) met with local leaders from Denton on Tuesday, including Mayor Mark Burroughs, City Manager George Campbell, and several city council members. The group discussed numerous issues that are important to the local community, including transportation, economic growth, protecting small businesses, energy efficiency, and public safety. “While many communities in Texas have fared better than other areas across the nation, we are not immune to the effects of the struggling economy,” Congressman Burgess said. “I will continue to work as your strongest advocate on the federal level, and I will make sure that North Texas receives its fair share of government assistance to help Denton weather this economic storm.” “It was great meeting with Congressman Burgess today. Denton is fortunate to have someone representing us who is so well informed about the issues that matter to our citizens. We discussed some of the important topics that we are looking to get assistance from our federal partners on, and Congressman Burgess is right on top of things,” Mayor Burroughs said. “He offered to give us guidance through these unchartered waters as we address the funding available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and pledged to help us ensure we get our fair share of stimulus money to help create jobs and maintain economic vitality.” Congressman Burgess discussed the steps he is taking on the federal level to help the local leaders continue to expand and improve the local transportation infrastructure, including improvements at Denton Municipal Airport. He also highlighted his efforts to ensure that leaders in Denton are aware of the opportunities presented by the economic recovery package so that they are able to get their fair share of the funding. As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Congressman Burgess reiterated his focus on energy efficiency, an issue of importance to both him and Mayor Burroughs. The local leaders also thanked Congressman Burgess for his continued support of small businesses in their community as well as public safety officials. “I thank Mayor Burroughs and the Denton delegation for taking the time to meet with me today. My best source of information is my constituents, and meeting with local leadership keeps me in touch with my district’s needs,” Congressman Burgess concluded. Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.17.2009	Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) met with the mayors, city council members and other local leaders from Richland Hills, North Richland Hills and Hurst on Tuesday and discussed several issues important to the local communities. The meetings focused on topics such as transportation, economic stability and protecting small businesses, Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), and public safety, among other issues. share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) met with the mayors, city council members and other local leaders from Richland Hills, North Richland Hills and Hurst on Tuesday and discussed several issues important to the local communities. The meetings focused on topics such as transportation, economic stability and protecting small businesses, Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), and public safety, among other issues. “While many communities in Texas have fared better than other areas across the nation, we are not immune to the effects of the struggling economy,” Congressman Burgess said. “I will continue to work as your strongest advocate on the federal level, and I will make sure that North Texas receives its fair share of government assistance to help our local communities weather this economic storm.” “We appreciated the opportunity to meet with Congressman Burgess today and are proud of his leadership in Congress,” North Richland Hills Mayor Oscar Trevino said. “During these tough economic times, we are fortunate to have Congressman Burgess represent North Richland Hills in Washington and are confident he will continue fighting for our community to ensure we get our fair share of federal assistance.” “We appreciate the reception we got from Congress today,” Hurst Mayor Richard Ward said. “Congressman Burgess seems to be genuinely interested in our concerns, and I think he will make every attempt to help us resolve our problems and meet our needs.” “I’m depending on Congressman Burgess to help us, especially with our drainage and flood control issues. I know he is working hard and I appreciate his efforts so far,” said Mayor David Ragan of Richland Hills. “I am looking forward to successful assistance for the needs of Richland Hills.” Congressman Burgess discussed the steps he is taking on the federal level to help the local leaders expand and improve the local transportation infrastructure. With North Texas being one of the fastest growing regions in the country, Congressman Burgess assured the local leaders that they can continue to count on him to advocate for their transportation and infrastructure needs. He further assured leaders that he will continue to keep them up to speed on the status of the Digital TV conversion and the effects it will have on their communities. The local leaders also highlighted the importance of CDBG funding for their local communities and stressed the benefits of the program and the needs it meets. They thanked Congressman Burgess for his continued support of small businesses in their community as well as public safety officials. Congressman Burgess also highlighted his efforts to ensure that local leaders are aware of the opportunities presented by the economic stimulus package so that they are able to get their fair share of the funding. “I thank the mayors and local leaders in these communities for taking the time to meet with me today. My best source of information is my constituents, and meeting with local leadership keeps me in touch with my district’s needs,” Congressman Burgess concluded. Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.16.2009	U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess today announced the 2009 Congressional High School Art Contest, “An Artistic Discovery,” for the 26th Congressional District. Since the U.S. House of Representatives created the competition in 1982, hundreds of thousands of talented high school students have served as artistic ambassadors of their communities. share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), today announced the 2009 Congressional High School Art Contest, “An Artistic Discovery,” for the 26th Congressional District. Since the U.S. House of Representatives created the competition in 1982, thousands of talented high school students have served as artistic ambassadors of their communities. “The annual Congressional Art Competition brings together the best student artwork from across the 26th District. Having their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol has been a great opportunity for the very gifted North Texas students who have been selected in previous years,” Burgess said. “I look forward to viewing this year’s entries.” The 26th District Congressional Art Competition, co-sponsored by the Greater Denton Arts Council, is open to home-school, public and private high school students residing in or attending schools located in the district. The winner, whose artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol complex for an entire year, will be invited to the Capitol this summer to attend the opening reception for the 2009 “Artistic Discovery” exhibition. The reception will honor each of the winning artists from across the country. Student artists’ work will be judged by a professional art educator chosen by the Greater Denton Arts Council. Competition participants, their parents, teachers, school administrators and local officials will be invited to attend a reception with Congressman Burgess to view all the entries on display at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton. All the participants will be honored at a recognition ceremony during the reception, and the first, second and third place winners will be announced. The second and third place winners will have the opportunity to have their work displayed publicly in Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville and Fort Worth district offices for the upcoming year. Letters informing 26th District art teachers of deadlines, guidelines and entry forms were recently sent to are high schools. Interested students should talk to their art teachers as soon as possible. The submission deadline is April 1, 2009. For more information, please contact Joan Self in the Lewisville district office at (972) 434-9700 or joan.self@mail.house.gov. NOTE: Attached is a photo of Congressman Burgess and Megan Minns, winner of the 26th Congressional District 2008 High School art competition. Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. He is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.13.2009	Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), has reintroduced the Medical Justice Act (HR 1468), which would improve patient access to doctors by putting an end to unnecessary lawsuits brought about by trial lawyers. share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), has reintroduced the Medical Justice Act (HR 1468), which would improve patient access to doctors by putting an end to unnecessary lawsuits brought about by trial lawyers. “Texas has led the nation in medical justice reform, and is now a model state for what successful tort reform looks like. Unfortunately, only a few states have followed suit, leaving too many Americans trapped in a system that is harmful to patients and doctors,” Congressman Burgess said. “We need national, across-the-board change in the tort reform system, and my bill would do just that. Runaway lawsuits are unnecessary and costly, and reforming medical liability must be a part of the national health care debate.” The Medical Justice Act would regulate civil actions for an injury or death resulting from health care by, among other things, limiting the non-economic damages that an individual could recover. Medical litigation and soaring malpractice insurance premiums contribute significantly to the rising cost of health care in the US. Physicians are forced to practice defensive medicine in fear of being second-guessed by trial lawyers, which results in millions of dollars in unnecessary tests, procedures, and imaging. Furthermore, seasoned medical professionals are retiring early because staying in practice is no longer financially feasible, further contributing to our nation's doctor shortage. “I commend Congressman Burgess for his persistence in pressing the tort reform debate,” said Texas Gov. Rick Perry. “The citizens of our state have been reaping the benefits of reforms we instituted in 2003 in the form of greater access to healthcare provided by the 14,496 doctors who have begun or resumed practicing in Texas since then. Instituting such reforms across the country would literally transform the quality of healthcare throughout the United States.” “All Americans deserve to enjoy the benefits Texas has seen thanks to the eradication of our epidemic of health care lawsuit abuse,” said Texas Medical Association President Josie R. Williams, MD. “Since our new law took effect, Texas has licensed 14,000 new physicians, including a record 3,621 in fiscal year 2008,” Dr. Williams said. “This has been good medicine for the people of Texas, and Dr. Burgess’ plan would apply this life-saving treatment to the rest of the country.” Texas has been largely successful at solving this problem, but other states lag far behind. Congressman Burgess’ bill would enact, on a national level, the commonsense reforms Texas put in place in 2003, when the Texas legislature passed legislation to address sky-rocketing medical lawsuits and a declining pool of medical professionals. The results are documented reduction in liability insurance rates, reported growth in the number of doctors licensed each year, and increased charity care, among others. Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. Congressman Burgess is also a member of the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
03.11.2009	Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), made the following remarks this morning after receiving the Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Society’s House Legislator of the Year Award: I am honored to receive this award and vow to continue my efforts in the cause to find answers to the questions posed by this disease. share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), made the following remarks this morning after receiving the Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Society’s House Legislator of the Year Award: “I am honored to receive this award and vow to continue my efforts in the cause to find answers to the questions posed by this disease. Every hour in the United States, someone new is diagnosed with MS. This is a cruel disease, and one of the great unsolved mysteries of our day. Many Americans know a person living with multiple sclerosis, including myself, and as co-chair of the Congressional MS Caucus, I intend to bring the needs of those individuals into the larger discussion of quality health care. “I have reintroduced bipartisan legislation again this Congress to create a national MS Registry to house information about Americans living with MS. A national registry would allow for future planning of health care needs, detect changes in health practices, promote advocacy, and support a wide range of research initiatives. We must work together to improve access to quality health services, to break down barriers, and to make MS therapies more affordable. Creating a national registry like this one will help achieve these critical goals and provide consistency and coordination in the care of those living with MS. “Finally, we must always remember that behind every statistic is the face of a family member or friend. We have a shared responsibility to offer help and hope. There is no better time than now to begin offering it.” Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D., is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and three of its subcommittees: Health, Energy & Environment, and Oversight & Investigations. Congressman Burgess is also a member of the bipartisan House-Senate Joint Economic Committee. Prior to becoming a member of Congress in 2002, Congressman Burgess practiced medicine in North Texas for over 25 years.
02.18.2009	Last Friday, when the House of Representatives came together to vote on the fate of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, I made the decision to vote against a bill that I knew would not provide the revival that our economy desperately needs. In our state of economic emergency, this bill—filled to the brim with non-emergency spending—makes a mockery of Americans who are struggling just to get by. share: f t I offer my congratulations to House Democrats for their egregious victory of passing the biggest spending bill this country has ever seen. I offer my sympathies to the American public, who will not see reprieve from their economic suffering any time soon. Last Friday, when the House of Representatives came together to vote on the fate of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, I made the decision to vote against a bill that I knew would not provide the revival that our economy desperately needs. In our state of economic emergency, this bill—filled to the brim with non-emergency spending—makes a mockery of Americans who are struggling just to get by. Americans are hurting financially and Congress needed to take action, but the solution should not have been an onslaught of rash spending. Money should be given back to the people by means of fast-acting tax relief to stimulate the economy through consumer spending. Unfortunately, the faction that won the stimulus contest thought pet project spending by the government was a better idea. The result is a disjointed spending bill that is unlikely to help our economy at all.
02.10.2009	Congressman Michael C. Burgess [R-Texas] introduced two bills in the House of Representatives Monday with Congressman Gene Green [D-Texas] in a bipartisan effort to address an impending physician shortage that poses a critical threat to our already-ailing healthcare system. The Physician Workforce and Graduate Medical Education Enhancement Act, HR 914, and the Preventive Medicine and Public Health Training Act, HR 916, represent a prudent effort to address this potential workforce crisis. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess [R-Texas] introduced two bills in the House of Representatives Monday with Congressman Gene Green [D-Texas] in a bipartisan effort to address an impending physician shortage that poses a critical threat to our already-ailing healthcare system. The Physician Workforce and Graduate Medical Education Enhancement Act, HR 914, and the Preventive Medicine and Public Health Training Act, HR 916, represent a prudent effort to address this potential workforce crisis. According to the Council on Graduate Medical Education (GME), "If the nation's population continues to use services as it has in the past, and if physicians practice in the future as they have in the past, the nation is likely to face a shortage of physicians in the coming years." “Each generation of new physicians is getting smaller, while the number of people needing care only grows,” said Rep. Burgess on Monday. Burgess, who practiced medicine for over 20 years before becoming a Member of Congress, is especially concerned about the dwindling number of up-and-coming medical students interested in specialized and rural health care. “The Physician Workforce and Graduate Medical Education Enhancement Act is targeted at the weakest spots of the medical workforce: specializations like family medicine, emergency medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, behavioral health, and pediatrics, and rural health programs for small and developing communities,” explained Rep. Burgess. This legislation will assist small hospitals that serve rural or growing areas by providing them with interest-free loans to establish a residency training program for certain high need medical specialties. As most physicians tend to settle in the communities where they complete their residency training programs, programs created by the GME bill will help smaller and emerging communities to attract and retain the medical professionals their communities will rely on in the future. Under the program, hospitals could receive up to $1 million over 4 years. The second bill introduced by Rep. Burgess and Rep. Green presents another solution to the looming doctor shortage. The Preventive Medicine and Public Health Training Act promotes a preventive-minded public health system, authorizing $43 million in training grants through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to public health teaching institutions. With the goal of developing Preventive Medicine training and residency programs, this bill would shore up our preventive medicine physician workforce. “What’s the point of all the stress we’ve been going through in Congress to reform the healthcare system if there won’t be enough doctors to go around by the time we’re done? If we’re going to pour our efforts into bettering American healthcare, we need to cover all the bases, instead of doing spot-treatments.”
02.06.2009	Rep. Burgess received the January jobs report from Dr. Keith Hall, Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), at the monthly meeting of the bicameral and bipartisan Joint Economic Committee (JEC) today. share: f t Rep. Burgess received the January jobs report from Dr. Keith Hall, Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), at the monthly meeting of the bicameral and bipartisan Joint Economic Committee (JEC) today. As one of the newest members of the JEC, Congressman Burgess is listening to the experts and asking questions before pursuing the best policy approach to address the anemic domestic jobs situation. “The state of our economy is falling, and we must take action before it becomes irreparable. The Joint Economic Committee has the opportunity to construct thoughtful, comprehensive ideas and advice. We have top level macro and micro economic experts working directly for the JEC and hear testimony from the brightest minds on economics from the public and private sector. Committee Members will be able to provide options to Congress involving more thorough, targeted solutions that will work at the root of our economic crisis. This is certainly a more responsible and productive approach than impulsively rushing makeshift bills through Congress, as is currently trendy among House Majority Leadership," Burgess said. The Bureau of Labor Statistics issues monthly reports on unemployment statistics and related jobs data. The past twelve months’ reports have exhibited marked downward trends in employment. Today’s hearing covered statistics from January 2009. According to BLS Commissioner Hall, "total nonfarm payroll employment fell by 598,000, and the unemployment rate rose from 7.2 to 7.6 percent. January's sharp drop in employment brings job losses to 3.6 million since the start of the recession in December 2007. About half of the decline occurred in the past 3 months." The Joint Economic Committee, established under the Employment Act of 1946, was created by Congress to review economic conditions and to analyze the effectiveness of economic policy. The JEC holds a hearing on the first Friday of every month to discuss the findings of the Bureau of Labor Statistics monthly employment report for the previous month.
02.05.2009	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. will add to his Congressional responsibilities this term. Rep. Burgess has been tapped by Republican Leader John Boehner to serve on the Joint Economic Committee. share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. will add to his Congressional responsibilities this term. Rep. Burgess has been tapped by Republican Leader John Boehner to serve on the Joint Economic Committee, a bicameral, bipartisan panel. Composed of ten members each from the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Joint Economic Committee researches and holds hearings on the U.S. Economy “I can think of no better place for me at this moment than the Joint Economic Committee, where I will be an active participant in our nation’s economic recovery. The economy will occupy a large portion of Congress’ time and attention, and this appointment puts me at the epicenter of the situation, where I can do my part to help right the ship,” Rep. Burgess said Thursday. Rep. Boehner showed his support, saying “Rep. Burgess has a track record of hard work and success, and his informed approach to legislating will serve the committee well.” Rep. Burgess will continue his service as a member of the powerful House Energy and Commerce Committee for the 111th Congress where he sits on three subcommittees including Health, Energy and the Environment, and Oversight and Investigations. He will also return to the House Republican Policy Committee for a fourth term. The House Republican Policy Committee serves as a formal council in which the Republican Party formulates and implements legislative priorities. Rep. Burgess’ former committee assignments include the Transportation and Infrastructure, Government Reform and Science Committees.
01.30.2009	Rep. Burgess voted against the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 on Wednesday evening. The vote was unanimous among all Republicans in the House of Representatives, who illustrated through clear voice and solidarity the folly of the legislation. “The product contained very little of what could pass for economic benefit.” share: f t Rep. Burgess voted against the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 on Wednesday evening. The vote was unanimous among all Republicans in the House of Representatives, who illustrated through clear voice and solidarity the folly of the legislation. “The product contained very little of what could pass for economic benefit.” “Stimulus measures are rarely successful on a large scale, and this one certainly missed the mark. The President received his stimulus legislation, but by the time it had been through the legislative mill, I don’t believe it was exactly what he had been hoping for.” The American people are rightfully anxious about their future, and they are steadily losing faith in their government. They are tired of being hoodwinked by a Congress that doesn’t follow through on its word, and doesn’t act in the best interests of the people it claims to serve. Congress had the chance to energize the economy as well as the morale of American citizens, but failed. “We needed the Democratic Speaker to move beyond partisanship, to allow work on truly bipartisan solutions to the nation’s problems. Instead, we were given a generic spending bill that will tax our children’s children.” Our challenged economy does not provide an excuse for reckless spending; on the contrary, we must be precise in our economic decisions, instead of throwing money at random targets. “We know that our country is facing a recession and that Congress must take action to turn our economy around. However, I am very wary of excess government spending and would have preferred an approach targeted towards responsible recovery. I wanted proof that this spending would create new private sector jobs rather than spending for spending’s sake." Congressman Burgess would support a plan that would allow people who pay taxes to keep more of their own money. If the government taxed less, more money would be available for consumers to stimulate the economy through new personal consumption. Taking less of taxpayer dollars, allowing them to reinvest it in their future and in their country’s future is an ideal that has enriched our country’s economy for years. Our economy is based on choice and freedom and that has made our country great; we must not stifle that. Congressman Burgess also wanted to see more action taken via less punitive taxation to support individuals and small businesses that are fighting to stay alive during this recession. “Before any massive spending package was even considered, we should have tried lowering personal income taxes and increasing small-business tax deductions.” “My constituents have been calling my office, telling me to stop spending their money. They want me to let them spend it themselves, because they know how to spend it best. I believe this, and I am disheartened that I must face the citizens of my district and tell them that the government decided to spend their income for them.”
01.26.2009	Rep. Burgess, disappointed by the Senate Finance Committee’s approval of Timothy Geithner last week, is calling on Senators to give more consideration to the matter before making their final decisions. The Senate is expected to vote on the confirmation of Geithner as Secretary of the United States Treasury early this week. "I am concerned that Geithner’s financial lapses will provide distraction at a time when our nation’s financial state deserves close attention. How can we ask citizens to pay their taxes if we appoint tax evaders to head the Treasury Department?" share: f t Rep. Burgess, disappointed by the Senate Finance Committee’s approval of Timothy Geithner last week, is calling on Senators to give more consideration to the matter before making their final decisions. The Senate is expected to vote on the confirmation of Geithner as Secretary of the United States Treasury early this week. "I am concerned that Geithner’s financial lapses will provide distraction at a time when our nation’s financial state deserves close attention. How can we ask citizens to pay their taxes if we appoint tax evaders to head the Treasury Department?" Mr. Geithner is suspected of failing to comply with tax code between 2001 and 2004, yet we are words away from putting him in charge of tax collection enforcement. "On Wednesday, I contacted Chairman Baucus and Ranking Member Grassley of the Senate Finance Committee to express my concerns. Unfortunately, they have gone unanswered. This week, I will continue to press for further investigation as the Senate prepares to cast its final vote on the matter.” We must resist the temptation to be impulsive and instead take the time to make sure our candidate is someone with more than a solid resume: someone who will also make a personal commitment to upholding the law. Tax evasion, be it by design or merely by inattention, not only trivializes each citizen’s duty to pay taxes, but makes the tax burden that much greater for those who do follow the law. We have called this a time of change for our nation, but this decision is yet another clear illustration of the perception that Washington is a place where the well-connected are given special privileges. At a time when Americans are losing faith in Congress, it is imperative that we convey that it’s not okay to appoint leaders who break the law. It’s time to bring credibility and integrity back to the government.
01.22.2009	When it comes to constructing a healthcare plan for American children, we need to do it right. Because of the lack of input into this bill, several problems were not addressed and I could not support the final bill. share: f t When it comes to constructing a healthcare plan for American children, we need to do it right. Rushing a bill to the floor, without going through regular order hinders the legislative process that creates sound policy for America. If Members of Congress are confident in their ability to legislate and are confident in the merits of the legislation they support, why would they seek to stifle any opposition? What are they afraid of? Don’t forget that there are fifty-four brand new Members of Congress who have just been sworn in, but have had no opportunity to impact this legislation. Because of the lack of input into this bill, several problems were not addressed and I could not support the final bill. Disappointingly, the legislation does not require states to enroll their poorest children before expanding their program to include children in more affluent families. Additionally, estimates from the Congressional Budget Office suggest that under this legislation, 2 million children will lose private insurance and be forced into a government program. It also weakens requirements to verify citizenship. These provisions will lead to enrollment errors and abuses. The government will end up covering children that are not U.S. Citizens Another problem with the bill is that it isn’t funded by a stable funding source. Regardless of how you feel about cigarette taxes, this bill only funds SCHIP for four and a half years and will drive down smoking rates (a good thing) reducing funding available to the program (a bad thing). And in a twist that borders on bizarre, the bill prohibits building physician-owned hospitals or expanding existing physician-owned facilities. Where else would the government prohibit a legitimate business enterprise based on your professional degree? A good cause doesn’t justify a badly written bill. This was badly written bill that needed to be improved.
01.21.2009	Today, Rep. Michael Burgess sent a letter to leaders of the Senate Finance Committee stating his concerns regarding Timothy Geithner. share: f t Today, Rep. Michael Burgess sent a letter to Senator Max Baucus, Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Senator Chuck Grassley, Ranking Member on the Senate Finance Committee. The letter expressed Congressman Burgess’ concerns over the proposed appointment of Timothy Geithner to the position of Secretary of the Treasury and seeks greater disclosure of his financial information. Click here to see a copy of the letter: Rep. Burgess sends letter to Senate Finance Committee (PDF format)
12.11.2008	Putting a band-aid on a gaping wound might cover the injury temporarily, but it doesn’t cure the problem in the long run. This is analogous to the automaker financing package passed by the House and that is why I could not support it. share: f t Putting a band-aid on a gaping wound might cover the injury temporarily, but it doesn’t cure the problem in the long run. This is analogous to the automaker financing package passed by the House and that is why I could not support it. This bailout empowers the federal government to micromanage private industry in an unprecedented and unacceptable way. As someone who has experience running a business, I can assure you outside mandates are not the prescription for success or even for staying solvent. As a matter of principle, allowing the government to choose winners and losers does not comport with a free society. It does not seem equitable for Congress to pick which industry is more deserving of taxpayer dollars than another. Some have referred to this bill as a "bailout," but it is like an approval for an extended line of credit between automakers and Congress. We have lost the ability to say "no" when they return to Washington to ask for the next installment.
12.09.2008	Today, U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) announced that local artist Jo Williams of Denton created a holiday ornament that is currently being displayed on the White House Christmas tree. Ms. Williams was selected by Burgess earlier this summer to represent the 26th Congressional District. share: f t Today, U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) announced that local artist Jo Williams of Denton created a holiday ornament that is currently being displayed on the White House Christmas tree. Ms. Williams was selected by Burgess earlier this summer to represent the 26th Congressional District. Congressman Burgess noted that “Ms. Williams’ creation makes the 26th District proud. She is an extremely talented artist.” Each Member of Congress was invited by the White House to select an artist to create an ornament that was specially designed to characterize the unique, patriotic spirit of their state, district or territory and complement a red, white, and blue color scheme. Ms. Williams, and other selected artists from across the country, were provided a 9 inch blank glass ornament. They were requested not to reveal the holiday theme of “A Red, White & Blue Christmas” until First Lady Laura Bush unveiled the White House Christmas tree last week. Ms. Williams painted a Texas flag draped around the ornament as well as depicting two Texas symbols, bluebonnets and an armadillo in a fantastical red. Mrs. Bush highlighted Ms. Williams’ ornament on “Good Morning America” as she showed off the White House Christmas tree, commenting that it was “Barney and Beazley’s (the Bush’s Scottish Terriers), favorite ornament…they love to chase armadillos when they’re at the ranch.” Each artist was invited to a reception at the White House to see their artwork displayed on the towering 18 Fraser fir in the Blue Room. Ms. Williams attended with her granddaughter, Zoe. “It was a thrill and a wonderful opportunity,” said Ms. Williams. “The White House was elegant and beautiful.” Ms. Williams also served as the judge for the TX-26 Congressional High School art competition earlier this year. To see Ms. Williams' ornament, please click the links below: Ornament Image - Armadillo Ornament Image - Bluebonnets Ornament Image - Texas Flag Artist Jo Williams with Ornament
11.21.2008	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) recently announced members of his 2008 Service Academy Advisory Board. The twelve-member board met earlier in November to advise him upon the selection of qualified service academy candidates. share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) recently announced members of his 2008 Service Academy Advisory Board. The twelve-member board met earlier in November to advise him upon the selection of qualified service academy candidates. The board’s purpose is to comprehensively screen and interview high school and college applicants wishing to receive a congressional nomination; the board then makes recommendations to Congressman Burgess for final review and nominations are sent to the individual service academies (U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY) for appointment consideration. “One of the privileges I have serving in the U.S. House of Representatives is the opportunity to nominate outstanding young people from the 26th District to our nation’s service academies,” Congressman Michael C. Burgess said. “We have a stellar group of former military, education and civic leaders serving on the Advisory Board. In this tumultuous time in our nation’s history, many young people in our area have expressed their interest in serving their country by attending one of our nation’s service academies. After a rigorous selection process, I was grateful to receive excellent recommendations from this outstanding board.” Retired Air Force Lt. General Charles R. Hamm serves as Chairman of the Board. Congressman Burgess noted, “General Hamm’s highly regarded service as the former Superintendent of the U.S. Air Force Academy enables him to capably lead the Board.” “I know how serious Congressman Burgess takes his responsibility to nominate highly qualified young people to the academies and working with this distinguished board, I believe we were able to recommend the right people to him for consideration,” said General Hamm. The members of the 26th Congressional District Service Academy Advisory Board are as follows: 26th Congressional District Service Academy Advisory Board Chairman: Lt. General Charles R. Hamm, U.S. Air Force (Ret.) of Argyle Aviation Consultant Former Superintendent - U.S. Air Force Academy; 35 years service in USAF National War College, 1972; Air Command and Staff College, 1969 M.S., Auburn University, 1969; B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1956 Mr. Gene Collett of Flower Mound Regulatory Compliance Consultant Former Academy Board Member, U.S. Cong. Eric Cantor (VA-7) Captain, U.S. Army, Parachutist and Pilot MBA, University of Texas, Austin, 1989 B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1982 Mrs. Elaine Emery of Lewisville Community Volunteer: Medical Center of Lewisville Board of Trustees, Denton Co. Health Advisory Board, Childrens Advocacy Center of Denton Co. Board of Directors, Christian Community Action Board of Directors B.S., University of Oklahoma, 1968 LCDR (sel) William L. Hagan III of Flower Mound Engineering Duty Officer (Salvage Diving Officer), Naval Aviator (Pilot) Masters in Mechanical Engineering, Naval Engineering, and Systems Design and Management, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 2008 B.S., U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY, 1999 Mr. J. Mark Lambright of Flower Mound Chief Executive Officer, HealthPoints University of Texas at Dallas School of Mgmt. Board of Advisors MBA, Finance, The Wharton School, Univ. of PA, 1983 B.S. U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD, 1975 Dr. Robert G. Landolt of Fort Worth Professor of Chemistry, Texas Wesleyan University, Fort Worth, 1981-Present Department Chairman, 1981-85, 1990-95 Distinguished Visiting Professor of Chemistry, U.S. Air Force Academy, 2004-05 Ph.D., University of Texas at Austin, 1965 B.A., Austin College, 1961 Mr. Kevin R. Purnell of Lantana Project Manager, Siemens Infrastructure Logistics Communications Officer, Personal Wireless Communications & Spectrum Management, Luke AFB, Arizona (2007) Lieutenant, U.S. Air Force, 2004-7 MBA, WP Carey School of Business, Arizona State University, 2007 BS, U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO, 2004 Mr. Thomas A. Russell of Flower Mound Aerospace Consultant Captain, U.S. Army Infantry Officer, Airborne Ranger B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1963 CAPT Peter Stamps, USNR of Fort Worth Quality Assurance Manager, North America, Hanson Pressure Pipe, Inc. Former Academy Board Member, U.S. Senator Rod Grams (MN) MBA, University of Phoenix, 1999 BSME, U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD, 1985 Graduate, Naval War College, Newport, RI Mr. Peter Strohla of Frisco Director, Refrigerated Commodities, Horizon Lines MBA, University of Tennessee, 2003 B.S., U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY, 1985 Mr. Richard Walker of North Richland Hills Sr. Business Analyst, Commercial Support and Services, Bell Helicopter Air Force Association, State Vice President for Awards Past President, Air Force Association-Fort Worth Chapter State Treasurer, Texas Aerospace Education Foundation B.S., Oklahoma State University, 1982 Dr. Richard Wells of Denton Professor of Journalism, University of North Texas Faculty, Center for Civil-Military Relations, Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, California Former President and Superintendent, Naval Postgraduate School Former Special Assistant to Secretary of the Navy Ph.D. Texas A&M University, 1980 M.J. (1975) & B.S.(1965), University of North Texas
11.19.2008	Congressman Michael Burgess issued the following statement in response to the House Republican Leadership elections: I congratulate Congressman Thaddeus McCotter (R-MI) on his reelection as Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee. He will serve our Conference well and I look forward to working with him in the days ahead. share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess issued the following statement in response to the House Republican Leadership elections: I congratulate Congressman Thaddeus McCotter (R-MI) on his reelection as Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee. He will serve our Conference well and I look forward to working with him in the days ahead. Our nation is struggling and our leaders must step up. The credit crunch continues, the auto makers are running out of money, and families across this country are worried they may lose their home. Uncertain times demand bold ideas. I look forward to working with my colleagues to reshape our policy, our party, and our country. This requires a government that is in partnership with the American people while never forgetting that they are in the driver’s seat. It also requires tireless effort and an unending optimism. Great challenges await us, but our future is bright, and the work begins now.
11.14.2008	The application process for media credentials for the 2009 Inaugural Ceremonies has begun, and will run until December 15, 2008 share: f t The application process for media credentials for the 2009 Inaugural Ceremonies has begun, and will run until December 15, 2008. All requests for media credentials for the inaugural ceremonies will be handled by the Senate media galleries. Media wishing to obtain credentials for the swearing-in ceremonies must apply for credentials through an on-line application process. The cut-off date to apply is December 15. Instructions and the online application are featured on each of the gallery websites. Senate Radio/TV Gallery: http://www.senate.gov/galleries/radiotv/inaugural.htm Senate Daily Press Gallery: http://www.senate.gov/galleries/daily/ Senate Periodical Press Gallery: http://www.senate.gov/galleries/pdcl/inauguration.htm Senate Press Photographers’ Gallery: http://www.senate.gov/galleries/pdcl/inauguration.htm The number of media credentials issued for the swearing-in ceremonies will be limited by space constraints. Completion of an application does not guarantee that credentials will be issued. Media credentials for other inaugural events (parade, balls, and any other inaugural events) will be handled by the Presidential Inaugural Committee (PIC) once it is formed. The Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies expects that the PIC will be up and running by next week, and will post a link to its website as soon as it becomes available.
11.12.2008	U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville), M.D., yesterday recognized five local heroes with the Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC) for their military service and ongoing commitment to their community. The recipients include members of the Army, Air Force, Marines, and Navy. share: f t U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville), M.D., yesterday recognized five local heroes with the Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC) for their military service and ongoing commitment to their community. The recipients include members of the Army, Air Force, Marines, and Navy. “These extraordinary individuals were honored for their patriotic, dedicated service in the Armed Forces of the United States and continued service to their communities,” said Rep. Burgess. The CVC was created four years ago to honor the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. The five recipients of this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation include: Major Earl L. Russell, III (U.S. Army/Army Reserve, Ret.) of Gainesville; Commander Robert Heid (U.S. Navy, Ret.) of Flower Mound; Colonel Walter W. Pine (U.S. Army/U.S. Air Force, Ret.) of Keller; Staff Sergeant Mark H. Graunke, Jr., (U.S. Marine Corps, Ret.) of Denton; and, Sergeant Donald W. Pettigrew (U.S. Marine Corps) of Gainesville. This year’s commendations were presented at the sixth annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association and the City of Highland Village. “Thank you again to all the veterans for your service to the United States of America,” said Rep. Burgess. “On behalf of the citizens of the 26th District and a grateful nation, we are forever in your debt.” To see the commendations given by Rep. Burgess to the five recognized veterans, please click the links below: Staff Sergeant Mark H. Graunke, Jr. Commander Robert Heid Sergeant Donald W. Pettigrew Colonel Walter W. Pine Major Earl L. Russell, III
11.05.2008	Our Republican ship needs righting and the House Republican Policy Committee can help chart a fresh course. I’m asking for Members' support to help the House GOP leadership create this new roadmap. share: f t U.S. Representative Michael Burgess (R-Texas) today issued the following statement after announcing he is running to become Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee, a leadership position: Our Republican ship needs righting and the House Republican Policy Committee can help chart a fresh course. I’m asking for Members' support to help the House GOP leadership create this new roadmap. The Policy Committee provides a platform for Republican ideas to be introduced, improved, and communicated within the GOP Conference and to the public at-large. We must maximize this platform if we want to regain the majority. The GOP has always been a party of ideas. It’s time we recapture that designation. Under my leadership of the House Republican Policy Committee, I will spend every day working to meet that expectation.
10.28.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville) today urged President Bush to launch a Special Counsel investigation into the causes of the nation's financial crisis. Saying,"my constituents are concerned that those who were responsible for proper financial oversight, regulation, and risk assessment were negligent, and they must be held publicly accountable," the Lewisville Congressman called on the President to appoint a special counsel to investigate and prosecute those who may be responsible. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville) today urged President Bush to launch a Special Counsel investigation into the causes of the nation's financial crisis. Saying,"my constituents are concerned that those who were responsible for proper financial oversight, regulation, and risk assessment were negligent, and they must be held publicly accountable," the Lewisville Congressman called on the President to appoint a special counsel to investigate and prosecute those who may be responsible.
10.17.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., has signed on as a co-sponsor of H.R. 6110, A Roadmap for America’s Future. This important legislation is a comprehensive plan that draws on America’s strengths to restore our long-held legacy of leaving the next generation better off. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., has signed on as a co-sponsor of H.R. 6110, A Roadmap for America’s Future. This important legislation is a comprehensive plan that draws on America’s strengths to restore our long-held legacy of leaving the next generation better off. “With Congress spending untold amounts bailing out financial institutions, the goal of reining in the federal debt and excessive spending has never been more critical,” commented Rep. Burgess. “Piecemeal or incremental “fixes” will never match the magnitude or urgency of the entitlement funding problem. This plan provides a comprehensive approach critical for achieving real, long-term solutions for solvency,” he continued. Authored by Rep. Paul Ryan, Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, “A Roadmap for America’s Future” is a three-pronged approach to restoring our nation’s fiscal integrity. First, it focuses on health and retirement security by ensuring universal access to health insurance. It also rescues and strengthens Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security – allowing them to fulfill their missions and making them permanently solvent. Second, the Roadmap will return federal spending growth to sustainable levels and lift the massive debt burden from the shoulders of future generations. Finally, this legislation promotes solid, sustained economic growth and job creation here in America, and puts the U.S. in a position to lead – not merely survive – in the global marketplace. In response to Burgess’ support, Congressman Ryan said, “I commend Representative Burgess for his work and commitment on this issue, and it is my sincere hope that others will follow his lead to become part of the solution." When discussing H.R. 6110, Burgess said, “I’ve been concerned with rampant entitlement spending and the auto-pilot nature of it for many years. My real sense of urgency came about when Robert Walker, former Comptroller General for the federal government, described the entitlement crisis as a fiscal cancer and the catastrophic outcomes it will lead to,” said Burgess. A Roadmap for America’s Future currently has eight co-sponsors and awaits committee action in the U.S. House of Representatives.
10.14.2008	On Friday, October 10, 2008, Rep. Burgess wrote to Secretary Paulson. Included in the letter were recommendations for strengthening our financial system. share: f t On Friday, October 10, 2008, Rep. Burgess sent a letter to Secretary Paulson that made recommendations for strengthening our financial system. The letter can be viewed here: Rep. Burgess' Letter to Sec. Paulson
10.03.2008	This bailout bill’s second verse is essentially the same as the first so I cannot support it. Today’s vote is a difficult one and there are good, well-intentioned people on both sides. Action is needed and there are some necessary tax relief measures contained within. Yet, a bailout by any other name is still a bailout. It’s as if we opened up the patient, poked around the tumor, and stitched them right back up without doing anything about the cancer. share: f t This bailout bill’s second verse is essentially the same as the first so I cannot support it. Today’s vote is a difficult one and there are good, well-intentioned people on both sides. Action is needed and there are some necessary tax relief measures contained within. Yet, a bailout by any other name is still a bailout. It’s as if we opened up the patient, poked around the tumor, and stitched them right back up without doing anything about the cancer. Does this bailout hold people accountable? Not the right ones. Instead, it puts the whole country on the hook for the greed and irresponsibility of a few. Is expanding the size and scope of our government really the only available answer? Should Washington subsidize the irresponsibility and arrogance of Wall Street? The phone, fax, and email systems in my office have been deluged with overwhelming opposition to this massive, unprecedented government giveaway. People are outraged that we are in this predicament and rightly so. They want accountability and not rewards for recklessness. They don’t want Washington writing blank checks that their children and grandchildren will be forced to fund. How does this bailout prevent this from happening again? What happened to personal responsibility? These questions remain unanswered as the Congress agrees to support the largest public intervention in the private market in history.
09.30.2008	Today, Rep. Burgess joined with 63 of his peers in the House of Representatives, signing a letter to urge SEC Chairman Christopher Cox to shore up the capital of the nation’s banking system by suspending the use of fair value accounting. share: f t Today, Rep. Burgess joined with 63 of his peers in the House of Representatives, signing a letter to urge SEC Chairman Christopher Cox to shore up the capital of the nation’s banking system by suspending the use of fair value accounting. The entire text of the letter can be viewed here: Letter to SEC Chairman
09.29.2008	If implemented, these proposals will stabilize the banking industry and make economic downturns less severe and shorter in length. The estimated cost is de minimis and they can make an impact almost immediately. share: f t Summary of Key Issues by Mr. William M. Isaac (former Chairman of the FDIC) Addressed to the Republican Policy Committee and the Republican Study Committee (September 28, 2008) If implemented, these proposals will stabilize the banking industry and make economic downturns less severe and shorter in length. The estimated cost is de minimis and they can make an impact almost immediately. Net Worth Certificate • Congress should approve a “net worth certificate” similar to what was enacted in the 1980s for the saving s and loan industry. This action resolved $100 billion insolvency in the saving banks for a total cost of less than $2 billion. • A net worth certificate shores up the capital of weak banks to give them more time to resolve problems without any subsidy or cash outlay by the government. • The FDIC should purchase net worth certificates in troubled banks that the FDIC determines can be viable if give more time. • The FDIC should look at a bank to determine if give more time (approximately 5 years) it is reasonable to conclude the bank could pay back a note. If the answer is yes, a note is issued to the institution. • Banks entering the program should agree to strict supervision from the FDIC, including oversight of compensation of top executives and removal of poor management. • Net worth certificates should be paid for by issuing FDIC senior notes to the banks resulting in NO cash outlay. • The interest rate on the net worth certificate and the FDIC notes should be identical so NO subsidy is necessary. Modify Fair Value Accounting • Fair Value Accounting dictates that financial institutions holding financial instruments available for sale (such as mortgage-backed securities) must mark those assets to market. • Currently, there is NO meaningful market for mortgage backed securities. • Assets should not be marked to unrealistic fire-sale prices. Regulators must evaluate the assets on the basis of their true economic value. • The SEC should exercise its immediate ability to suspend fair value accounting standards as applied to mortgage backed securities. End “Naked” Short Selling • In recent years the SEC has lifted restraints on short sellers of stock to allow “naked selling” (shorting a stock without actually possessing it) and to eliminate the requirement that short sellers could sell only on an uptick in the market. • The Feds have temporarily restricted short sells on financial stocks. • Going forward, there should be no naked short sales and short sells should only take place when there are up ticks in the market. The FDIC should protect all general creditors in bank failures during the period of instability.
09.29.2008	Our financial markets are stressed to the breaking point and decisive action is needed to prevent further harm to our economy. This bill was not the right remedy and there are responsible alternatives. My vote today was a vote to protect the American people, which is job one in the Constitution and a responsibility I take very seriously. I cannot in good conscience support a bill that exposes taxpayers to more debt, higher taxes, and untold risk. Rewarding such reckless behavior is hazardous. share: f t Our financial markets are stressed to the breaking point and decisive action is needed to prevent further harm to our economy. This bill was not the right remedy and there are responsible alternatives. My vote today was a vote to protect the American people, which is job one in the Constitution and a responsibility I take very seriously. I cannot in good conscience support a bill that exposes taxpayers to more debt, higher taxes, and untold risk. Rewarding such reckless behavior is hazardous. Senator McCain and House leaders, however, do deserve tremendous credit for moving the original proposal toward one that puts the interests of regular Americans ahead of Wall Street. This is the point at which we should start discussing the alternative solutions that are out there. Ninety-nine percent of the North Texans who have contacted my office have expressed disgust for any proposal that uses $700 billion in taxpayer funds to backstop our financial markets. I couldn’t agree more. This is not over. Congress has a responsibility to help stabilize the markets and it is my great hope we do so in the near future.
09.17.2008	U.S. Representative Michael Burgess (R-Texas) today issued the following statement after voting against the Democrat-majority’s “all symbolic, no substance” energy legislation. Right now in places like Galveston and Houston, gas lines and shortages are leaving Texans high and dry. While people there are hurting, here in Washington the Democrat-controlled Congress is doing nothing about it. Instead, they’re playing partisan games with our energy supply and policy. share: f t U.S. Representative Michael Burgess (R-Texas) today issued the following statement after voting against the Democrat-majority’s “all symbolic, no substance” energy legislation: Right now in places like Galveston and Houston, gas lines and shortages are leaving Texans high and dry. While people there are hurting, here in Washington the Democrat-controlled Congress is doing nothing about it. Instead, they’re playing partisan games with our energy supply and policy. Playing politics with America’s energy is analogous to playing Russian Roulette with our economy. That’s exactly what happened on the House floor today with a purely partisan piece of energy legislation. It’s astounding the majority continues to bet against America’s consumers, commuters, and small businesses with gimmick bills that do nothing to ease our energy woes. At the beginning of August, Republicans—including myself—refused to leave the darkened House Chamber until the majority party allowed a vote on comprehensive energy policy, including an increase in American-made energy. After five straight weeks of mounting pressure from the American people and the American press, Democrats finally relented. Today, in order to say they’ve held a vote, the Democrat leadership brings a bogus energy bill to the House floor. They then criticized Republicans who voted against it. There are no new refineries included in the bill, no nuclear energy, no clean coal, no energy exploration in arctic Alaska. There also is no exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf. This is another case of fuzzy federal government math—235 House Democrats vs. three quarters of the American people. Once again, the odds are that Democrats win and real people lose.
09.17.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) announced today that two bi-partisan bills he helped write to improve health care passed out of committee and now head to the House floor. Votes are expected by the full House of Representatives in the next few weeks. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) announced today that two bi-partisan bills he helped write to improve health care passed out of committee and now head to the House floor. Votes are expected by the full House of Representatives in the next few weeks. The first bill, the Physician Workforce and Graduate Medical Education Enhancement Act (H.R. 2583), provides federal dollars to help small hospitals create residency training programs for certain high-need medical specialties in rural or growing areas. Rep. Burgess sponsored the bill with Democrat Jim Matheson of Utah. “While the demand for health care is increasing, the supply of doctors is not. This bill targets the growing gap by investing in our physician workforce today with the goal of training the next generation of doctors for tomorrow,” said Rep. Michael C. Burgess, a physician who practiced for nearly 25 years in Texas before coming to Congress. The second bill, the Health Insurance Source of Injury Clarification Act (H.R. 6908), will require health plans to notify individuals of any exclusions or limitations on their health benefits at the point of sale. This proposal would make a technical correction to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which provides rights and protections for participants and beneficiaries in group health plans. The original point of HIPAA protections was to make health plans more accountable to the people they cover. However, for more than 10 years, the lack of clarity about what is covered and what is not impacted millions of Americans, especially those that participate in higher-risk recreational activities. Burgess sponsored this bill with Democrat Bart Stupak of Michigan. “Congress is charged with making laws to protect people and when they have the opposite effect, we also have a responsibility to work together to fix them. The time has come to fix this loophole in the HIPAA law and this bi-partisan bill does just that,” commented Burgess. This legislation is supported by the American Motorcyclist Association, American Council of Snowmobile Association, American Horse Council, American Motorcyclist Association, American Recreation Coalition, American Trails, Americans for Responsible Recreational Access, Blue Ribbon Coalition, International Mountain Bicycling Association, Motorcycle Industry Council, Motorcycle Riders Foundation, National Ski Areas Association, Specialty Vehicle Industry Council, Sporting Goods Manufacturing Association, the Washington Road Riders Association, and many others.
09.16.2008	As September is National Preparedness Month, the American Red Cross has created the attached toolkit to help you learn how to become better prepared. The Red Cross encourages you to review the materials in this important initiative. From hurricanes to a heart attack, the American Red Cross offers a wealth of information on our “Be Red Cross Ready” campaign. share: f t As September is National Preparedness Month, the American Red Cross has created a toolkit to help you learn how to become better prepared. The Red Cross encourages you to review the materials in this important initiative. From hurricanes to a heart attack, the American Red Cross offers a wealth of information in its “Be Red Cross Ready” campaign. We encourage you to check out the following Red Cross Ready Toolkit resources: Preparing for a Disaster Brochure (PDF) Be Red Cross Ready Brochure (PDF) Red Cross Preparedness Website
09.02.2008	Several North Texas communities are helping provide shelter for people evacuated from the Gulf Coast. Many people have asked how they can help as well. Here is some volunteer and donation information compiled by Denton County Officials. share: f t The United Way of Denton County is working with the American Red Cross and Camp Copass to provide for any shelter needs. The United Way of Denton County is accepting cash and check donations to their Disaster Relief Fund. These donations will be used to support local agencies identified as providing services for the evacuees. Cash or check donations will be accepted at the following locations: United Way of Denton County 625 Dallas Drive, Suite 525 Denton, TX 76205 Information & Referral 940-566-2688 First State Bank 400 West Oak Street Denton, TX First State Bank 1400 N. Corinth Street Ste 101 Corinth, TX The First State Bank Corinth & Denton Main Number is 940-349-5444. The United Way of Denton County will accept cash, check, and credit card donations, at their office, 625 Dallas Drive, Suite 525. Visa and Mastercard donations can also be accepted in person or on the phone at 940-566-2688. More information can be found at www.unitedwaydenton.org. Beginning Tuesday, September 2, The United Way of Denton County has also opened a collection site where the public can donate specific items to address the needs of Gustav evacuees. The warehouse is located at: 4801 W. University, Denton, TX (Past the Selwyn School and next door to CBS Mechanical) Hours of operation: 10:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Only the following items will be accepted at this time: • Diapers (all sizes) • baby wipes • new children’s clothing (sizes 2T, 3T, and 4T) • pop up pack and play pens • bottled water • juice box drinks • trac phones • phone cards • bags of ice (must be delivered to 600 Avenue D at the UNT Coliseum) Volunteers are needed to work in the warehouse to process donations and in the United Way office to answer phones for information and referral. Please contact the United Way office at 940-566-2688 or email community@unitedwaydenton.org to register as a LIVE UNITED volunteer. Please be prepared to provide the following information to register: name, address, phone number, t-shirt size, availability, and driver’s license or student ID number. We advise all volunteers to wear sneakers (no flip flops) and to dress light. Denton County has set-up a Help Line to provide information to hurricane self evacuees that have located themselves to our county. These self evacuees in Denton County can contact the Help Line to obtain information about local hotels, motels, banks, food banks, stores, and other information. The Help Line number is 940-349-4270. The hours of operation for the Help Line are as follows:  Tuesday, Sept. 2, 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Wednesday, Sept. 3, 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Thursday, Sept. 4, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. ### U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration Economic Adjustment Program Mission and Authority The U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration’s (DOC/EDA) mission is to lead the federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy. DOC/EDA has a long history of supporting the economic recovery of areas impacted by sudden and severe economic dislocations such as the economic impacts of natural disasters, the closure of military installations, changing trade patterns, and the depletion of natural resources. DOC/EDA’s Economic Adjustment Program assists state and local interests to design and implement strategies to adjust or bring about change to an economy where there is threat of serious structural damage to the underlying economic base. For more information, please call Patty Sheetz, EDA’s Director of Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs, at 202-482-2900. Disaster Response DOC/EDA’s principal instrument for addressing catastrophic natural disasters and the accompanying economic dislocation is its Economic Adjustment Program. This program utilizes a flexible and comprehensive set of tools to help impacted areas achieve long-term economic recovery. Two predominant types of investment activity are supported: Strategic economic recovery, technical assistance, and capacity building investments – augment the institutional capacity of local governments by helping communities to organize and implement a planning process to assess impacts and develop a recovery strategy; and, Implementation investments – supply funds for new construction and/or post-disaster improvements to commercial and industrial facilities and publicly-owned infrastructure to support job retention and creation, private investment, and long-term economic recovery. DOC/EDA supports locally-directed mitigation efforts flowing from a strategic recovery planning process designed to support near-term renewal and to safeguard jobs and investment from future disasters. DOC/EDA recognizes the primacy of affected State, local, and tribal governments and the private sector in defining and addressing risk reduction and long-term community recovery priorities. The Bureau’s disaster recovery assistance focuses on long-term recovery efforts that are forward looking and market-based focusing on permanent restoration of infrastructure and the local economy. DOC/EDA Assistance for Prior Disasters DOC/EDA’s post-disaster long-term economic recovery program funding relies on normal program appropriations and emergency supplemental appropriations for specific disasters. Examples of past supplemental appropriations include the following: FY Disaster Assistance Provided 1993/94 Midwest Floods 200 M 1994 Northridge Earthquake 91 M 1994 Tropical Storm Alverto 50 M 1996 1996 Floods 17 M 1997 Hurricanes Fran and Hortense 25 M 1997 Upper Midwest Floods 50 M 1999 Alaska Fisheries 15 M 2000 Hurricane Floyd 55 M 2001 Alaska Fisheries/Norton Sound 10 M Assistance with Gulf Coast Recovery When responding to the needs of communities with sudden and severe economic distress, EDA has focused on assisting state and local interests in designing and implementing strategies to adjust and rebuild the economic infrastructure. EDA stresses that planning and implementation should take place and be driven at the local level where needs are best analyzed and met. For example, in September 2005 immediately following Hurricane Katrina, EDA committed $4 million each to the Mississippi and Louisiana State Economic Development offices, thereby allowing those offices to help implement capacity-rebuilding programs where most needed. While EDA did not receive any supplemental appropriations to respond Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the Bureau has invested over $34 million in 57 investments in Gulf Coast recovery activities from September 2005 to date. Interagency Coordination and Collaboration DOC/EDA can play a significant role in helping to fill program “gaps” by packaging assistance with other federal partners. DOC/EDA works closely with other federal agencies, as well as state and local governments to provide assistance that complements and does not duplicate other programs. Since 1992, DOC/EDA has coordinated with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in providing federal assistance to support long-term economic recovery for communities impacted by disasters. Under the National Response Plan, DOC/EDA serves as a primary agency (with SBA, HUD and USDA) to implement operational program delivery under Emergency Support Function (ESF) #14, Recovery and Long-term Recovery. In assisting with past disaster response activities, DOC/EDA has, through a reimbursable Mission Assignment from FEMA, provided Bureau professional staff to participate in on-site FEMA-led Recovery Teams to supply planning and technical assistance to the most impacted communities in developing strategic long-term recovery plans. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Authorized by the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. §3121), as amended
08.19.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville), brought together top national and state transportation officials today to highlight the urgent need to improve and expand the existing Lake Lewisville bridge on Interstate 35. Bridge traffic is frequently backed up for miles, making the crossing one of the worst congestion hot spots in North Texas. The reconstruction project is still moving through the lengthy planning process. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville), brought together top national and state transportation officials today to highlight the urgent need to improve and expand the existing Lake Lewisville bridge on Interstate 35. Bridge traffic is frequently backed up for miles, making the crossing one of the worst congestion hot spots in North Texas. The reconstruction project is still moving through the lengthy planning process. “The current Lake Lewisville Bridge is supposed to be a major connection – too often it’s a source of major irritation. This can and must change, and it needs to do so sooner rather than later,” said Rep. Burgess. Denton County is one of the fastest growing counties in Texas. Today, the county has nearly 600,000 residents and is projected to have more than one million by the year 2030. The rapid growth has quickly surpassed the capacity of I-35E to handle the traffic demand. During morning and evening rush hours the congestion is heavy. The highway also experiences high traffic counts through out the day. The reconstruction of the Lake Lewisville Bridge will offer drivers eight main lanes, four concurrent managed lanes (two lanes in each direction), and two to three frontage roads on each side. These improvements may be helped along by changes to transportation policy as part if the upcoming Highway bill, which Congress will begin crafting in a few months. “If adding lanes on the bridge and building a frontage road is as good a project as local sponsors say, it will be easier to fund under our proposal than under the current, broken federal system. Under our new approach, Dallas-Fort Worth will have more flexibility to put their transportation dollars toward projects that benefit commuters and communities. Congressman Burgess and I agree that projects that improve commutes, give taxpayers a good deal and cut congestion should get funding,” the Deputy Secretary said. State officials welcome the focus on fighting traffic. TXDOT Deputy Executive Director Steve Simmons commented, “We are pleased to have Congressman Burgess and Deputy Secretary Barrett here today to highlight a key congestion relief project we are working on in the DFW area. As they have shown by their recent actions, both Congressman Burgess and the Secretary are keenly aware of the need for giving states and regions flexibility in making key transportation decisions that directly impact the citizens they serve.” In addition to discussing the bridge reconstruction project, the officials also discussed changing transportation policy to move projects forward faster and more affordably. On average, it takes 13 years to design and complete a road. Costs often grow significantly during that time. “This interstate corridor has been and will continue to be a main artery for this region's growth and quality of life. Keeping it healthy and moving must be a priority, and if that means fast tracking or innovative financing, that's exactly what we need to do,” commented Burgess. A recent collision on I-35E during the morning commute effectively shutdown the interstate for over four hours. This scenario is not uncommon and highlights the need for immediate improvements to the I-35E corridor. # # #
08.07.2008	U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today made the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency denied the state of Texas’ request to reduce the Renewable Fuel Standard requirement... share: f t WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today made the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency denied the state of Texas’ request to reduce the Renewable Fuel Standard requirement: Government programs that unexpectedly hurt the poor, raise grocery bills, and artificially increase feed prices should be waived, period. That’s what the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) does and that’s why it should be suspended in the short-term and revisited in the long-term. Texas is experiencing real hardship due to this restrictive and unnecessary RFS policy and has exercised its Congressionally-mandated, Presidentially-authorized right to object. It’s disheartening that the Environmental Protection Agency is unwilling or unable to waive this mandate and offer some measure of relief to American families and businesses in this economic environment.
07.31.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., yesterday voted to support the most sweeping product safety legislation since the inception of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) in 1972. Burgess helped craft the original House bill and the version ratified yesterday contains two key provisions included at his urging. The bill now goes to the President for his signature. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., yesterday voted to support the most sweeping product safety legislation since the inception of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) in 1972. Burgess helped craft the original House bill and the version ratified yesterday contains two key provisions included at his urging. The bill now goes to the President for his signature. “As a physician, parent, and policy maker, I understand we need to put politics aside to protect our children. We did that with this consumer product safety legislation and I’m proud to have played a role in shaping it,” said Rep. Burgess. The bipartisan bill boosts CPSC funding and personnel, bans lead in children's products, requires third-party product testing, and increases penalties for those who break the law. It also includes the Burgess amendments to increase awareness of recalled products among second-hand retailers and to require the CPSC to conduct a study, due nine months after the enactment, on its ability to prevent unsafe products from entering the country. With imports skyrocketing, concerns about prohibiting dangerous and defective products from coming in the country are growing. Additional measures may be needed to address the influx. “Americans can refuse packages that come to their homes or business. The federal government should be able to do the same with tainted, foreign goods,” continued Burgess. The 424-1 vote in the House sends the measure to the Senate, which could approve it this week. President George W. Bush is expected to sign it.
07.31.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today offered an amendment that provides $400 million in federal money to build refineries on military bases as part of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs FY09 Appropriations bill. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today offered an amendment that provides $400 million in federal money to build refineries on military bases as part of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs FY09 Appropriations bill. “If we want access to American energy, we need to drill domestically and refine domestically too. We can start by providing our Nation’s largest energy consumer – the military – with the money and infrastructure to do just that,” said Rep. Burgess. In 2007, with operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, the United States Armed Services consumed 16 gallons of fuel per soldier every day, or, about $3 million worth of fuel a day. All military planes, vehicles, and heavy equipment use jet petroleum to avoid carrying different fuel grades or accidentally putting the wrong kind of fuel in equipment. This specialized fuel is produced in the same refineries that produce fuel for commercial sale, many of which are located in foreign countries because domestic refinery infrastructure is not adequate to meet supply demands. Four out of five of the top suppliers of military fuel are foreign companies. Additionally, global refineries are currently operating at tight capacity, which limits output and drives up production costs. The problem is particularly acute in America, where domestic refining capacity has declined as a result of the industry operating with lower inventories of both crude oil and gasoline, as well as the lack of new or modified facilities. These constraints mean a greater proportion of gasoline demand has to be met with imported products. Because refining makes up between 10 and 20 percent of the cost of gasoline and other fuels, this capacity shortage is contributing to rising fuel prices. “We haven’t built a new refinery since the 1970’s, and lawsuits and red tape have made it prohibitively expensive to expand or enhance existing refineries. The result is America is importing millions of barrels of fully-refined gasoline from abroad. This causes higher prices for consumers, costs jobs, makes us vulnerable to man-made and natural disasters – and it must change,” continued the Congressman. Experts maintain that building new oil refineries or expanding existing ones is among the most affordable, effective and reliable ways to increase supplies of gasoline and diesel fuels and to lower prices. The Burgess amendment provides $400 million to build four new refineries to produce the specialized types and grades of fuel used by each branch of the Armed Services for their equipment. The refineries will be located on existing or former bases under the control of the Department of Defense. These military-specific refineries could produce and protect specialized military fuels from capacity limitations that squeeze supply and increase prices. They would free up commercial refining capacity so the country is not forced to outsource a significant portion of refining needs to foreign countries. They would also help ensure supply chain disruptions, whether man-made or natural disasters like hurricanes, do not stop the flow of fuel to the troops. “Investing in critical infrastructure and protecting the Nation are some of the federal government’s top responsibilities. This amendment combines these critical roles for the public good,” Burgess said. Unfortunately, the amendment was brought down by an arcane procedural matter raised by the democratic majority. However, Congressman Burgess will continue to push HR 6125, which will help accomplish the goals of this amendment.
07.30.2008	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville) issues the following statement following his "no" vote on H.R. 1108: I didn’t support the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act when it came through committee and I didn’t support it today. This bill will do nothing to actually reduce the risk of smoking-related illness. The FDA should have the responsibility of regulating products that are either nutritive or therapeutic—tobacco is neither. The FDA’s scarce resources should be used to actually help improve our nation’s health and not maintain the status quo. share: f t Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville) issues the following statement following his "no" vote on H.R. 1108: I didn’t support the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act when it came through committee and I didn’t support it today. This bill will do nothing to actually reduce the risk of smoking-related illness. The FDA should have the responsibility of regulating products that are either nutritive or therapeutic—tobacco is neither. The FDA’s scarce resources should be used to actually help improve our nation’s health and not maintain the status quo. Additionally, with the recent tomato and jalapeno recalls, it's clear they already have their hands full with their existing responsibilities. Is it really wise to pile on even more? It is a little known fact that a major domestic cigarette company worked behind closed doors with senior Democrats to bring this bill to the floor today. If the supporters of this bill were serious about reducing smoking related illnesses and deaths, then an amendment I offered to give the Secretary the authority to prohibit the sale of certain tobacco products or require any tobacco products sold in this country to contain NO nicotine. The defeat of my amendments by the majority just goes to show that this bill was nothing more than a cynical political exercise. The House of Representatives missed a real opportunity to protect the health of our country.
07.23.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today voted against the housing bailout package saying: I’ve read the Constitution. No where does it say that the federal government has a responsibility to reward speculators or people who make irresponsible spending decisions. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today voted against the housing bailout package saying: I’ve read the Constitution. No where does it say that the federal government has a responsibility to reward speculators or people who make irresponsible spending decisions. During a time of economic uncertainty and rising deficits, we should be controlling expenditures not finding new ways to spend money we don’t even have. That’s exactly what this bailout bill does.
07.23.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today stood with the House GOP conference at the foot of the U.S. Capitol to support increased production of American energy and to reject calls for more regulation and more taxes. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today stood with the House GOP conference at the foot of the U.S. Capitol to support increased production of American energy and to reject calls for more regulation and more taxes. His comments were: America needs affordable, reliable, and accessible domestic sources of energy. The Republican plan that was presented today puts all of the options on the table. Rising energy prices have hobbled our economy and put significant pressure on our family budget. This plan recognizes the need for immediate action. It gives the professional engineers, corporations, research institutions, and the federal government the tools they need to bring some relief. The Members at the press conference today are answering the call of the consumer with tangible and realistic energy policy. We understand that in a global market with a slowing economy, America needs to contribute as a global supplier and as a competitor. Chasing scapegoats or punishing corporate success is not going to increase American energy supply or decrease fuel prices a single penny. We need results-oriented legislation, and that is what this coalition of Members put forward today.
07.22.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville) today joined other congressional Republicans in urging House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to schedule a vote to increase American supplies of energy. Recent polls indicate Americans are feeling the strain of rising gas prices. In fact, nearly two-thirds of Americans (62 percent) say they expect — within the next six months — to wait in long gas lines to fill up their cars; moreover, almost half (48 percent) claim to have changed their summer travel plans because of prices at the pump. Opinion research also says that large majorities of Americans favor expanding drilling for oil in offshore and wilderness areas considered to be off-limits. share: f t Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville) today joined other congressional Republicans in urging House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to schedule a vote to increase American supplies of energy. Recent polls indicate Americans are feeling the strain of rising gas prices. In fact, nearly two-thirds of Americans (62 percent) say they expect — within the next six months — to wait in long gas lines to fill up their cars; moreover, almost half (48 percent) claim to have changed their summer travel plans because of prices at the pump. Opinion research also says that large majorities of Americans favor expanding drilling for oil in offshore and wilderness areas considered to be off-limits. To view a copy of the letter, click here.
07.08.2008	A year has passed since Congress has had a serious debate regarding immigration policy, yet this issue remains a major concern for many Americans. With the recent media attention paid to Operation Streamline, an initiative of U.S. Customs and Border Patrol, new questions arise on what more can be done to improve immigration enforcement. Congressman Michael Burgess, Vice Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee, wants to kickstart the conversation by exploring how programs like Operation Streamline help or hurt existing immigration enforcement efforts. Join Congressman Burgess, Congressman Lamar Smith, and other representatives of law enforcement and local governments for a panel discussion titled “Immigration Enforcement: In the absence of a coherent immigration policy, what are we to do?” WHAT: House Republican Policy Committee Policy Prescriptions on Immigration Enforcement WHO: Congressman Michael Burgess, Vice Chairman – House Republican Policy Committee; T.J. Bonner, President - National Border Patrol Council; Corey Stewart, Chairman - Prince William County, Virginia Board of Supervisors; Mark Krikorian, Executive Director - Center for Immigration Studies; George Fishman, Minority Chief Counsel - House Judiciary Committee WHEN: Tuesday, July 8th, Noon WHERE: Members Room, Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress Lunch will be provided. # # #
07.03.2008	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations from the community for the 2008 Congressional Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, has been created to honor the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and to preserve their stories for future generations of Americans. To nominate a veteran for the Congressional Veteran Commendation a nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, must be submitted to Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville office by September 8, 2008. Veterans who are nominated must currently reside in the 26th District of Texas and have served the nation with honor consistent with the finest traditions of military service. An in-depth interview will be conducted with comendees and that interview will be forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection. For more information regarding the project, visit http://www.loc.gov/vets/. The individuals selected to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation will be publicly recognized on Veteran’s Day at the annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association. To obtain additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the 26th District of Texas, please contact District Administrator Robin Vaughan at (972) 434-9700 or visit Congressman Burgess’ Congressional Veteran Commendation website at /Services/cvc.htm. # # #
06.28.2008	Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. today joined experts to get money-saving tips, ideas, and advice on how to manage energy costs by managing energy use. Several local companies and retailers were on hand to display the latest in energy-efficient appliances, engines, and equipment. Today's energy prices are leaving many wallets running on empty. Drivers are shopping around for deals. Homeowners are searching for ways to control monthly costs. The good news it that the key to savings might be right under the hood or right inside your home. “North Texans are feeling the pain of rising energy prices, and experts predict the costs will only continue to climb,” said Congressman Burgess. “There are things that individuals can do, though, to relieve some of the pain. That’s why we are here today.” The Energy Expo featured alternative energy vehicles, over fifteen booths from area companies and retailers, and two panels with experts speaking on steps North Texans can take to conserve energy and lower costs. The first panel discussion focused on ways to address transportation energy and included experts from area organizations. The second panel included representatives from local industries involved in education consumers on ways they can reduced home energy costs. “I am very pleased that Congressman Burgess has this symposium as a means of drawing attention to the significant energy challenges that we face and ways we can work to address those challenges with respect to energy efficiency in buildings,” said Dan Fette, Chairman of Green Built North Texas, an initiative of the Home Builders Association of Greater Dallas. Congressman Burgess pointed out that a gallon of gas during last year’s energy expo cost about a dollar less than North Texans are paying now, and home energy costs have steadily risen as well, stressing the importance for individuals to start taking matters into their own hands to lower costs. “Our energy problems are complex and chronic, but we all have a personal responsibility to do our part to improve the environment and help curb the rising energy prices,” continued Congressman Burgess. # # #
06.17.2008	With no relief in sight for the rapidly rising price of groceries, gas and other necessities, several Members of Congress from North Texas met with a local company to hear how families and businesses are being impacted. Reps. Joe Barton, Michael Burgess, Kay Granger and Pete Sessions toured a Tom Thumb grocery store, met with company leaders and spoke with customers. It was another chance for the Representatives to hear the real impact the energy mess is having on all aspects of people’s lives. share: f t With no relief in sight for the rapidly rising price of groceries, gas and other necessities, several Members of Congress from North Texas met with a local company to hear how families and businesses are being impacted. Reps. Joe Barton, Michael Burgess, Kay Granger and Pete Sessions toured a Tom Thumb grocery store, met with company leaders and spoke with customers. It was another chance for the Representatives to hear the real impact the energy mess is having on all aspects of people’s lives. The group then spoke to the media highlighting the Republican energy plans to bring costs under control by increasing the supply of American energy, improving energy efficiency, and encouraging investment in alternative and renewable energy technologies. After touring the store, Congressman Barton (R-Arlington) said, “Republicans introduced a package of bills recently that would lower prices by increasing the production of American-made energy in an environmentally-safe way. This includes the exploration of next generation oil, natural gas, and coal and the production of advanced alternative fuels like cellulosic and clean coal-to-liquids. In fact ground breaking research in this field is being conducted right now at UTA. This plan does more than just lower gasoline prices – it lowers the price for all energy from the electricity you use to cool you home to the natural gas you use to cook.” Congresswoman Kay Granger pointed out that the pain extends past the gas pump and into the grocery aisle. "Americans are asking for help with the high price of gasoline, the rising cost of food, and the inescapable increase in cost-of-living. However, families are not the only one's hurt by the rising energy prices. Communities and the tourism industry are particularly impacted by rising energy cost, small businesses with employees who can't work from home and other businesses that are unable to raise their prices to offset additional energy cost are feeling the affect as their profits shrink leaving them vulnerable to potentially unavoidable financial disasters.” Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville) acknowledged the anger being felt by North Texas consumers and then laid out a simple road map to lower gas prices. "Talk to Texans at their local grocery store or gas station like this one and they’ll tell you they’re honking mad about prices and hostile nations having the upper hand because they produce oil. We can ease the pain at the pump and lessen our dependence foreign oil by taking some reasonable and realistic steps that I call relaxing the three R’s: re-examining biofuel mandates; rolling back the diesel tax, and, building refineries," said Rep. Burgess. Congressman Sessions (R-Dallas) also addressed the nation’s unnecessary dependence on foreign oil. “From rising food costs to soaring gas prices, North Texans are burdened with cost of living increases, limiting their ability to make ends meet and invest for the future. For current gas price relief and long-term energy independence, Congress must increase supply by opening domestic resources to energy production and decrease demand by prioritizing energy efficiency and alternative, renewable energy development. The prosperity of our nation and its economy depends on it.” Each of the Representatives also applauded the Tom Thumb and other retailers for their efforts to lower shoppers’ bills by offering discounts when possible. The Members of Congress said they would take the lessons learned during the store tour and share them with their colleagues in Washington as they continue to fight for energy policy reform.
06.04.2008	Congressman Michael Burgess recently honored the students from the 26th District of Texas who have accepted appointments to the United States Service Academies. Appointees were presented a Special Certificate of Congressional Recognition and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their appointment. share: f t Congressman Michael Burgess recently honored the students from the 26th District of Texas who have accepted appointments to the United States Service Academies. Appointees were presented a Special Certificate of Congressional Recognition and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their appointment. Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are rigorously evaluated on a variety of criteria including academic performance, leadership qualifications and physical preparedness. Appointments to an academy must be preceded by a nomination from a Member of Congress, Academy Superintendent, the Vice President or a military connected nomination. “This year’s academy appointees are fine young men and women who will proudly serve our country and uphold the integrity of our country’s armed services,” said Congressman Burgess. “I am proud to assist them in continuing the American tradition of public service.” This summer the young men and women will be entering the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY, and the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Special guests in attendance were Ensigns Christopher Montague of Southlake and Josh Meek of Flower Mound, who graduated last Friday from the U.S. Naval Academy. They spoke candidly about the challenges and rewards facing the new academy appointees in their years ahead. The students attending each academy are: U.S. Military Academy: James Oswald, Lewisville Adam Wilde, Denton U.S. Naval Academy: Ford Yeager, Lewisville Andrew Weatherholt, North Richland Hills U.S. Merchant Marine Academy: Ryan Ballard, Lewisville Billy-Bruce Carroll, Argyle Keegan Farley, Ponder Zack Hadel, Gainesville Travis Hardy, Trophy Club U.S. Air Force Academy: Robert Apfel, Highland Village Amanda Ellis, Keller Garrett Getschow, Flower Mound Martin Madsen, Denton Sam McKinnon, Lantana Josh Moore, Denton Darrin Nottingham, Frisco Mia Phillips, Keller Brandon Roberts, Denton Wesley Stowe, The Colony "I was pleased to nominate incredible young men and women who will be the future leaders of our country,” continued Congressman Burgess. “I am even more delighted and grateful that these future leaders have accepted this challenge to serve their country." # # # Attached Photo: Pictured back row (l-r): Ensign Christopher Montague, Josh Moore, Wesley Stowe, Zach Hadel, Adam Wilde, Robert Apfel, Garrett Getschow, Sam McKinnon, Ensign Josh Meek Pictured front row (l-r): Ford Yeager, Travis Hardy, Congressman Michael Burgess, James Oswald, Keegan Farley
06.03.2008	Today Representative Michael Burgess (R-Lewisville) was joined by community leaders and representatives from the TV industry for a news conference highlighting next year’s Digital TV transition. On February 17, 2009, television broadcasters in the U.S. will stop sending analog signals and switch to sending signals only in digital format. Many Americans are unaware of this change, and even those who may know aren’t sure what they need to do in preparation. Rep. Burgess today stressed the importance of the transition from analog to digital signal because not only will digital TV offer clearer pictures and better sound quality, but the switch will also provide more analog space for emergency responder communication. “In addition to consumer benefits, there are community benefits,” said Rep. Burgess. “The switch to digital also frees up airwaves to assist emergency first-responders.” “Better communications among emergency response personnel like police, firefighters, and EMS technicians makes for safer and stronger communities,” continued Rep. Burgess. “And in a state like Texas where the need for emergency preparedness is great because of severe weather and significant growth, communication is key.” When this switchover occurs, an analog TV set will no longer be able to receive over-the-air broadcast signals without a digital converter box. To assist American consumers with this change, Congress created a fund to help offset the cost of purchasing converter boxes. Consumers can request a coupon worth $40 to be used toward the purchase of a converter box. Each household can receive up to two coupons. The coupon can be used at a wide variety of consumer electronics retailers. The event was held at a Wal Mart Supercenter in North Richland Hills. Wal Mart is one of several retailers in the Dallas/Fort Worth area where North Texans can purchase a converter box. This digital TV transition will affect over 8 million Texas households, and so far over 42,000 coupons have been requested by residents of Texas’ 26th district. “Congress made the switch. We’re also making help available to ease the transition,” said Rep. Burgess. To learn more about the Digital TV transition and download a coupon application, visit Rep. Burgess’ congressional website at /Services/DTV.htm. # # #
05.14.2008	U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) today issued the following statement about his opposition to the Farm Bill, which passed the House of Representatives by a margin of 318 to 106: “A fiscally-responsible farm program would support our farmers and meet America’s food needs at the same time. This Farm Bill did not meet these requirements. It fails to reduce government subsidies to farmers and it does not remedy the flawed agricultural policies that are relics of the Depression era. It also contains hundreds of millions of dollars in spending for questionable pet projects slipped into the bill outside of the traditional legislative process. This Farm Bill will actually increase the size and scope of government and will cost American taxpayers more than $650 billion over the next 10 years. That is a 44 percent increase in spending. I can not, in good conscience, help write a huge federal subsidy check at a time when Americans are struggling to write checks to cover their own family’s expenses. Our citizens and our farmers deserve better laws that are no more than reckless spending.” # # #
05.05.2008	MEDIA ALERT Domestic and global food prices have dramatically risen in the past few years, and many experts place partial blame on the U.S. dependency on corn-based ethanol fuel. Today’s roundtable discussion, moderated by Rep. Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Vice Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee, will focus on the unintentional effects certain forms of alternative energy may have on the world’s food supply. WHO: Rep. Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Vice Chairman Bob Davis, The Wall Street Journal – International Economics Reporter, Food Inflation, Riots Spark Worries for World Leaders” Jon Doggett, National Corn Grower’s Association – Vice President of Public Policy Scott Faber, Grocery Manufacturers Association – Vice President for Federal Affairs Bob Young, American Farm Bureau – Chief Economist Candy Hill, Catholic Charities USA – Sr. Vice President for Social Policy and Government Affairs WHAT: National and industry experts unite to discuss the growing fear that a global hunger crisis is on the brink, and U.S. policy may be to blame. WHEN: TODAY - Monday, May 5, 2008 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Library of Congress, Jefferson Building, Members Room RSVP: hrpc@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-6168 Note: Refreshments will be provided. # # #
05.02.2008	Today, U.S. Representative Michael Burgess (TX-26) announced the winner of the sixth annual 26th Congressional District art competition, An Artistic Discovery. Megan Minns, a senior at Liberty Christian School in Argyle, Texas, won first prize with her colored pencil drawing entitled Fall Leaves. “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic talents of our local high school students and display them to the rest of the country,” Rep. Burgess said. “Megan is an extremely talented young woman with a tremendous gift. Her work makes the 26th District proud,” continued Rep. Burgess. All the participating student artists were honored by Rep. Burgess at a recent reception held in the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton. The event was hosted by the art competition’s co-sponsor, The Greater Denton Arts Council, and was judged by artist and educator Jo Williams. The art competition was open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing in or attending schools in the district. Megan’s work will be displayed in the United States Capitol complex for the coming year. A ribbon-cutting ceremony opening the national 2008 An Artistic Discovery exhibition and honoring the winning artists from congressional districts all over the country will take place in Washington, D.C. on June 25, 2008. Other winners include: 2nd Place - Adilene Ruiz of Highland Village, representing Marcus High School; Adilene’s artwork will be displayed in Congressman Burgess’ Lewisville district office for the next year. 3rd Place - Paige Donahoo of North Richland Hills, representing Richland High School; Paige’s artwork will hang in Rep. Burgess’ Fort Worth district office. Texas Choice - Morgan Everhart of Denton, representing Guyer High School; the “Texas Choice” winner is selected by popular vote of the reception attendees. “Congratulations to Adilene, Paige, Morgan, and all of those who entered artwork for the competition,” said Rep. Burgess. “I am proud of the creative achievements of the students in Texas’ 26th District.” Since the competition was first launched in 1982, nearly 5,000 local contests have been conducted that have involved more than 650,000 high school students. # # #
05.01.2008	MEDIA ALERT More than 23 million Americans will ride a motorcycle this year. These riders now account for one out of every 10 U.S. road fatalities each year and the numbers keep rising. With the warmer weather here and more motorcyclists taking to the road than ever before, May is the perfect time for national leaders to encourage responsible riding and to encourage all drivers to safely share the road. Event will include a motorcycle riding simulator and several late model bikes. WHO: U.S. Secretary of Transportation Mary E. Peters Rep. Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ) Tim Buche, President, Motorcycle Industry Council Rob Dingman, President, American Motorcyclist Association WHAT: National leaders join together to focus attention on motorcycle safety, including a news conference on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol. WHEN: TODAY - Thursday, May 1, 2008 11:30-2 p.m. Motorcycle Safety & Training Displays Open to the Public 12 p.m. News Conference WHERE: Garfield Circle on the south side of the Capitol. Adjacent to the Capitol Reflection Pool at the intersection of Maryland Avenue and First Street. ### The Congressional Motorcycle Safety Caucus is a bipartisan group of Members of Congress committed to improving and advancing the safety of motorcyclists.
05.01.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today joined with U.S. Transportation Secretary Mary Peters, the U.S. Capitol Police, and leaders from the motorcycle industry to kick-off Motorcycle Safety Awareness Month. They came together to encourage responsible riding and encourage all drivers to safely share the road. The event included a motorcycle riding simulator, several late model bikes, and the latest protective gear for riding. With gas prices on the rise and better weather arriving, more Americans will start using their motorcycles for transportation. As ridership increases, so does the risk for everyone traveling on the roads. Texas has 852,781 licensed motorcyclists. Last year in the Lone Star state preliminary numbers reveal more than 9,100 motorcycle crashes accounted for more than 400 deaths. “As a doctor, I’ve been in plenty of emergency rooms and trauma centers. Take it from me: you don’t want to be involved in a crash of any kind, especially one involving a motorcycle,” said Rep. Burgess. “An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. For riders, that means ride responsibly. For everyone else on the road, stay alert and don’t let dangerous distractions divert your attention from the road,” he continued. More than 23 million Americans will ride a motorcycle this year. These riders now account for 11 percent of U.S. road fatalities each year and the numbers keep rising. Experts, including the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the Motorcycle Industry Association, believe training and protective gear are critically important to safe riding. “As a biker myself, I know motorcycle safety begins and ends with riders taking personal responsibility. That means proper training, proper gear, and a DOT-certified helmet every time you ride,” Secretary Peters said. Preventing accidents is critical to ensuring safer roads. Prompt medical attention can also mitigate injuries and save lives. Currently, there are instances where insurance companies deny certain claims for motorcycle crashes. “When accidents do happen, people need to receive the proper medical care to treat their injuries. That’s why I have introduced a bipartisan bill to fix a loophole in the HIPAA law that allows insurers to deny payment for injuries sustained while engaged in recreational activities like motorcycling,” commented Rep. Burgess. The motorcycle industry has several public education and awareness programs for car drivers and other motorists. Many of these organizations share public concerns about safe riding. “I’m happy to see that federal leaders are committed to motorcycle safety and I look forward to continuing to work with them to do our part to make 2008, and each year moving forward, a safer year for motorcyclists,” said Motorcycle Industry Council President Tim Buche. While significant progress has occurred in reducing fatalities among passenger vehicle occupants, motorcycle fatalities have been rising steadily since 1997, and currently represent our Nation’s greatest highway traffic safety challenge. # # #
04.29.2008	Rep. Michael Burgess (Texas-26) today unveiled a completely re-vamped Congressional website. The new site will be more user-friendly and allow visitors to quickly find the information they are searching for including where the Congressman stands on issues, how to contact him, and the services available from his office. “With so many people these days using the internet as their primary method of gathering information, it is important that North Texans and other interested individuals can easily and quickly navigate my site,” said Rep. Burgess. “The new site is full of information about a wide-range of issues, and the new layout makes finding that information much easier.” New special features include: Issue Spotlight: Use these buttons to find up-to-date information about the important issues facing currently our nation. News Center: This provides front-page, immediate access to statements on pressing issues, new legislation, and other tools such as photos, video and audio clips, and floor and committee statements for press and interested individuals. Health Care Focus: As a physician who practiced medicine for over 20 years before being elected to Congress, health care is a top priority of Rep. Burgess. The Congressional website with the most information about health care will now have a weekly-updated section focusing on the most important health care issues facing America. Quick Links and Services For You: These two features provide abundant information about Congress and the services the Federal government has to offer, including links federal agencies, information about visiting Washington, D.C., and a Frequently Asked Questions section. Online Survey: Updated each week, the homepage will feature a survey visitors can take to let Rep. Burgess know their thoughts on the important issues facing our nation. These are only a few of the features the new and improved website will feature. Please visit / to view the new site. # # #
04.23.2008	Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) and Russ Carnahan (D-Missouri) yesterday introduced bi-partisan legislation to create a national registry to house information about Americans living with Multiple Sclerosis (MS.) A national registry would allow for future planning of health care needs, detect changes in health practices, assess disease burden, promote advocacy, and support a wide range of research initiatives. “As a medical doctor, I'm focused on improving access to quality health services, breaking down barriers to care, and making medicines more affordable for all Americans, including those living with chronic diseases like MS,” said Congressman Burgess. “Creating a national registry like this one will help achieve those critical goals and provide consistency and coordination in the care of those living with MS.” The MS Registry will serve as an important source of epidemiological information for researchers, healthcare providers, patients, and the broader MS community. The last national study of incidence and prevalence of MS was conducted in 1975. That lack of core knowledge inhibits MS research, programs, and services. “By creating a national registry health care providers will be able to better serve those living with MS and improve research to combat this disease,” said Congressman Russ Carnahan. “Currently valuable time and effort is being wasted because smaller databases aren’t able to communicate with one another. This is a simple and common-sense solution, but the benefits are enormous.” The move towards a national MS registry has garnered support from several health care organizations, including the National MS Society and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, which is part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “We look forward to working with our activists across the country in support of the admirable efforts of Congressmen Burgess and Carnahan,” said Joyce Nelson, President and CEO of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. “The development of the MS registry will provide researchers with important information about the incidence and prevalence of this disease and it represents a giant step in the movement to achieve a world free of MS,” Nelson continued. According to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, the absence of a MS registry makes it more difficult to track cases and restricts local, state, and federal public health agencies and their capacity to respond to concerns. # # #
04.21.2008	The 11th Annual National Ocean Sciences Bowl (NOSB®) is being held April 25-27th at Seward High School in Seward, Alaska. High School students from all over the United States will compete in the NOSB Final Competition with prizes and scholarships on the line. The NOSB is a program of the Consortium for Ocean Leadership based in Washington, D.C. In February the NOSB hosted regional competitions around the nation at twenty five different sites, where teams competed over their knowledge of our oceans. The regional champions with four or five students on each team will participate in the 2008 NOSB with a chance to take home the top prize and become this year’s national champion. The team from Sanger High School of Sanger, Texas is one of the twenty-five regional champions, winning the Dolphin Challenge. "The bright young students representing Sanger High School in the national competition epitomize the spirit of intellectual excellence I proudly represent in North Texas," said Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville). "It is students like these who give us hope for an optimistic future, and I wish them much success in their endeavors." Approximately 2,000 students from over 300 high schools participated this year. Through this educational forum, the NOSB strives to encourage and support the next generation of marine scientists, policy makers, teachers, explorers, researchers, technicians, environmental advocates and informed citizens. “The students competing in the National Ocean Sciences Bowl Finals are exceptionally brilliant and are what make this such a special and prestigious program,” said Robert B. Gagosian, President & CEO of the Consortium for Ocean Leadership. “These students are the future stewards of our oceans and we hope that they lead this nation to understand, conserve and protect our ocean resources,” continued Gagosian. For more information about the National Ocean Sciences Bowl please visit http://www.nosb.org/. # # #
04.09.2008	Today U.S. Representative Michael Burgess (R-Texas) issued the following statement regarding the testimony of General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker before the House Armed Services Committee. share: f t Today U.S. Representative Michael Burgess (R-Texas) issued the following statement regarding the testimony of General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker before the House Armed Services Committee: “Security and progress in Iraq is now more important than ever. Today’s testimony from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker clearly proves that the surge has been successful and the situation in Iraq has improved. This has made America safer. We must not forget, though, that this progress can easily be reversed. Our presence in Iraq is still required for success in the Global War on Terror. I recently spent time in the Middle East visiting Iraq and several other countries. I have seen first-hand the progress which General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker describe. Violence is down and Iraqis are no longer standing on the sidelines – politically or economically. Yesterday I met with several members of Vets for Freedom from my district. These brave Americans told me that all they want is the opportunity for victory in Iraq. Decreasing our presence in Iraq during this vital stage of the war would be crippling to our efforts. Therefore it is our duty to the American people to stay focused on the mission and remain committed to measureable progress until the war is won. As always I am impressed by the knowledge and capacity of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker, and I remain steadfast in my belief that crucial battlefield decisions should be made by those serving on the ground in Iraq, not those of us in air-conditioned offices in Washington, D.C. Today’s testimony is compelling and important, and should be the guiding force behind our national security decisions in Iraq.” # # #
04.07.2008	Lewisville, TX – The DFW Metroplex U.S. Service Academies Forum for students grades 8th through 12th who are interested in learning more about our nation’s service academies will be held this Saturday, April 12, 2008. The informational forum will begin at 8:00 a.m. in the Student Center at Tarrant County College, Northeast, and will provide interested individuals with service academy information such as requirements for admission and details about the selection process. The forum is jointly sponsored by Congressman Michael Burgess and other North Texas members of Congress, as well as representatives from all five service academies, cadets and midshipmen, and the ROTC. They will be on hand to talk with North Texas students, parents and educators about the possibilities associated with attending these premier educational institutions. “The U.S. Service Academies offer a top-notch education for those young people who want to serve our county,” said Congressman Burgess. “I encourage interested students, parents and educators to attend this event and take advantage of this excellent opportunity to learn more about what it takes to apply and attend one of our nation’s service academies.” WHO: Congressman Michael Burgess and representatives from the following offices: Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison Senator John Cornyn Congressman Sam Johnson Congressman Joe Barton Congresswoman Kay Granger Congressman Kenny Marchant Congressman Pete Sessions U.S. Naval Academy U.S. Coast Guard Academy U.S. Merchant Marine Academy U.S. Air Force Academy U.S. Military Academy Cadets and Midshipmen ROTC WHAT: DFW Metroplex U.S. Service Academies Forum WHEN: Saturday, April 12, 2008, 8:00 a.m. WHERE: Student Center, Tarrant County College, Northeast, 828 Harwood Road, Hurst, TX For more information please contact Robin Vaughan at 972/434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. # # #
03.27.2008	During the 109th session of Congress, Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) successfully amended the 2005 SAFETEA-LU Highway Reauthorization bill to allow states to obtain federal for certain transportation projects. share: f t During the 109th session of Congress, Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) successfully amended the 2005 SAFETEA-LU Highway Reauthorization bill to allow states to obtain federal for certain transportation projects. Today, according to the Texas Department of Transportation, that amendment netted almost $4 million to the State of Texas for transportation, with almost $660,000 going directly to North Texas. “The previous provisions impeded a state’s ability to receive federal transportation development credits, and that was wrong,” said Rep. Burgess. “With help from TxDOT, I was able to recognize this unjust penalty and find a way to fix the problem. Now Texas and states all across the country can receive additional transportation funding to develop and maintain a healthy infrastructure.” Through his work with TxDOT, Rep. Burgess made it possible for more federal funding to go towards transportation at both the state and local level. Previously, if a state used any state or local funds on a toll project, they became ineligible to receive transportation development credits from the federal government. Representative Burgess was able to put an end to this unfair practice. Of the $4 million, $660,000 will go to North Texas projects such as SPAN, Inc., an organization located in Denton which provides transportation services to older persons, persons with disabilities, and veterans, and the Metropolitan Planning Organization in North Texas. Additionally, TxDOT passed an order to utilize transportation development credits in support of the metropolitan planning program. “Recent reports show the Dallas/Fort Worth metroplex is the fastest growing area in the nation, and we must meet that demand with a capable highway infrastructure,” continued Rep. Burgess. “I am pleased that Texas and other states will now receive their fair share of federal transportation development credits.” With the application of this new provision, it is estimated that transportation development credits should net an additional $2.1 billion for Texas’ transportation needs through the life of the 2005 Highway Reauthorization bill. # # #
03.18.2008	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) released the following statement marking the five year anniversary of the war in Iraq: “Five years ago forces of freedom entered Iraq to help bring hope to a terrorized people. The course of liberty is now taking shape there. Yet, we must not lose sight of the American lives that have been lost in our struggle against terrorism and the extremists that perpetuate it. Today, the success of a free Iraq is as critical to the security of the United States as it was the first day the forces of freedom arrived. We must not turn our backs on the progress being made there today if we want to be safe tomorrow. I recently returned from my seventh trip to Iraq, and I am impressed and inspired by the things I saw there. Our troops remain courageous, compassionate, and committed to the mission. The Iraqis are following suit. Violence has decreased dramatically and Iraqi security forces are safeguarding regions and stabilizing neighborhoods. The economic engine has begun to churn and political progress is evident at the local and national levels. So, while there is forward progress, it has come at a heavy price and we must not soon forget that. On the eve of the five year anniversary of the war, a grateful Nation mourns the loss of those men and women who have served with such honor, dignity, and compassion. Their sacrifice is not in vain and their selflessness will be remembered forever.” # # #
03.14.2008	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) today voted against the latest Foreign Intelligence Surveillance bill offered by the Democratic majority in the House of Representatives. He issued the following statement as the House was set to adjourn for two weeks without passing bipartisan legislation to combat terrorism and keep America safe: “Protecting special interests instead of the American people is the wrong prescription for keeping us safe. This bill is a victory for trial lawyers and Moveon.org, not the American people. With each day that passes, we remain less safe until Congress cleans up the legal uncertainties facing companies who assisted our government in the days after September 11, 2001. These companies should be thanked for their service, not punished with unending litigation. It is a simple equation: if corporations face a lawsuit each time they assist their government, they will not want to help. It is unconscionable that the House of Representatives is again taking a break instead of providing the intelligence community with the vital surveillance tools it desperately needs. Passing bipartisan legislation to protect Americans must be a top priority upon Congress' return to Washington." # # #
03.13.2008	Irresponsible Budget Insulting and Insensitive to Taxpayers WASHINGTON –U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) today voted against the largest tax increase in American history, part of a fiscally irresponsible budget proposed by the House Democrat majority. The budget raises taxes to finance hundreds of billions of dollars in new Washington spending. At the same time, it fails to address the need for major reform of entitlement spending, which is out of control and unsustainable in the long-term. “Working families are tightening their belts to pay their bills while the majority party attempts to pin new taxes on their already cash-strapped backs,” said Rep. Burgess. “It’s insulting to ask Americans to work harder to pay for more unnecessary Washington spending.” Under the Democrat budget, 116 million American taxpayers will pay higher taxes, including married couples and families with children. The child tax credit will be cut in half, the marriage tax penalty fully reinstated, and the 10 percent tax bracket increased to 15 percent. Seniors will pay drastically higher taxes on savings and investments while taxes on dividends and capital gains income will double. Family-owned small businesses also will suffer as the plan resurrects the inheritance tax. In Texas’ 26th District alone, the Democrats’ fiscally irresponsible budget would raise taxes, on average, by more than $3,000 per taxpayer. It could also result in a loss of more than 2,700 local jobs and cost the area economy $344 million*. Rep. Burgess expressed concern with the massive $283 billion spending increase called for in the Democrats’ budget. “Spending ourselves silly is not what people sent us here to do. Americans expect more and they deserve better than short-term spending that disregards long-term concerns,” maintained Burgess. The Democrats’ budget also fails to address the coming crisis in our entitlement programs. If Democrats continue to fail to reform entitlements, the increased costs would require raising taxes by the current equiva¬lent of $12,072 per household or eliminating every other government program. “Our country continues to benefit from hard working Texas taxpayers. Unfortunately, these same people are shouldering a disproportionate share of entitlement spending while receiving less than our share of any benefits. This needs to change," commented Rep. Burgess. # # #
03.13.2008	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. today announced the twenty-four individuals from the 26th District of Texas who have been selected as the Class of 2012 United States Service Academies nominees. The young men and women were nominated to attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. If appointed, the nominees will enter this summer. “I am very impressed by the high caliber of candidates that applied to my office; the selection process was very competitive,” said Congressman Burgess. “Each of these students has a strong record of academic performance and community service, and I am proud to nominate them to attend our nation’s service academies. If selected to attend their respective academies, I know that each of them will perform admirably and serve honorably as officers in our country’s military services.” Many of these students were nominated to more that one service academy. If they receive appointment offers from more that one academy, the student will have to choose one to attend. The individuals and the academies to which they have been nominated are: Corbin Anderson of Westlake attends Liberty Christian Academy in Argyle and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Maxwell Anthony attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy. Colton Bartek attends Aubrey High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Billy-Bruce Carroll attends Argyle High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Kelson Davis attends Lewisville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Keegan Farley attends Ponder High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Garrett Getschow attends Flower Mound High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Daniel Gregory of Argyle attends Coram Deo Academy in Flower Mound and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Trey Gregory attends Flower Mound High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Zach Hadel of Gainesville attends the Texas Academy of Math and Science at the University of North Texas in Denton and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Travis Hardy of Roanoke attends Northwest High School in Justin and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Alexander Holt of Roanoke attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and the US. . Colin Jackson of Corinth attends Cistercian Preparatory School in Irving and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Sam McKinnon of Argyle attends Coram Deo Academy in Flower Mound and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Carson McReynolds of Roanoke attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Josh Moore of Denton attends Northwestern Preparatory School in Santa Barbara, CA and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. James Oswald attends Lewisville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Mia Phillips attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Brandon Roberts of Denton attends the Texas Academy of Math and Science at the University of North Texas in Denton and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Andrew Scaparra attends Marcus High School in Flower Mound and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Tyler Snow of Roanoke attends Carroll Senior High School in Southlake and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Wesley Stowe attends The Colony High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Adam Wilde attends Denton High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy. Ford Yeager attends Lewisville high School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. # # #
03.12.2008	Note: This is a press release from Republican Leader John Boehner GOP Leaders Praise National Effort Aimed at Promoting Small Business Health Care Priorities WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) today joined Education & Labor Committee Ranking Member Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA), Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Jim McCrery (R-LA), Rep. Charles Boustany, M.D. (R-LA), and Rep. Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) in praising the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) for launching “Solutions Start Here,” a national campaign to urge lawmakers to work toward real health care solutions for small businesses. The GOP leaders issued the following statement: “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, yet each and every day, they struggle to deliver high-quality health care to their employees. Both parties in Congress have the obligation to work together toward real health care solutions for small businesses – particularly at a time when health care costs and other costs of living are soaring. “House Republicans have advocated health care reforms that would make a meaningful difference for small businesses, their employees, and their families while we work to identify the broader, more comprehensive reforms that are truly needed in American health care policy. For instance, we’ve advocated small business health plans so firms can join together to offer cost-effective, quality care to their employees and their families. And we’ve also reached out to the Majority to improve health information technology infrastructure so small businesses’ paperwork burden and costs are reduced while health care access expands for their employees. Unfortunately, little has been done in this Congress to address these issues – or any other small business health care priorities. “That’s why the NFIB’s ‘Solutions Start Here’ program is so critical. It will play a valuable role in building bipartisan coalitions in Washington and in state capitals to ensure small businesses’ concerns are heard – and their priorities are given the attention and urgency they deserve.” # # #
03.06.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Alison Lynn (202)225-7772 March 6, 2008 Alison.Lynn@mail.house.gov Federal Dollars Will Help Provide Primary and Preventive Care for More Patients WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) and Rep. Bart Stupak (D-MI) today introduced a bill that creates a $75-million grant program to expand primary and preventive care for patients in medically underserved areas. The bi-partisan legislation, the Patients and Public Health Partnership Act of 2008, will improve the access and affordability of health care for some of the most vulnerable populations. “While the demand for primary and preventative care is growing, the supply of this care is not, particularly in medically underserved areas. Providing federal money to expand this critical care will help close this gap,” said Rep. Burgess. Medically Underserved Areas and Medically Underserved Populations have shortages of primary medical care, dental, or mental health providers and may be geographic (a county or service area) or demographic (low income, Medicaid-eligible populations, cultural and/or linguistic access barriers to primary medical care services). Primary care ranges from preventive and diagnostic services, to patient counseling and education, and managing and coordinating patient care. Lack of access to this kind of care is not just confined to the nation’s uninsured. A recent report on the medically underserved found that 1 in 5—or 56 million—Americans do not have access to basic medical care. In Texas, this problem is critical, with 60 percent of adults lacking a usual source of care. In Michigan, it has been estimated that almost 40 percent of all adults fall into this same category. “Expanding access to primary and preventative health services is vital to reducing health care costs for everyone,” Stupak said. “This bill encourages integrated community health clinics to expand their services in underserved communities across the country.” The new funding program has garnered support from some of the nation’s largest health care organizations, including the American Hospital Association, which said the new dollars will be “critical to helping maintain and expand access to cost-effective primary and preventive care.” Ascension Health, the nation's largest Catholic and largest nonprofit health system, also supports the proposed grant program. “We are grateful for this proposed legislation, which would authorize funding for a new public-private partnership between the federal government and nonprofit safety net providers. The integrated model of care supported by the proposed legislation will help reduce duplicative testing, reduce the use of the ER for non-emergent conditions, and assure access to specialty care services -- an especially critical problem for people without health insurance,” remarked Anthony R. Tersigni, EdD, FACHE, Ascension’s President and Chief Executive Officer. “Primary care plays a crucial role in effective patient care. This money will serve as a down payment for expanding primary care to hire primary care doctors, let patients know these doctors are available, and allow for the coordination of continuous care,” commented Burgess. The new grants are authorized for $25 million for each of the fiscal years 2009, 2010, and 2011. # # #
02.25.2008	WASHINGTON –On Sunday, U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and U.S. Representative Michael Burgess (R-TX) returned from a four-day Congressional delegation to Pakistan, Iraq, and Afghanistan. Sen. Hutchison and Rep. Burgess met with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf in Islamabad and then separately visited with a group that included the Co-Chairman of the Pakistani People’s Party (PPP), Asif Ali Zardari, the likely new Prime Minister Makdoom Amin Fahim, and the U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan Anne W. Patterson. “I was very pleased to have meetings in Pakistan with both President Musharraf and PPP leader Zardari this week,” said Sen. Hutchison. “This is a pivotal time for Pakistan, with a new majority now controlling the parliament. It is my hope that our two countries will continue to build our partnership in the fight against terrorism.” Sen. Hutchison and Rep. Burgess then received military briefings at Bagram A.F.B. and visited a local military hospital. At the end of their trip, Sen. Hutchison and Rep. Burgess spent a full day in Baghdad, receiving briefings from the top U.S. military commanders, including General David Petraeus, eating lunch with Texas troops in a security camp in downtown Baghdad, and visiting a local police station to witness the embedding of U.S. and Iraqi troops. “The progress in Baghdad is encouraging,” said Sen. Hutchison. “In our meeting with General Petraeus and our visit to a local police station where our troops are embedded with Iraqi police, you can see that Iraqis are taking more of the responsibility for their security. This is a major step toward decreasing the U.S. presence, so our troop numbers can be lowered.” “America’s security depends on the stability of each of the countries we visited,” said Rep. Burgess. “While they’re all different, they’re also interrelated. Our progress in one helps determine success in the other, and I saw evidence of this success in all three places.” -- END --
02.15.2008	Michael C. Burgess, M.D. UNITED STATES CONGRESSMAN Representing Texas’ 26th Congressional District FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Friday, February 15, 2008 Contact: Alison Lynn (202) 225-7772 Alison.Lynn@mail.house.gov Rep. Burgess Urges Speaker Pelosi to bring the House Back WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas) sent a letter to the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi (D-California) expressing his outrage for her refusal to allow the U.S. House of Representatives to vote on the FISA bill the U.S. Senate passed with bi-partisan support just days before. The letter additionally urges Speaker Pelosi to right the wrong by calling the House back into session. Text of the letter: February 15, 2008 Office of the Speaker of the House The Honorable Nancy Pelosi United States Capitol Dear Madam Speaker: I ask you to immediately bring the House of Representatives back into session to vote on the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, H.R. 3773, as amended by the Senate. In this morning’s Washington Post, Michael McConnell, Director of National Intelligence wrote the following: “Some have claimed that expiration of the Protect America Act would not significantly affect our operations. Such claims are not supported by the facts. We are already losing capability due to the failure to address liability protection. Without the act in place, vital programs would be plunged into uncertainty and delay, and capabilities would continue to decline.” We must not let this vital issue of national security become partisan. The American people deserve better. The Senate has acted in a clear bipartisan matter by passing a strong FISA bill by an overwhelming majority. Members of your own caucus have directly indicated to you that they fully support the Senate-passed FISA bill. We must take up this legislation immediately. I have received numerous letters from my constituents over the past week wondering why the Congress is investigating steroids in baseball and bickering about contempt charges based on flimsy evidence while our national security is teetering in the balance. As I am sure you know, upon completing his tenure as President of the United States, John Quincy Adams returned to the House of Representatives because he believed that the House, above all else, was the branch of the United States government that was closest to the people. In this spirit I strongly urge you to call the House of Representatives back into session immediately so that we may debate and vote on the bipartisan Senate bill that we have before us. I believe by not calling Congress back to address this issue, it reflects negatively on the competency of the current leadership, diminishes the credibility of the House of Representatives, and places American people in danger. There should not be an expiration date on America’s security. Sincerely, Michael Burgess, M.D. Member of Congress ###
01.29.2008	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville) has been recognized as a “True Blue” Member of Congress by FRC Action and Focus on the Family Action for his unwavering commitment to the family. “Families are the backbone of our society. Keeping them safe and strong is my top priority and my voting record reflects this,” commented Rep. Burgess. The “True Blue” Award honors Members of Congress who have exhibited extraordinary leadership and commitment to the defense of family, faith, and freedom, according to FRC Action’s new scorecard covering House and Senate votes during the 1st session of the 110th Congress. Recipients of the award voted consistently for pro-life and pro-family issues. These votes included: Defending Restrictions on Funding International Abortion Groups Human Cloning Prohibition Embryonic Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act Thought Crimes Act Protect Abstinence Program for HIV/AIDs Prevention Funding D.C. Needle Exchange Program Funding D.C. Gay Marriage Amendment Restrict Funding Planned Parenthood Amendment Prohibit Implementing the “Fairness Doctrine” Pseudo-Children’s Health Bill “The Members of the 110th Congress who received this award have been consistent, stalwart allies of American families,” said FRC Action President Tony Perkins. “These Members are to be commended for supporting public policy that values human life, protects our religious liberties, and upholds the institutions of marriage and the family.” “I applaud these Members for defending pro-family and pro-life policies that have been under attack this past year. Values voters should be encouraged by these Members who have shown a commitment to protecting and strengthening the family, continued Mr. Perkins. For more information on the Vote Scorecard, visit www.frcaction.org
01.29.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today urged Congress to put politics aside and work together to ensure all Americans have access to affordable, quality health care: “We can keep holding health care reform hearings where we deliver emotional speeches and partisan sound bites about the uninsured. But, what we really need to do is stop talking and start acting. That is what the American people expect and what they send us to Washington to do. Despite the political rhetoric of an election year, we should put partisanship aside and work together to cover uninsured Americans. We can begin by crafting common sense insurance reforms that contain cost and extend coverage and by rejecting mandates that expand the reach of the federal government into private health care. If we can put differences aside to put a man on the moon and end the Cold War, we can work together to make health care affordable and accessible to all Americans.” # # #
01.29.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today urged Congress to work together to apply real problem-solving methods to repair the shortcomings revealed by the latest FDA self-assessment: “I learned in my private medical practice that the only way to truly fix the ailments of my patients was to make sure the patient’s entire system was healthy. Putting a band-aide on a broken arm never worked. This applies to policy problems at the federal level as well. We cannot fall into the trap of just throwing money at a problem and calling that a solution. There is no doubt in my mind that an increase in resources is needed at the FDA, but these resources must be invested wisely, and we must remember that money is not the answer to every problem. Today we need to carefully analyze the FDA’s problems and try to reach common-sense and fiscally responsible solutions. Regardless of what some might say increasing Federal spending can’t fix everything.” # # #
01.29.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE STATEMENT Burgess Does Not Support Economic Stimulus Package Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today voted against the economic stimulus package saying: Tax relief and tax incentives are important tools that can help stimulate economic growth. But, they shouldn’t do so at the expense of current or future generations of Americans. The $150 billion spending bill, which we were given very little time to review, will worsen the deficit and will have little effect in the near term. There are better ways to boost the economy than by piling on additional debt. That’s why I did not support the stimulus package today. # # # Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., practiced medicine as an OB-GYN in North Texas for nearly three decades before coming to Washington, D.C., to represent the 26th District of Texas. He serves on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and four of its subcommittees: Oversight and Investigations, Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, Health, and Energy and Air Quality. He is also the Vice Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee.
01.28.2008	After witnessing President Bush's last State of the Union speech,Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., tonight urged Congress to put politics aside and work with the President to find solutions to the challenges facing America in 2008: “Tonight, the President called on Congress to act quickly on a number of key priorities, including keep our Nation safe, strong and secure, while also keeping our economy growing. Members should heed the call by putting politics aside and working to find sensible solutions to these and the other challenges before us. We can, as the President pointed out, find common ground to support our fighting men and women on the front lines, to make government more accountable, and to boost our economy. These are the things that the American people sent us to Washington to do and we have an obligation to complete their business.” # # #
01.23.2008	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today urged Congress to seize the opportunity to strengthen the State Children’s Health Insurance Plan (SCHIP) for the long-term: “Albert Einstein said the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. He must have been foreshadowing the 110th Congress’ votes on SCHIP. Just because it is a new year does not mean bad policy magically becomes good policy. The SCHIP extension we passed in December ensures no one loses coverage and that states receive an increase in funding to head off shortfalls. Now we have the chance to keep the program healthy in the long run. Despite the political rhetoric of an election year, we should put partisanship aside and cover our poorest children. That is what the American people expect and what our next generation deserves.” Click here to watch the video of Rep. Burgess speaking on the House floor before the SCHIP Veto Override vote Click here to view Rep. Burgess' statement on The Hill's blog regarding the SCHIP Vero Override vote
01.18.2008	STATEMENT Rep. Burgess Honors Martin Luther King, Jr. Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today issued the following statement in honor of Martin Luther King, Jr. : “Martin Luther King, Jr., was a giant of a man who has left a giant legacy of courage and character. He reminded us all that freedom and liberty belong to every man, woman, and child on God’s earth. This is a lesson we should never forget and one we should work hard every day to make a reality.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., practiced medicine as an OB-GYN in North Texas for nearly three decades before coming to Washington, D.C., to represent the 26th District of Texas. He serves on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and four of its subcommittees: Oversight and Investigations, Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, Health, and Energy and Air Quality. He is also the Vice Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee. ###
01.17.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE STATEMENT Rep. Burgess Says Patching Transportation Funding Problems by Raising the Gas Tax Wrong Solution at Wrong Time Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today urged Congress to recognize that raising the gas tax to fund transportation is the wrong way to fix long-term transportation problems: “It’s irresponsible to tell Americans that the best way to solve traffic congestion and pay for roads and bridges is to make them pay even more at the pump. For Texans, the gas tax is not a good deal in the first place. For every dollar we send to DC, we only receive about 69 cents back for our roads. Until we are able to change this ratio, I will not advocate for Texans sending even more gas dollars to Washington. Raising the gas tax is also incredibly short-sighted. Transportation problems run deeper than money and they are not going away any time soon. That means proposals to fix them cannot just patch the tread. We need to reinvent the wheel when it comes to transportation policy. I urge fellow Members to be willing to do that as we start talking about passing the next highway bill in 2009.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., practiced medicine as an OB-GYN in North Texas for nearly three decades before coming to Washington, D.C., to represent the 26th District of Texas. He serves on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and four of its subcommittees: Oversight and Investigations, Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, Health, and Energy and Air Quality. He is also the Vice Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee. ###
01.17.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE STATEMENT Rep. Burgess Says Confronting Climate Change and Economic Growth Don’t Have to Be Mutually Exclusive Washington, D.C. –Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today urged Congress and the Administration to recognize we can address climate change while also promoting growth and energy security: “The United States proves every day that we can walk and chew gum at the same time. In other words, we can do a whole host of things well every day. That should be our approach to climate change. There is no reason that we cannot confront climate change while boosting our economy and promoting energy security at the same time.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., practiced medicine as an OB-GYN in North Texas for nearly three decades before coming to Washington, D.C., to represent the 26th District of Texas. He serves on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and four of its subcommittees: Oversight and Investigations, Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, Health, and Energy and Air Quality. He is also the Vice Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee. ###
01.16.2008	The Website of Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville) has been honored by the non-profit, non-partisan Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) as one of the best in Congress. The site, /, is commended in The 2007 Gold Mouse Report: Lessons from the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill. “The people who elect me want to know where I stand, what I am doing, and how I can help them. My website is a one-stop-shop that provides that information,” said Rep. Burgess. “I’m pleased to see that a third party ranks the site as one of the best at meeting these needs,” continued Burgess. To identify the awards, CMF analyzed 618 Congressional Web sites, including those of all Senate and House Members, committees (both majority and minority sites), and official leadership sites. Web sites were graded on how well they incorporate five basic building blocks which extensive research identified as critical for effectiveness: audience, content, usability, interactivity, and innovation. Using these building blocks, an evaluation framework was developed that would be fair and objective while still taking into account important qualitative factors that affect a visitor's experience on a Web site. “Rep. Burgess’ Web site shows that he understands the value of creating a virtual office to reach specific audiences who have come to expect having their needs met online,” said Beverly Bell, CMF’s Executive Director. “Web sites like Rep. Burgess’ provide a template for other congressional offices to follow,” continued Bell. A full copy of the report, the 2007 Gold Mouse Report: Lessons from the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill, is available on the Congressional Management Foundation’s Web site at www.cmfweb.org. ###
12.30.2007	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today issued the following statement regarding the death of Texas Transportation Commission Chairman Ric Williamson : "My heart goes out to the family of Ric Williamson during this difficult time. Ric will always be remembered by his friends and associates as a true champion for all things Texan. Unafraid to challenge the status quo, he was a highly regarded leader bringing innovative ideas to provide safe, economic and reliable transportation to improve the daily lives of Texans. On a personal level Ric remained a patient mentor and a steadfast friend. He will be greatly missed. "
12.27.2007	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today issued the following statement about the assassination of Pakistani Opposition Leader Benazir Bhutto: Benazir Bhutto was a charismatic and courageous leader. Her tragic death is a loss to Pakistan and to the cause of democracy around the world. It is also a stark reminder that terrorists will stop at nothing to spread hatred and violence. While her life has been extinguished, Benazir Bhutto’s legacy lives on. The world must come together to honor that legacy by condemning terrorism and supporting free and fair elections in Pakistan and around the world.
12.27.2007	U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), M.D., today announced over $3.6 million in federal money will go to the Pecan Creek flood control project in 2008. “An investment in flood control for Pecan Creek is an investment in saving lives,” said Rep. Burgess. “After witnessing the destruction and learning about the 30-year-plus delay, steering money toward these efforts was a priority for me,” continued Burgess. Pecan Creek in Gainesville has overrun its banks at least half a dozen times over the last fifty years, causing extensive damage and even death. The Army Corps of Engineers began studying flood control options for the area back in 1973, yet no project has been completed. With the new federal funding secured by Rep. Burgess in the omnibus spending bill, construction can now begin on the flood control project started by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 2002. It began after city voters approved a multi-million-dollar bond package to provide the city's matching money for improvements to flood-prone Pecan Creek. “We’ve got the plans, got the experts, and soon we’ll have the money to help protect Pecan Creek and Gainesville from flooding in the future,” said Rep. Burgess. The Corps estimates that if action is not taken, economic damages will average nearly $800,000 per year. As the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex continues to expand North and Gainesville continues to grow, economic and property damage from possible flooding will only increase. This federal funding is part of the 2008 omnibus spending bill President Bush signed on December 26, 2007. # # #
12.27.2007	U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), M.D., today announced $1,217,900 in federal funding to provide transportation, economic development, and early childhood services for the city of Fort Worth and surrounding communities. “Giving our children a healthy start in life is one of the greatest gifts we can give them. This money will help make this possible for more babies in Tarrant County,” said Rep. Burgess. He continued, “Because our children are our most valuable resource, we must continue to also provide them with access to educational opportunities. Early childhood centers like the ones we are helping to fund with federal dollars provide that kind of opportunity.” Included is an extension of the runway at Alliance Airport, increased education and outreach capabilities for the Tarrant County Infant Mortality Task Force, and the creation and upkeep of additional centers for the Fort Worth Early Childhood Development Program. Additionally, Texas Wesleyan University will receive federal funds to renovate and revitalize an area close to the campus which will encourage rehabilitation and economic growth. “Improving the safety of our students and of our neighborhood is vitally important to Texas Wesleyan. Rep. Burgess recognizes this and helped secure the funding we need to start the improvement process,” said Dr. Harold G. Jeffcoat, President of Texas Wesleyan University. Funding for Alliance Airport will be used to lengthen a runway, which will provide economic growth benefits to the entire North Texas area. Texas Wesleyan University will receive funds to bring attractive commercial buildings and open spaces in a three-block area which will enhance the appearance and improve safety for the Texas Wesleyan community. This federal funding is part of the 2008 omnibus spending bill President Bush signed on December 26, 2007. # # #
12.27.2007	U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), M.D., today announced over $6.5 million in federal money will go to local law enforcement, transportation, education, and flood protection in Denton County in 2008. “These federal dollars are investments in our communities that will help us continue to create jobs, build safer roads, and improve the health of our families,” said Rep. Burgess. In the City of Denton, $352,500 will go to provide equipment and technology for the new Denton Public Safety Training Facility. These tools will help enhance overall preparedness and first response capabilities for local law enforcement and emergency responders in Denton and across the region. “Protecting people and saving lives are what law enforcement officers and first responders do best. This funding will help provide them with the training tools they need to continue doing just that,” Rep. Burgess said. Denton Mayor Perry McNeill agrees. “Denton's growth necessitates continued training and upgrading of our outstanding police officers,” said Mayor McNeill. "Representative Burgess's leadership has provided an important head start for delivering this training in our new Public Safety Training Facility with state of the art equipment and technology,” he continued. Lewisville will receive more than $4.4 million for operation and maintenance of the Lewisville Dam. These funds will help enhance the structural integrity of the dam and the strengthen flood protection capabilities for the cities of Lewisville, Coppell, Farmers Branch, and Dallas. Local transit and airport projects will also receive federal funding. These include $245,000 for Denton County Transportation Authority to begin the design and engineering process for rail service connecting Denton County with Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART). Additionally, Alliance Airport will receive $738,000 to extend the runway to allow cargo aircraft to conduct international flights. “Increasing air service and transit options will help bring new jobs, new investments, and new opportunities to North Texas now and in the future,” commented Rep. Burgess. Charles Emery, Chairman of the Board of the Denton County Transportation Authority, is pleased to hear federal funding is on its way. “We’re excited about having the federal government as a partner in this rail program,” he said. On the education front, the Center for Advanced Scientific Computing and Modeling (CASCAM) at the University of North Texas will receive $738,000 to help fund a new, state-of-the-art facility that will help expand biological and environmental research. These funds will help UNT researchers address scientific problems of immediate interest to the nation, ranging from transportation, to medicine, and national security. “The University of North Texas is rapidly emerging as a first-class research institution. CASCAM is an integral part of the reason why. We appreciate Congressman Burgess’ acknowledgement of our mission and his work to champion support for our research at the federal level," said Lee Jackson, UNT System Chancellor. This federal funding is part of the 2008 omnibus spending bill President Bush signed on December 26, 2007. # # #
12.19.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 19, 2007Contact: Alison Lynn Alison.Lynn@mail.house.gov202-225-7772 House Bill Ushers in the Next Generation of Product Safety Legislation Rep. Burgess Co-Sponsors Passes U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bi-partisan bill to strengthen the Consumer Product Safety Commission’s abilities to ensure the safety of consumer products. “This is the first major overhaul of the Consumer Product Safety Commission since its creation. It ushers in the next generation of product safety for our children and our businesses,” said Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX). The Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act boosts Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) funding and personnel, bans lead in children's products, requires third-party product testing, and increases penalties for those who break the law. Additionally, it requires the CPSC to inform non-profits of recalled products. The second-hand retailer provision was included at the urging of Burgess. “Non-profit retailers are responsible for the resale of millions of products, so the government has a responsibility to notify them about dangerous products more quickly and on a broader scope. This bill makes that happen,” said Congressman Burgess. Concern about second-hand retailers arose after discussions with a local nonprofit, Christian Community Action in Lewisville, Texas. It became evident there may be a large group of people and associations that are not receiving the information about product recalls in a timely manner. “These thrift stores serve an invaluable role in allowing us to raise the substantial funds necessary to meet the financial and vocational needs of the poor in our area. Congressman Burgess’ efforts relating to this bill will make a big difference in our ability to operate that business safely, efficiently and effectively” said Scott Orr, President and CEO of Christian Community Action. The other measure would require the CPSC to provide Congress a specific strategy outlining how it can strengthen its ability to stop unsafe products from entering into the U.S. “As a physician, parent, and policy maker, I understand that we need to put politics aside to protect our children. I’m proud to say we have done that,” said Rep. Burgess. ###
12.18.2007	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today urged fellow members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee to strengthen the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act even further: “This bipartisan bill is the first major overhaul of the Consumer Product Safety Commission since its creation. That is great news for our families and businesses. But, lives are on the line so we must do even more. That is why I am urging Congress to go the extra mile to ensure there are no more toxic toy stories. Removing dangerous and defective goods from store shelves is critically important. We must also be able to stop them from coming into this country in the first place. We need to create a big red stop button for the federal government to push so we can refuse recalled products before they are delivered here. Americans can refuse packages that come to their homes or business. The federal government should be able to do the same with tainted, foreign goods.”
12.17.2007	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., issued the following statement this afternoon hours before the House is scheduled to vote on the giant spending bill: “The American people expect Congress to do its job, which includes passing spending bills to fund the government. Now, as we are set to return home, we receive a single, 3000-page spending bill and only a few hours to read it. It is not right and I plan to register my objection by refusing to support it.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., practiced medicine as an OB-GYN in North Texas for nearly three decades before coming to Washington, D.C., to represent the 26th District of Texas. He serves on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and four of its subcommittees: Oversight and Investigations, Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, Health, and Energy and Air Quality. He is also the Vice Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee. ###
12.12.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Alison LynnDecember 12, 2007 202-225-7772 Rep. Burgess’ Urges Congress To Keep the Connection Between Doctors and Patients Healthy Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas), M.D., today introduced a House resolution that commits Congress to stop scheduled cuts to Medicare physician payments: “Medicare was created to connect patients with physicians. If Congress cuts payments, we are slowly severing this life line to our greatest generation. As the people’s proxies in Washington, we have to stop these cuts before it’s too late. I urge Members to work together to do that. Band-aid solutions that simply cover the larger payment problem won’t work in the long-term. Doctors across the country are opting out of Medicare just as millions of baby boomers are about to enroll. That’s a prescription for disaster. Fixing this payment problem now will help us head off this crisis in the future.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., practiced medicine as an OB-GYN in North Texas for nearly three decades before coming to Washington, D.C., to represent the 26th District of Texas. He serves on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and four of its subcommittees: Oversight and Investigations, Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, Health, and Energy and Air Quality. He is also the Vice Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee. ###
11.28.2007	United States Representative Michael C. Burgess, (R-TX) M.D., himself a physician, met today with Congressional Gold Medal winner Dr. Michael E. DeBakey. Burgess, an OB-GYN for nearly three decades, helped spearhead the effort to award DeBakey the Gold Medal, the nation’s highest civilian honor, in the U.S. House of Representatives. Calling DeBakey a “giant in medicine and mankind,” Burgess commented, “It is not every day you get to meet one of your heroes. I had that chance today, and it was one of the most memorable moments in my life.” DeBakey helped revolutionize the treatment of injured soldiers and veterans while changing the face of cardiovascular surgery. He is credited with inventing and perfecting scores of medical devices, techniques and procedures which have led to healthy hearts and productive lives for millions throughout the world. Dr. DeBakey will officially receive the Congressional Gold Medal in 2008, joining the likes of President George Washington, Dr. Jonas Salk, and Mother Teresa of Calcutta who have changed the course of history. Since the American Revolution, Congress has commissioned gold medals as its highest expression of national appreciation for distinguished achievements and contributions. Among other things, the two doctors discussed the state of health care in the United States. They talked about how scientific discovery has revolutionized preventative care and the treatment of diseases. “America has always been a country of innovation. Dr. DeBakey’s work lives up to that legacy,” commented Burgess. “If we want to keep innovating and ignite even more improvements, Congress must reform health care in a way that encourages advancements, rather than discouraging them.” Dr. DeBakey also commented that if we are to address the problem of the uninsured, it is important that people who understand medicine are involved in the process. He pointed to the Congressman and said, “people like you.” DeBakey also stressed creating “programs that people want.” Congressman Burgess, who is helping lead the charge to reform health care in Congress, was also interested to hear DeBakey’s comments on the evolution of the American medical system. The legendary doctor told him there was a time when researchers and physicians traveled to Europe to get their educations, and today the reverse is true: people from all over the world are coming to America. “Dr. DeBakey had the compassion to care for his patients. He combined it with creativity and courage, and changed medicine for the better. Now it is time for Congress to take this prescription and apply it improving health care in the 21st century,” said Rep. Burgess.
11.26.2007	U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), M.D., today urged local, state, and federal leaders to continue working together to find innovative ways to tackle the many transportation challenges facing Texas. Burgess made these comments as part of the 5th Annual Texas’ 26th Congressional District Transportation Summit, which was held in conjunction with the Texas Department of Transportation. “When our transportation system is healthy, our lives are easier and our economy is more prosperous. When it’s strained, our families are stressed and our businesses suffer. That’s why it’s so important for government at all levels to work together to strengthen and improve it,” said Rep. Burgess. This year’s summit included presentations from Tarrant, Denton and Cooke county transportation leaders which focused on highways, transit and aviation issues in the region. In addition, Rep. John Mica (R-FL), the Republican leader of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure gave the luncheon keynote address. “Congressman Burgess understands how important transportation is to the economy and quality of life in North Texas, and I appreciate his continued hard work in calling attention to the transportation needs of this region,” said Rep. John Mica (R-FL). Officials at the summit stressed the need for infrastructure like roads, bridges, and rail lines to keep pace with the growing demand. While the summit focused on identifying problems like traffic congestion and funding shortages, leaders also took the opportunity to talk about ways to solve these issues. “At a time when traffic congestion threatens our mobility, safety and quality of life, we are running out of money to pay for new construction," said Maribel Chavez, TxDOT's Fort Worth district engineer. "Now more than ever, we must all work together to prioritize needs and identify innovative funding options to build transportation projects. The transportation summit provides a great opportunity to discuss the issues and meet the needs of our growing region.” # # # Contact: Alison Lynn or Lauren Bean (202)225-7772 Alison.Lynn@mail.house.gov Lauren.Bean@mail.house.gov
11.20.2007	From the Consumer Product Safety Commission's website: NEWS from CPSC U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission Office of Information and Public Affairs Washington, DC 20207 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 20, 2007Release #08-086 CPSC Hotline: (800) 638-2772 CPSC Delivers the ABC’s of Toy Safety WASHINGTON, D.C. - As gift-givers shop for that perfect toy this holiday season, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) is emphasizing the importance of shopping safely. Knowing your ABC’s of toy safety will make for happy holidays: (A) awareness, and knowing the (B) benefits, for (C) consumers – (Awareness Benefits Consumers). Awareness is not only knowing there is a CPSC and what the agency does to protect consumers but also being aware of what poses the greatest risks. The leading causes of toy-related fatalities include choking and aspiration of toy parts. The increased scrutiny of toys and the CPSC has led to B, or benefits, to consumers. CPSC has increased the agency’s inspections of toys and is taking the action needed to remove violative products from the marketplace. More companies are testing their products and reporting possible safety problems. The Chinese government has signed new agreements to conduct pre-export inspections to prevent lead painted toys and other unsafe toys from being exported to the U.S. “CPSC recalled 61 toys involving more than 25 million product units in 2007, underscoring CPSC’s daily commitment to keeping consumers safe 365 days a year,” said Acting CPSC Chairman Nancy Nord. “Toys today are undergoing more inspection and more intense scrutiny than ever before.” Finally C, consumers should stay informed and be aware of recalls by signing up to receive direct e-mail notification of recalls at www.cpsc.gov. CPSC has launched a “Drive to 1 Million” to sign up at least 1 million consumers to receive this direct notification. Consumers can also be more aware by shopping with CPSC's Top Safe Shopping Tips for this year: Ride-on Toys – Riding toys, skateboards and in-line skates go fast and falls could be deadly. Helmets and safety gear should be sized to fit. Small Parts – For children younger than age three, avoid toys with small parts, which can cause choking. Magnets – For children under age six, avoid building sets with small magnets. If magnets or pieces with magnets are swallowed, serious injuries and/or death can occur. Projectile Toys – Projectile toys such as air rockets, darts and sling shots are for older children. Improper use of these toys can result in serious eye injuries. Chargers and Adapters – Charging batteries should be supervised by adults. Chargers and adapters can pose thermal burn hazards to children. To choose appropriate toys for children: Be a label reader. Look for toy labels that give age and safety recommendations and use that information as a guide. Select toys to suit the age, abilities, skills and interest level of the intended child. Look for sturdy construction, such as tightly-secured eyes, noses and other potential small parts. For all children under 8, avoid toys that have sharp edges and points. Once the gifts are open: Immediately discard plastic wrappings on toys before they become dangerous play things. Keep toys appropriate for older children away from younger siblings or neighbors. Pay attention to instructions and warnings on battery chargers. Some chargers lack any device to prevent overcharging. --- Send the link for this page to a friend! The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission is charged with protecting the public from unreasonable risks of serious injury or death from more than 15,000 types of consumer products under the agency's jurisdiction. Deaths, injuries and property damage from consumer product incidents cost the nation more than $700 billion annually. The CPSC is committed to protecting consumers and families from products that pose a fire, electrical, chemical, or mechanical hazard or can injure children. The CPSC's work to ensure the safety of consumer products - such as toys, cribs, power tools, cigarette lighters, and household chemicals - contributed significantly to the 30 percent decline in the rate of deaths and injuries associated with consumer products over the past 30 years. To report a dangerous product or a product-related injury, call CPSC's hotline at (800) 638-2772 or CPSC's teletypewriter at (800) 638-8270, or visit CPSC's web site at www.cpsc.gov/talk.html. To join a CPSC email subscription list, please go to www.cpsc.gov/cpsclist.aspx. Consumers can obtain this release and recall information at CPSC's Web site at www.cpsc.gov. Click here to see the Neighborhood Safety Network's Toy Safety and Holiday Decorating Safety Poster
11.20.2007	MEDIA ADVISORY Congressman Burgess Brings Together National and Local Leaders to Tackle Transportation Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), in conjunction with the Texas Department of Transportation, will host the 5th Annual Texas’ 26th Congressional District Transportation Summit. The event will feature local, state and federal leaders and is devoted to improving transportation throughout North Texas. WHO: U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX) U.S. Rep. John Mica (R-FL), Republican Leader of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, U.S. House of Representatives Steve Simmons, Deputy Executive Director, TxDOT WHAT: 5th Annual Texas’ 26th Congressional District/TxDOT Transportation Summit WHEN: Monday, November 26, 2007 9:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Texas Motor Speedway U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D., represents the 26th District of Texas, which includes parts of Denton Tarrant, Cooke, and Dallas Counties. He currently serves on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and is Vice Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee. Rep. Burgess is also a member of the bipartisan Texas Congressional Delegation’s Transportation Working Group. This organization includes Texas Representatives working to encourage creative and cooperative initiatives between the State and federal government to address our short and long-term transportation challenges. For more details on the Texas’ 26th Congressional District/TxDOT Transportation Summit, please contact Alison Lynn or Lauren Bean at (202) 225-7772. # # #
11.19.2007	Travelers can find airport delay information for their departure and destination airports this holiday season by visiting a special Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) website. “We want to help provide consumers with a better travel experience by enabling them to know what to expect before they get to the airport,” said Hank Krakowski, chief operating officer for the agency’s Air Traffic Organization. The website, www.fly.faa.gov, allows travelers to check whether they can expect to encounter delays at specific airports. General information – if operations are running smoothly or if there are delays – can be obtained simply by moving a mouse cursor over one of the airports featured on a map of the United States. More detailed information, including current average delay times and the reason for the delay, can be obtained by clicking on the airport. Travelers equipped with pagers, cell phones or personal digital assistants such as BlackBerry devices can obtain delay information from the FAA via e-mail. Users can register for the free "Aviation Information System," at the www.fly.faa.gov site. The FAA also advises travelers to check on their actual flight’s status with the airlines, Krakowski said. Created with the traveling public in mind, www.fly.faa.gov has received numerous awards, including the Center of Excellence for Information Technology (CEIT) award. ###
11.16.2007	Yesterday Congressman Michael Burgess (R-Texas) introduced H.R. 4190, a bill that would disqualify members of Congress and their families from the Federal employees health benefits program. “I believe that before members of Congress can even attempt to reform America’s health care system, they should know what it’s like to be a consumer in that system,” said Congressman Burgess. “We need to be aware of how costly and time-consuming it can be, as well as be familiar with the lack of information and transparency.” Congressman Burgess believes this will help members of Congress become better consumers of health insurance which would in turn assist in crafting more effective health care policy. H.R. 4190 states that each individual member will be given a $1500 voucher to shop for health insurance. Members with families will be given a $3000 voucher. “This will be instructional for members, both Republicans and Democrats, as we tackle the challenge of reforming our health care system,” said Congressman Burgess. “We should have to go out and shop for private health insurance just like many Americans are forced to do each year.” Even leading Democratic Presidential candidates have noted that Congress needs to be held accountable. “Shopping for health insurance for yourself or your family is a fact of life for many, and in Washington we are supposed to set the guidelines for how Americans go about doing that,” said Congressman Burgess. “I can’t think of a better way for members to get first-hand knowledge of that process so we get back to work passing meaningful health care legislation.” ###
11.15.2007	Today the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection held markup to consider two bills, H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act, and H.R. 1216, the Cameron Gulbransen Kids and Cars Safety Act of 2007. Congressman Michael Burgess, (R-Texas) offered two amendments to H.R. 4040: the first amendment, which was subsequently withdrawn but will be offered at the full committee markup, would enhance the authority of the Commission to refuse admission of contaminated imported consumer products; and the second amendment, which has bi-partisan support within the subcommittee, will bring forth increased awareness and education to retailers of second-hand products about consumer product recalls. This amendment is co-sponsored by Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-Illinois), and its acceptance is expected. The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Burgess: “I am an original cosponsor of H.R. 4040, The Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act, and I would like to commend the leadership of this committee for the true bipartisan undertaking. I am honored to be a member of this subcommittee, which works hard to take measures to keep families safe from unreasonable dangers imposed by consumer products. “I believe in the true spirit of my first amendment, which would allow us to take control of the consumer products that are being sent to America. However, I do realize that authority would be new, and would require much consultation. Therefore, I withdraw my amendment with the understanding that I will continue to work with the committee and re-offer the amendment at the full committee markup. “Along with Ms. Schakowsky, I would like to offer an amendment that will bring forth increased awareness and education to retailers of second-hand products about consumer product recalls. We both believe we must improve the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission’s ability to notify consumers and sellers about dangerous products more quickly and on a broader scope.”Of note: On October 25, 2007, Congressman Burgess introduced H.R. 3967, The Imported Food Safety Improvement Act of 2007. This legislation would allow the FDA to embargo a specific food from a specific country if there were repeated instances of that food being found contaminated when it arrived in the United States. H.R. 3967 has been referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. “I firmly believe that the FDA needs the ability and explicit authority to immediately stop dangerous foods from coming into this country. This bill would give the FDA the tools to do just that. I think of it like this: goods are coming into this country on a conveyor belt, and when we find a bad apple on that belt, the FDA needs to be able to push a big red button and immediately stop the apple from continuing into the line of commerce.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a Republican who was a doctor for 25 years in North Texas before coming to Washington, DC to represent the 26th District of Texas. He serves on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and four subcommittees of that committee: Oversight and Investigations, Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, Health, and Energy and Air Quality. He is also the Vice Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee.
11.15.2007	Burgess amendment aimed at improving awareness of product recalls for second-hand retailers is accepted After a summer of recall after recall of consumer products, do you ever wonder if that purchase from your local second-hand store was actually one that should have been removed from the shelves months ago due to safety hazards? Today the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection held a markup to consider H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act. Congressman Michael Burgess, (R-Lewisville) offered an amendment that would help consumers make that call. Congressman Burgess’ bipartisan amendment, which was accepted, aims at bringing forth increased awareness and education to retailers of second-hand products about consumer product recalls. This amendment was co-sponsored by Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-Illinois). “I introduced this amendment today because I believe we must improve the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission’s ability to notify non-profit retailers about dangerous products more quickly and on a broader scope,” said Congressman Burgess. Concern arose after discussions Congressman Burgess had with one local nonprofit, Christian Community Action in Lewisville, Texas. It became evident there may be a large group of people and associations that are not receiving the information about product recalls in a timely manner. “Our thrift stores handle thousands of transactions and literally millions of items that are donated for resale,” said Scott Orr, President and CEO of Christian Community Action. “In the past, when dealing with recalled products, we have had to rely on news accounts and notices we find indirectly, because there has been no system for us to receive direct notice.” The amendment states that the Consumer Product Safety Commission must take efforts to reach and educate retailers of second-hand products and informal sellers, such as thrift shops and yard sales, concerning consumer product safety standards and product recalls. These efforts must include developing and distributing education materials about product recalls to second-hand retail stores. The main goal of the amendment is to prevent the resale of any products that have been recalled. “Many nonprofits, to no fault of their own, are unaware of many of the recalls, and therefore, the fear is that they may inadvertently sell recalled products to families and individuals,” said Congressman Burgess. “This gap must be closed, and this amendment will help us close it.” ###
11.14.2007	The Diesel Technology Forum hosted a reception November 14, 2007 in Washington, D.C., celebrating the one year anniversary of the arrival of Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel. Congressman Michael Burgess (R-TX) visited the Clean Diesel Technology reception and spoke with industry leaders. The Diesel Technology Forum began in 2000 as a non-profit educational organization dedicated to raising awareness about the economic importance and essential uses of diesel engines. According to their website, the Diesel Technology Forum highlights the continuous improvements in fuel efficiency and emissions reductions as well as the progress to reduce the environmental impact of the existing fleet of diesel engines. Ultra low sulfur diesel now accounts for 75 percent of distillate fuel production and the Environmental Protection Agency estimates that over 90 percent of all retail service stations that have diesel are now carrying ultra low sulfur diesel. Since October 2006, more than 838 million barrels of clean diesel have entered the U.S. distribution system. "Diesel has been the backbone of our economy for over 100 years. Whether it is fueling our over-the-road fleet, moving city buses, sustaining military vehicles on duty, or fueling the farm equipment that supports agriculture, diesel fuel helps keep our nation running,” said Congressman Burgess. “Clean diesel technology is reducing emissions without sacrificing performance or efficiency required by the industry. Clean diesel continues to introduce innovative ways to increase production and efficiency to provide what I believe is a vital and versatile commodity in our global economy." The diesel industry contributes over $85 billion annually to the nation's economy and plans to increase the use of diesel in North America. The Clean Diesel Technology reception brought industry-leading professionals to Washington to speak with policy makers about their efforts to expand the uses of clean diesel. The reception held on Capitol Hill included representatives from BMW, BorgWarner, BOSCH, Caterpillar, Cummins, Donaldson, Eaton, GM, International Truck and Engine, Johnson Matthey, Sturman Industries, Volkswagen and Volvo Powertrain. While at the reception, Congressman Burgess took the opportunity to meet with representatives from Cummins Inc., a components supplier to Peterbilt Motors Company, which is headquartered in Denton, Texas. In June, 2006, Cummins announced an agreement for the Cummins' 6- and 8-liter engines to be installed exclusively in Peterbilt and Kenworth's North American conventional medium-duty commercial vehicles. "I want to thank these corporations for all their hard work and encourage them to continue to pursue energy efficiency and emissions reductions in diesel engines,” said Congressman Burgess. "The Diesel Technology Forum was an excellent opportunity to speak directly to the industries on the cutting edge of progress and I am excited about the future of clean diesel technology." Please also visit the following websites to find out more about the companies mentioned above: www.dieselforum.org www.cumminspower.com www.peterbilt.comCongressman Burgess visits with Cummins Inc. representatives Stephen L. May and Dave J. Crompton at the House Clean Diesel Reception
11.13.2007	Congressman Burgess releases statement on Oversight and Investigations subcommittee hearing Today the House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held the fourth in a series of five hearings addressing the Food and Drug Administration’s ability to assure the safety and security of the nation’s food supply. Congressman Michael Burgess (R-Lewisville), a member of the subcommittee, released the following statement: “It’s become apparent that our federal agencies that are tasked with keeping Americans safe from harmful foods and products are often using 20th century tools when dealing with 21st Century problems. “Although the change we can attribute to globalization did happen quickly, it did not happen overnight. It is now up to Congress to absolve itself for not maintaining situational awareness. I believe that Congress needs to step up and give the FDA the resources and authorities they need to keep Americans safe. This series of hearings on the FDA’s ability to assure the safety and security of the nation’s food supply will help us do just that.” Of note: On October 25, 2007, Congressman Burgess introduced H.R. 3967, The Imported Food Safety Improvement Act of 2007. This legislation would allow the FDA to embargo a specific food from a specific country if there were repeated instances of that food being found contaminated when it arrived in the United States. H.R. 3967 has been referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. “I firmly believe that the FDA needs the ability and explicit authority to immediately stop dangerous foods from coming into this country. This bill would give the FDA the tools to do just that. I think of it like this: goods are coming into this country on a conveyor belt, and when we find a bad apple on that belt, the FDA needs to be able to push a big red button and immediately stop the apple from continuing into the line of commerce.” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., is a Republican who was a doctor for 25 years in North Texas before coming to Washington, DC to represent the 26th District of Texas. He serves on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and four subcommittees of that committee: Oversight and Investigations, Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, Health, and Energy and Air Quality. He is also the Vice Chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee. ### Congressman Burgess' Opening Statement: Thank you Chairman Stupak and Ranking Member Whitfield. I thank the leadership of this committee for holding a series of hearings on the FDA’s ability to assure the safety and security of the nation’s food supply. Throughout the hearings, I feel that we’ve been able to shed some light on some real problems affecting our food supply here in this country. I also think we’ve been able to identify perhaps some real solutions. It’s become apparent that our federal agencies that are tasked with helping keep Americans safe from harmful foods and harmful products are using 19th or 20th Century tools when dealing with a 21st Century problem. However, the FDA does not shoulder all of the blame in this situation. Somehow, Congress failed to intuit and recognize that the rapid change that was going to be incurred by globalization, living in the global village. There are multiple points to which we can affix responsibility, but it would be sheer fantasy to believe that Congress does not own its own share of the responsibility. Although the change that we can attribute to globalization did not happen quickly, it did not happen overnight. It is now up to Congress to absolve itself for not maintaining situational awareness. I believe that Congress does need to step up and give the FDA the resources and authorities they need to keep Americans safe. This series of hearings on the FDA’s ability to assure the safety and security of the nation’s food supply will help us do just that. For instance, during a hearing this summer, we learned that the FDA lacks the ability and the explicit authority to immediately stop dangerous foods and products from coming into this country. For that reason, I introduced H.R. 3967, The Imported Food Safety Improvement Act of 2007, to stop countries - to stop countries from sending harmful food and products into the United States. H.R. 3967 will allow us to finally take control of the food that is being sent to America. It would also send a strong message to countries that in the past have allowed harmful products entry into our stream of commerce. So, when it comes to food safety, I feel just as strongly as many of us profess to feel about terrorism on a broader scale. We need to say to other countries, you’re either with us, or against us. Solve the problem on your end, or we’ll take measures to solve the problem on ours. A review of the hearing timeline clearly shows that this legislation came about through an important series of hearings. I continue to believe in the mission we are trying to accomplish today. However, while I realize that today we are only focusing on one single form of food technology—that is the use of low oxygen in meat packing—I do wish we would have observed adherence to the original plan of holding a hearing that focused on a variety of technologies aiming at keeping our food safe. Considering the enormity of the problems we are facing in food safety, I found the scope of today’s hearing to be very narrow in its focus. In fact, it is so narrow that it limits the utility of what we should be about. Today’s hearing involves a controversy about the use of carbon monoxide in a modified atmosphere packaging in meat. Fair enough. Industry is responding to demands and is moving much faster than Congress can in this regard, and the controversy is rapidly being addressed by efforts – in the marketplace and to some degree in response to letters from the Majority. I do appreciate the efforts of the Majority detailing this to the principal players of the industry. I would be very interested to know if the changes being contemplated in the industry are a result of rigorous scientific investigation. I hope they are not merely a capitulation to the demands of the Majority and their staff. The Majority can be commended for making this a disappearing oversight problem IF what they did was shine a bright light on a real problem. But again, I do wonder, Mr. Chairman, if we have this response as a result of rigorous scientific investigation and sound science. Mr. Chairman, very briefly, we’ve heard from the majority staff about a trip they took to China. I took a trip to China in 1993 with the Association of Aerospace Physicians. Let me tell you, I gained a new appreciation for modern American packaging, and cellophane during that trip. One afternoon I took a side trip and walked through what was the equivalent of a Beijing Safeway. It was there I learned that modern American innovation was indeed a wonderful thing. In China, they had meat out in the open, well let’s be honest, they had live snakes in bins, and you don’t normally see those in the Safeway, even here in DC. But they had meat out in the open, no covering, rendering it pretty unappetizing because of the smell, and the site of flies, and the overall color. So, flies, discoloration, olfactory assaults were enough to make even the most ravenous appetite vanish. Mr. Chairman, if you are correct about the use of low oxygen being deceptive, then you are to be commended for making this a disappearing oversight problem. However, I would also like to commend Hormel for trying to make their product better by finding a way to address the issue of long-term color change through new interventions. In Mr. Ettinger’s testimony, he mentions that his company has filed a patent on this new technology, so I look forward to hearing more about the technology and how it may remove some of the concerns that the use of the carbon monoxide may be deceptive. I also look forward to the discussion with the FDA regarding the “Generally Recognized As Safe” determination. I recognize that the Majority Leadership of this Subcommittee is concerned that this process does not include or review a comment period. I would just briefly point out that it was not during this administration but the previous administration that this decision was made, apparently the Clinton Administration did not have a problem that there was no review or comment period allowed. Again, thank you Mr. Chairman for holding this hearing, but I also hope that we continue to hold hearings on a broader array of topics within the entire context of food safety, and I’ll yield back the balance of my time.
11.08.2007	Lewisville, TX – Today U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville), although he was unable to attend the event due to the voting schedule of the House of Representatives, recognized the five veterans who received this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC was created three years ago to honor the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District. This year’s commendations were presented at the fifth annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored by the Highland Village Business Association and the City of Highland Village. The five recipients of this year’s Congressional Veteran Commendation are Walter Dyer of Highland Village, Susanne Hechinger of Flower Mound, James Mariades of Copper Canyon, William Springfield of Flower Mound, and Edward Weir of Denton. “These extraordinary individuals were honored for their patriotic, dedicated service in the Armed Forces of the United States and continued beneficial service to their communities,” said Rep. Burgess. “They have not only served in our armed forces but have also continued their dedication to the nation by working tirelessly on behalf of their fellow veterans and serving the people of their communities.” Gen. Charlie Hamm, who chaired the Congressional Veteran Commendation Review Board and was a past recipient, presented this year’s commendations on behalf of Congressman Burgess. Other members of the Review Board and past recipients as well are Johnnie Bulen, Reby Cary, Thomas Blagg, Woodrow Wilson Burch and Ivan Glasscock In addition to recognizing this year’s Congressional Veterans Commendation recipients, Rep. Burgess presented former Highland Village Mayor Lawrence with his father’s Congressional Gold Medal for his father’s service with the Tuskegee Airman. Rep. Burgess also presented the Purple Heart Medal to U.S. Army SPC Robbie Strauch of Flower Mound in recognition of the wounds he sustained in Iraq while serving as a member of the 172nd Stryker Brigade Combat Team. “Thank you again to all the veterans for your service to the United State of America,” said Rep. Burgess. “On behalf of the citizens of the 26th District and of a grateful nation, we are forever in your debt.” ###
11.08.2007	Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville) introduced H.R. 4116, the Veterans Healthcare Stamp Act of 2007, which aims at improving funding for programs that provide healthcare for veterans. “Like most of you, I feel strongly about those who voluntarily dedicated their lives to the protection of our freedoms,” said Rep. Burgess. “The purpose of this legislation is to provide the American public with an individual opportunity to supplement the cost of providing healthcare for men and women who have served their country honorably through military service. With this legislation we can join together to give back to those who have given so much.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum, a Democrat from Minnesota, is signed on as an original co-sponsor of the act. Under the bi-partisan act, the optional first-class stamp will be available for a slightly higher cost than the first-class rate. The additional funds raised through the purchase of this stamp would be sent to a program within the Department of Veterans Affairs dedicated to increasing veteran’s access to healthcare. “The Veterans Healthcare Stamp Act is built upon the notion that Americans are proud, considerate, and companionate people and when they are given the opportunity they will support our nation’s veterans,” said Rep. Burgess. “This bill gives each American the opportunity to directly support America’s bravest men and women.” ###
11.08.2007	Following the announcement by the Consumer Product Safety Commission of the most recent recall of the children's toy "Aqua Dots," Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-TX) released the following statement: "It is distressing to once again hear of yet another toy manufactured in China that has caused serious harm to children. The latest toy recall of Aqua Dots due to poisonous glue is yet another example of the lack of care taken by China in manufacturing products that are then shipped all over the world. "I am extremely disturbed by this ongoing problem. I strive daily as a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, specifically the Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, the Oversight and Investigations, and the Health subcommittees, to resolve this serious problem. "I am not clear how these dangerous ingredients, the same ingredients commonly used in known date rape drugs, ended up in children's toys, but I am clear on one thing: time after time these toys have come from the People's Republic of China, and now is the time for that to stop. With Christmas just around the corner, Americans should not have to second-guess the safety of the toys they purchase for their children." Over the last few months, Congressman Burgess has become more and more concerned with the growing number of consumer product and food recalls, with the majority of the recalled products coming from the People's Republic of China. Congressman Burgess has been in the forefront of developing more effective and efficient ways to ensure that these harmful products do not enter America's commerce. He serves on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, specifically the Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, the Oversight and Investigations, and the Health subcommittees, which have jurisdiction over food and product safety issues. Recently, Congressman Burgess introduced H.R. 3967, the Imported Food Safety Improvement Act of 2007. To view the lastest consumer product recalls, please visit www.cpsc.gov
10.30.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Lauren BeanTuesday, October 30, 2007 Lauren.Bean@mail.house.gov BURGESS NAMES AREA LEADERS TO SERVICE ACADEMY BOARD LEWISVILLE, TX – U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) announced today members of his 2007 Service Academy Advisory Board. The thirteen-member board will meet in early November to advise him upon the selection of qualified service academy candidates. The board’s purpose is to comprehensively screen and interview high school and college applicants wishing to receive a congressional nomination; the board then makes recommendations to Congressman Burgess for final review and nominations are sent to the individual service academies (U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY) for appointment consideration. “One of the privileges I have serving in the U.S. House of Representatives is the opportunity to nominate outstanding young people from the 26th District to our nation’s service academies,” Congressman Michael C. Burgess said. “We have an excellent group of former military, education and civic leaders serving on the Advisory Board. In this tumultuous time in our nation’s history, many young people in our area have expressed their interest in serving their country by attending one of our nation’s service academies. After a rigorous selection process, I look forward to receiving the recommendations of this outstanding board.” Retired Air Force Lt. General Charles R. Hamm serves as Chairman of the Board. Congressman Burgess noted, “General Hamm’s highly regarded service as the former Superintendent of the U.S. Air Force Academy enables him to capably lead the Board.” “I know how serious Congressman Burgess takes his responsibility to nominate highly qualified young people to the academies, and I look forward to serving with this distinguished board to recommend the right people to him for consideration,” said General Hamm. The members of the 26th Congressional District Service Academy Advisory Board are as follows: 26th Congressional District Service Academy Advisory Board Chairman: Lt. General Charles R. Hamm, U.S. Air Force (Ret.) of Argyle – Aviation Consultant Former Superintendent - U.S. Air Force Academy; 35 years service in USAF National War College, 1972; Air Command and Staff College, 1969 M.S., Auburn University, 1969; B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1956 Army Mr. Gene Collett of Flower Mound – Director of Compliance, ThinkCash Former Academy Board Member, U.S. Cong. Eric Cantor (VA-7) Captain, U.S. Army Parachutist and Pilot MBA, University of Texas, Austin, 1989 B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1982 Mr. Thomas Russell of Flower Mound – Aerospace Consultant Captain, U.S. Army Infantry Officer, Airborne Ranger B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1963 Navy Mr. J. Mark Lambright of Flower Mound - CEO, HealthPoints, Inc. MBA, The Wharton School, University of Penn, 1983 B.S., U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD, 1975 Mr. Peter Stamps, Captain, USNR, of Fort Worth - Quality Assurance Manager, Southern Area, Hanson Pipe & Precast, Inc. Former Academy Board Member, Sen. Rod Grams of Minnesota MBA, University of Phoenix, 1999 B.S., Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD, 1985 Air Force Dr. Peter Lane of Denton - Visiting Lecturer in History, UNT, (Ret.) Former Academy Board Member, U.S. Cong. Dick Armey Col., U.S. Air Force, (Ret.) Ph.D., 1972 & M.A., 1969, University of Washington-Seattle B.S., U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Spring, CO, 1961 Merchant Marine Mr. Peter Strohla of Frisco - Horizon Lines, Director of Refrigerated Commodities MBA, University of Tennessee, 2003 B.S., U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY, 1985 Lt Will Hagan of Flower Mound – U.S. Navy Aviator (Pilot) and Engineering Duty Officer (Salvage Diving Officer) Masters in Naval Engineering & Systems Design Management, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, (expected 2008) B.S., U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY, 1999 Community Mrs. Elaine Emery of Lewisville - Small Business Owner/Community Volunteer Medical Center of Lewisville Board of Trustees; Denton Co. Health Advisory Board; Children’s Advocacy Center of Denton Co. Board of Directors Christian Community Action Board of Directors B.S., University of Oklahoma, 1968 Mr. Earl L. Russell, III of Gainesville – Retired/Community Volunteer North Texas Medical Center Trustee; City of Gainesville Municipal Airport Advisory Board Major, U.S. Army Reserve, (Ret.) Graduate, Army Command and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, KS B.A., Kansas State University, 1966 Mr. Richard Walker of North Richland Hills – Senior Business Analyst, Commercial and Support Services, Bell Helicopter State Vice President for Industrial Relations and Past Fort Worth Chapter President, Air Force Association B.S., Oklahoma State University, 1982 Education Maj. General Mary Saunders, USAF, (Ret.) of Denton, Executive Director, Texas Woman’s University Leadership Institute Former Vice Director, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA); Fort Belvoir, VA; 34 years of service, USAF Graduate, Air War College, Maxwell Air Force Base, Al M.A., Rider University, Lawrenceville, NJ; B.S., Texas Woman's University, 1970 Dr. Richard Wells, Rear Admiral, USN, (Ret.) of Denton - Professor, Department of Journalism, University of North Texas; Faculty, Center for Civil-Military Relations, Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, California Former President and Superintendent, Naval Postgraduate School Special Assistant to U.S. Navy Chief of Information Ph.D., Texas A&M University; M.J. & B.S., University of North Texas ###
10.27.2007	Submitted by Parker L., a Home School Junior from Valley View: In its second year of existence, the Congressional Youth Advisory Council’s (CYAC) first meeting of the 2007-08 school year was held at the North Richland Hills City Hall on Saturday, October 27, 2007. The discussion topic was intergovernmental relations and relayed to the attending students by elected officials representing federal, state and local government who must day-by-day stay in touch with other leaders to mutually serve their communities and constituencies. The knowledgeable panel of public servants included: U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26); Representative Kelly Hancock, Texas House District 91; Glen Whitley, Tarrant County Judge; Bobbie Mitchell, Denton County Commissioner Precinct 3; Gary Hollowell, Commissioner Cooke County Precinct 1; and the host, Oscar Trevino, Mayor, City of North Richland Hills. Forty junior and senior high school students, who were nominated by the principals of their schools, attended the meeting and interacted with the government panel, posing questions related to their roles of elected officials. Youth attending represented high schools from all over the 26th congressional district, including public, private, and home schools. The goal of the CYAC is to provide the means by which students can learn how government works, the challenges public servants face each day, and to inform students how they can serve their community now and in the future. It’s a one-on-one environment designed specifically for youth to ask questions and receive answers directly from those who know. There will be three more CYAC meetings this school year, each one covering a different subject matter. At the left, please click on the student's name to read their report.
10.26.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Lauren BeanFriday, October 26, 2007 Lauren.Bean@mail.house.gov Congressman Burgess introduces legislation aimed at increasing FDA’s authority to stop harmful food imports Washington, DC – Yesterday Congressman Michael Burgess (R-Lewisville) introduced a bill which would give the FDA authority to require foreign countries to take more responsibility for the foods they send to the United States. H.R. 3967, The Imported Food Safety Improvement Act of 2007, would allow the FDA to embargo a specific food from a specific country if there were repeated instances of that food being found contaminated when it arrived in the United States. “I firmly believe that the FDA needs the ability and explicit authority to immediately stop dangerous foods from coming into this country,” said Rep. Burgess. “This bill would give the FDA the tools to do just that. I am also currently working with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission to see what tools they need to stop dangerous consumer products from entering this country.” H.R. 3967 would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to refuse admission of imported foods from a specified country, growing area, producer, manufacturer or shipper. “I think of it like this: goods are coming into this country on a conveyor belt, and when we find a bad apple on that belt, the FDA needs to be able to push a big red button and immediately stop the apple from continuing into the line of commerce.” The Imported Food Safety Improvement Act would give the FDA that big red button to push. The FDA would now have the explicit authority they currently do not have to embargo a specified food from a specified country if there were repeated instances in which the type of food or product had been contaminated. “We must be able to stop countries from sending harmful food products to the United States,” said Rep. Burgess. “This bill will allow us to take control of the food that is being sent to America.” ###
10.25.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Lauren BeanThursday, October 25, 2007 Lauren.Bean@mail.house.gov House votes on “revised” SCHIP bill, sends to President Bush without veto-proof vote Washington, DC – Last night Democrat leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives announced just before 8:00 p.m. EST that the revised SCHIP bill, H.R. 3963, would be brought to the floor of the House for a vote Thursday. “The Deomcrats’ new bill still fails to address the most important flaw we saw in the last bill – it fails to provide insurance for poor kids first,” said Rep. Michael Burgess (R-Lewisville). “We have a new bill number, but not much else is different. They may call it a ‘revised’ version, but that is not true. This is the same weak legislation that I voted against the first time and I voted against it again today.” H.R. 3963, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, was passed by a vote of 265 Yeas to 142 Nays (Roll No. 1009). This does not meet the two-thirds requirement needed to secure a veto-proof vote, allowing President Bush the option of vetoing the bill. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office announced that the revised SCHIP bill, just like the first SCHIP bill, will move roughly two million children who are already covered under private health insurance to the publicly-funded insurance under SCHIP. Additionally, the bill continues to blur the citizenship document requirement, making it easier for those in the US illegally to qualify for SCHIP. “The last SCHIP bill failed to be signed into law because it expanded eligibility to adults, those in our country illegally, and children who are already covered under private health insurance,” said Rep. Burgess. “I do not know why the Democrats think this almost-identical bill will work the second time around. My priority is to cover America’ poorest kids first. Clearly this view is not shared by the Democrats.” Further controversy rises because this bill was introduced in the midst of a natural disaster twice the scale of Katrina in California, with many California members currently back in their districts with their constituents and unable to vote on the SCHIP bill. Over 1 million Californians have been evacuated from their homes, and much of the debate on the House floor today focused on Democrats’ motives for deciding on today to vote on this bill, with many California members back in their district aiding their constituents. “I extend my condolences to the people of California as they deal with this unthinkable disaster,” said Congressman Burgess. “First and foremost, the residents of California dealing with the wildfires must be kept in our thoughts and prayers during this difficult time.” Additionally, Democrats handed the bill to members for review late last night, less than 24 hours before the vote on SCHIP was scheduled to occur, giving members less than 24 hours to review the 293-page bill. This is after Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi announced early in the 110th session that at least 24 hours must be allowed to examine a bill before floor debate will be allowed. The bill was also considered under a closed rule, meaning no Republican amendments were to be allowed. According to Minority Whip Roy Blunt’s office, today’s closed rule vote is the 40th time this Congress that Democrats have systematically shut out Republicans from the process. Republicans, because of this closed rule vote, were denied today the opportunity to offer amendments designed to ensure poor kids are covered before SCHIP is extended to more adults, more wealthy families and more of those in the United States illegally. “Despite the rhetoric, the program will continue as long as Congress wants it to continue, whether it is reauthorized today or closer to November 16th, the day the current extension expires,” said Congressman Burgess. "I cannot think that any Speaker of the House would be so insensitive as to allow this program to expire." ###
10.24.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Lauren BeanWednesday, October 24, 2007 Lauren.Bean@mail.house.gov Congressman Burgess says third annual Renaissance Communities Economic Development Summit is a success Washington, DC – For the third consecutive year, Congressman Michael Burgess (R-Lewisville) hosted an economic development event aimed at focusing efforts towards revitalizing the Southeast Tarrant County communities in the 26th Congressional District of Texas. Co-hosted by Public Forum Institute (PFI), this year’s event was widely-attended by area elected officials, business leaders, and concerned citizens all with the same goal in mind: re-development of the “Renaissance Communities.” “In 2004, when these communities were added to the 26th District as a result of redistricting, I made contact with the City of Fort Worth to better understand the area,” said Congressman Burgess. “The Mayor, City Council Members and I loaded onto a bus and I received a first-hand view.” “Coming from a district composed primarily of established suburbs in Northeast Tarrant County and the fast-growth suburbs of Denton and Collin Counties, it was almost overwhelming to see the challenges that existed in these urban communities that had obviously been forgotten for decades as the surrounding communities flourished.” Elected officials attending the two-day event included Congressman Michael Burgess, State Senator Kim Brimer, State Representative Marc Veasey, Mayor Moncrief, Fort Worth Councilmen Frank Moss and Danny Scarth, and Tarrant County Commissioner Roy Brooks. Highlights from this year’s Summit include presentations and discussions focused on: Transportation Workforce development through business and education Comprehensive economic development Ways to attract residential and commercial investment in the area The importance of a skilled workforce Greater investments in the education sector The two-day event included a Federal Job Fair on Friday, September 21, 2007, which was open to the public, as well as a Faith-Based and Community Organization Workshop, also on Friday and also open to the public. The first Summit was held in Congressman Burgess’ first year of representing this new addition to the 26th District in 2005 as he sought a means to address the significant gap between the growth rates in certain areas of his district. Recognizing the problem was only the first step, though, and striving to come up with alternative methods of dealing with these issues brought to life the idea of an economic development summit. Past Summits have helped recognize problems in the areas of education, employment and economic development in the Southeast Tarrant County Renaissance Communities. In the past three years, projects initiated have included: More than 70 new homes in Sierra Vista Plans for neighborhood community revitalization projects such as the Fort Worth Urban Villages, including Poly/Wesleyan, Oakland Corners, Stop Six and others The recent announcement of the 240,000 sq. ft. Veterans Affairs Clinic to be built on the Tarrant County Resource Connection property. Congressman Burgess also continues to work closely with the county to address the health challenges unique to the area and to secure funds for at least one new federally-funded clinic in Southeast Fort Worth. Challenges lie in continuing to draw attention to this area and its needs. Obstacles expect to be met along the way, but partnerships with others to ensure that the improvements are long-lasting and sustainable are a key component to success, according to Congressman Burgess. Congressman Burgess has been involved in meetings with educators that have identified shortfalls that exist, but have also identified ways that to help overcome these challenges. One example involves using creative solutions targeted at bringing an Advanced Technology Center to the youth of the Renaissance Communities. “Through these efforts, the communities are making progress to stabilize an environment where families and businesses can take root, grow and thrive. It hasn't been an easy process,” said Congressman Burgess. “But I am acutely aware that if it was easy it would have already been accomplished and in the relatively short period of time I'm encouraged by the initial steps.” “They are slow relative to the expectations in other parts of my district, but will likely have an even greater meaning to these communities who have watched decades pass with little progress.” To view the full Summary Report put together by PFI, including a list of special guests and keynote speakers and a full list of the event’s sponsors, visit their website at http://www.publicforuminstitute.org/. ###
10.18.2007	The Department of Energy's Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy hosted the third Solar Decathlon on the National Mall October 12-20, 2007. Thursday, October 18, 2007, Congressman Michael Burgess toured the Solar Village and visited the University of Texas and Texas A&M University solar homes on display there. The Solar Decathlon began in 2002 to encourage university students to work with industry professionals and faculty specialists to design, construct, transport, and monitor solar powered homes. Every two years, 20 teams are invited to display their designs in Washington, D.C. and to compete in 10 contests from architectural design to market viability and appliance efficiency. The University of Texas and Texas A&M University were among the 20 international teams involved in this year's competition. "What an outstanding opportunity to display the talented minds from the state of Texas," said Congressman Burgess. "The sooner we can get these young, talented students professionally trained and out into the world of solar power and energy efficiency the better off we will all be. We've got plenty of sun, and a vital need to conserve energy and water, so I'm extremely excited about the work being done at these institutions." The two teams from Texas packed up their homes and headed by flatbed truck to the Solar Village site before the competition. The students then had just a matter of hours to put the homes together and display them for competition. The University of Texas team, building upon their past experience, decided on a one piece design to limit the leaks that contribute to energy loss. The Texas A&M University team calls their design the "groHome" building system, which allows the homeowner or business operator to modify the space to meet their specific needs while maintaining energy efficiency. The teams competed in daily events and opened up their homes to over 100,000 visitors. When the final competition closed on Saturday, October 20, the overall first place award went to Technische Universität Darmstadt from Germany. The University of Texas and Texas A&M University teams had strong showings and plan to return for competition in the future. "I want to thank the Texas teams for all their hard work and encourage them to continue to pursue their goals,” said Congressman Burgess. “When they return to class, I want them to empower their fellow students with the designs and concepts they experienced while they were in our Nation's Capital. They are the future of solar power and energy efficiency and hold the promise for advancement in innovation and design." Today Rep. Michael Burgess met with the University of Texas and the Texas A&M Solar Decathlon teams who were visiting Washington, DC for the competition.To see pictures of the visit, please visit the "Photo Gallery" section of the website.Texas A&M University Solar Decathlon TeamUniversity of Texas' Solar Decathlon Team
10.18.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, October 18, 2007 Contact: Lauren BeanLauren.Bean@mail.house.gov Denton County Receives $1.56 billion for Future Road Projects Lewisville, TX – Last Thursday, October 11, 2007, the Regional Transportation Council (RTC) held their monthly transportation meeting. Among other items on the agenda, the RTC made recommendations on the distribution of proceeds from the State Highway 121 (S.H. 121) toll road. Denton County will receive approximately 53 percent of the revenue generated by S.H. 121, or roughly $1.56 billion. “The Texas Department of Transportation has provided clear and well-documented evidence that as early as next year, Texas will only have maintenance funds available and that no funds will be available for new construction,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. “Our transportation system is vital to the quality of life of North Texans, and we must continue to seek innovative funding methods to keep up with the ever- increasing demands on our infrastructure.” Of the more than $1.56 billion that will go directly to Denton County for their roads, $659.5 million will be used for projects that were previously selected under the S.H. 121 Memorandum of Understanding. This was developed when the region decided to make the new construction on S.H. 121 a toll road-supported instead of a gas tax-supported facility. Additionally, $41.15 million of the revenue will go towards the cost of constructing S.H. 121, leaving a total of $859.43 million for new roads in Denton County. Final decisions on how to spend the money is expected by January 24, 2008. Until then, County officials will hold County Workshops in November and December to determine which projects to select within their County. “This region, like the rest of the nation, is facing a tremendous shortfall in transportation funding,” said Michael Morris, director of transportation of the North Central Texas Council of Governments. “This agreement for S.H. 121, especially the upfront payment of $2.5 billion, will mean freeway, thoroughfare, passenger rail and air quality projects can be built years ahead of schedule. Helping to keep up with the tremendous growth and transportation needs of the region is a high priority.” ###
10.18.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, October 18, 2007 Contact: Lauren BeanLauren.Bean@mail.house.gov Congressman Burgess Votes Against SCHIP Veto Override, says Congress needs to produce a bill that would “cover poor children first” Washington, DC – Today the United States House of Representatives voted against overriding President Bush’s October 3, 2007 veto of H.R. 976, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, (R-Flower Mound), along with 155 of his colleagues, voted against the veto override. “I favor the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program,” said Congressman Burgess. “I want to see that program reauthorized, but I want to see it done sensibly. It is critical to focus on the most important recipients - poor kids first.” Under H.R. 976, eligibility for government-funded health care would be expanded to populations other than just poor children, including children currently covered with private health insurance, adults, and those in the country illegally. Congressman Burgess believes SCHIP eligibility should not be extended to these populations because it is robbing poor children of the health care coverage they deserve. “I do not believe that the bill Congress sent to President Bush is the right bill for America’s children, which is why I originally voted against it and why I voted against the veto override today. It is now time to put partisan politics aside and go to work to establish a sound health insurance program for low-income children.” A Gallup poll in the October 15, 2007 edition of USA Today showed that Americans in fact agree with Congressman Burgess and President Bush that poor children should be covered first. “A poll out just this week from USA Today shows a majority, over 50 percent of the people in this country, agree that poor children should be covered first,” said Congressman Burgess. “It's a fairly simple concept. And guess what? The American people get it. That's what they want to see us do, cover poor children first.” With the SCHIP reauthorization extension set to expire on November 16, 2007, Congress must now work to produce a bill that reauthorizes SCHIP before adjournment of the 110th Congress. Otherwise, millions of children whose parents cannot afford private health insurance will be at risk of losing their health coverage under SCHIP. “We can't cover those other populations at the expense of the people that we are required to take care of - children. Finding more of the truly eligible children is hard work, it is hard work but it is the right thing to do. Hard work first, it is the right thing to do.” Tuesday night Congressman Burgess delivered a 50-minute speech outlining the problems with the current SCHIP bill and suggesting ways that Congress could work together to construct a bill that puts poor children first. To view a complete transcript of this speech and to watch the video of the House floor, please visit Congressman Burgess’ website at /News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=76535. ###
09.27.2007	House Republican Policy Committee Vice Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) presents his “Addressing America’s Health Care Challenge” paper. The attached document covers the leading conservative principles of a Republican health care reform plan. For more information, contact Josh Martin, Legislative Director, in the Office of Congressman Burgess.
09.27.2007	Today Republican members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi expressing their displeasure in the proceedings leading up to Tuesday's House vote on the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP).
09.27.2007	The following link will take you to the Committee on Energy and Commerce markup of:H.R. 20, the "Melanie Blocker-Stokes Postpartum Depression Research and Care Act", amended;H.R. 2295, the "ALS Registry Act", amended;H.R. 507, the "Vision Care for Kids Act of 2007", amended;H.R. 1727, the "Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act";H.R. 970, the "Dextromethorphan Distribution Act of 2007";H.R. 814, the "Children’s Gasoline Burn Prevention Act", amended;H.R. 1699, the "Danny Keysar Child Product Safety Notification Act", amended;H.R. 2474, the "Product Safety Civil Penalties Improvement Act"; andH.R. 1721, the "Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act", amended. Read the Committee Action Sheet View the Archived Webcast or DownloadOn the "archived webcast" you can view a debate on partisanship between Chairman Dingell and Congressman Burgess. This debate begins at 35 minutes into the program and lasts until about 42 minutes.
09.25.2007	The following statement may be attributed to U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) after voting on H.R. 976, State Children’s Health Insurance Program. “I support the reauthorization of SCHIP, but the bill brought forward late last night is a misnomer. It may be called the State Children’s Health Insurance Program, but it isn’t really about children. While I introduced a stand alone bill to remove all adults from coverage under SCHIP, last night’s bill still allows adults coverage. They can call it a phase out plan, but the fact is, every dollar spent on an adult is a dollar not spent on a child. I voted against the bill. “There are 800,000 children, eligible for SCHIP that are currently not enrolled. I believe we must locate those children, and assist them first, before we expand a program to cover middle-class children and adults. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that 2 million children will be “crowded-out” of their current private insurance coverage and will be enrolled into a government-run, taxpayer funded program. It isn’t necessary. Locate the eligible SCHIP children out there now and cover them. “In addition, the bill waters down the citizenship verification which, in effect, gives illegal aliens access to the SCHIP benefit on the taxpayer’s dime. Don’t expand and make the problem worse. “And last, we had the opportunity in this legislation to ensure access to health care for children by stabilizing the medical workforce. Yet, the bill is silent on this subject. Lack of any meaningful liability reform is a quiet killer.”
09.18.2007	Today, U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) greeted Texas members of Vets for Freedom a nonpartisan organization established by combat veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The group’s mission is to educate the American public about the importance of achieving success in these conflicts by applying our first-hand knowledge to issues of American strategy and tactics—namely “the surge” in Iraq. “These Veterans came to Washington to let Congress know that they have a vested interest in the outcome in Iraq,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “Although they are not as flamboyant as the anti-war groups, they bring with them the story of their hard work and dedication and the argument that their legacy remains in the balance of the decisions that come before this body.” Congressman Michael Burgess hosted the veterans in his Washington, DC office and was proud to introduce his new veterans legislative assistant, former Marine Corps Sergeant Matt Johnson who served in Operation Iraqi Freedom. Congressman Michael Burgess commented that, “Today’s meeting with Vets for Freedom shows that individual soldiers serve their country beyond the battlefield. They serve us as educators, businessmen, entrepreneurs and clearly, as advocates for what they believe will make America safe and stronger in the future.” Vets for Freedom were on Capitol Hill talking with members of both the House and Senate concerning the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan. Just last week, Congressman Burgess sat in during the joint Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committee hearing where General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker reported the successes and struggles in Iraq since the surge began in January. The report recommendations included withdraw of nearly 30,000 troops beginning at the end of September through mid-summer 2008. “I have come to Washington, DC for one purpose only, to express my great concern for the course we take at thus juncture in our history,” said J. Neill Wilkerson who served in America’s military for over 36 years and is a member of Vets for Freedom. “War has been declared again us, against western civilization. Ignoring that fact, and ignoring the recommendation that we not abandon this crucial conflict, would result in terrible consequences both here and abroad.” “It is in America’s best interest, and for that of the free world, that we be successful in Iraq,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “I’m grateful that Vets for Freedom is in Washington today explaining this important fact to Members of Congress.” The members of Vets for Freedom visiting with Congressman Michael Burgess and his staff were Robert Bookout, Matthew Hale, Jeff Crenshaw, Van Taylor, James Crabtree, Robert White, Edward Han, Brain Yarger, Zeke Drawhorn, Mark Harvey, John Fraser, Knox Nunally, Neil Wilkerson, and Tom Ward. For more information on Vets for Freedom, visit their website at: http://www.vetsforfreedom.org/.
09.10.2007	The costs of medical litigation per person in the United States are far higher than in any other major industrialized nation in the world. Medical liability insurance costs have soared and the effect is evident with fewer students going into the medical community and seasoned professionals deciding on early retirement because staying in practice isn’t financially feasible. “Runaway lawsuits are literally changing the landscape of the American health care system,” said U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) upon the introduction of his national medical liability legislation, H.R. 3509, the Medical Justice Act. “When individuals abuse the right to bring a lawsuit, it harms the chances of those who are truly injured parties, depletes are medical field and undermines the American judicial system.” Some states have addressed this problem with varying degrees of reform, but unfortunately some states have been unable to improve their medical justice systems to benefit patients and doctors and not just trial attorneys. Congressman Burgess’ bill, based predominantly on the success of the “Texas Plan,” would provide a commonsense, national solution. In 2003, the Texas legislature brought together major health care stakeholders to develop a solution to the problems Texas faced with sky-rocketing medical lawsuits and a declining pool of medical professionals. Ultimately, the House and Senate, along with the citizens of the State of Texas, managed to design and a approve plan that would ultimately transform medical justice in the state. Instead of having a single $250,000 cap, there would be a $250,000 cap on non-economic damages as it pertains to physicians, hospitals, and to second hospitals or nursing homes, for an aggregate cap of $750,000. In 2006, only three years after passage, Medical Protective, one of the state’s largest medical liability insurance carriers, was able to provide policyholders with 10% rate cut which was its 4th reduction since April of 2005. Texas Medical Liability Trust, another major medical liability insurance carrier, declared an aggregate of 22 rate cut for its costumers. Texas is licensing an average of 400 more doctors per year than before the reform took place. “These are real numbers and significant process as we reach the 4 year anniversary of this new state law,” said Congressman Burgess. “More options mean better prices and a more secure setting for medical professionals to remain in practice. The Medical Justice Act would allow us to export this success to other states whose patients and medical communities are in true dire straits.” Probably one of the most important unintended beneficiaries of the Texas Plan was that small community not-for-profit hospitals, self-insured for medical liability, have been able to take money out of their escrow accounts and put it back to work for those hospitals. These small not-for-profit hospitals, dotting the countryside, could improve their infrastructures, pay nurse’s salaries, increase their information technology and generally improve the level of health care they provide the community. “We have an opportunity to make a paradigm shift in our approach to affordable health care,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “If we can make reforming medical liability a national priority, we can help patients and protect those in greatest need.
09.07.2007	Congressman Al Green (TX-09), today, joined by colleagues, Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) and Congressman John Culberson (TX-07), obtained 306 co-sponsors for H.R. 1154, which would award Texas medical legend, Dr. Michael E. DeBakey, with a Congressional Gold Medal. This bill was originally introduced on February 16, 2007 by Congressman Al Green, the original sponsor of the bill. A total of 290 member signatures are needed to release the bill from the Financial Services Committee and send it to the House floor. Joined by bill co-sponsors, Congressmen Burgess and Culberson, the trio of Texas Congressmen worked together to gain the necessary signatures and strong bi-partisan support of this bill. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, of Texas, passed related legislation, S. 474, in the Senate earlier this year, making way for the House to finally award Dr. DeBakey with Congress’ highest honor. At 99, Dr. DeBakey is still hard at work developing innovative devices and techniques to improve the quality of health care, especially with regards to heart disease. His wisdom has been sought by every U.S. President since Harry S. Truman. In 1964, he performed the first successful coronary bypass, a procedure that has become routine for millions of patients worldwide. His innovations in aneurismal surgery, carotid endarterectomy, and artificial hearts have saved the lives of patients across the globe. During his military service in the Surgeon General’s Office in World War II, he was instrumental in establishing the National Library of Medicine, the Mobile Army Surgical Hospitals (MASH units), and the Department of Veterans Affairs Hospital system. He has worked for many years with researchers at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to develop the miniaturized implantable DeBakey Left Ventricular Assist Device, which eliminates the need for heart transplantation in some patients. Congressman Al Green and Congressman Michael Burgess wished Dr. DeBakey a happy 99th birthday, via telephone from Washington, today. Upon hearing the news that the bill had surpassed the required 290 co-sponsors, Dr. DeBakey remarked, “I am so grateful that I am citizen of the United States”. “Dr. DeBakey truly is a living legend who has in some way touched all of our lives. He has operated on more than 60,000 patients in Houston alone, and has treated the very rich and the very poor, all with the same high standards of care and unwavering compassion. He has dedicated his life to saving the lives of others. This is why I dedicated myself to introducing this bill and working with my colleagues to award him the Congressional Gold Medal of Honor-- our nation's highest and most distinguished civilian award,” stated Congressman Al Green (TX-09). “I am honored to have this unique opportunity, as original sponsor of this bill, to wish Dr. DeBakey a very happy 99th birthday with news of its movement to the House floor. I thank him for the incredible impact he has made on the field of medicine, both here at home and abroad. I would also like to thank my colleagues, fellow Texas Congressmen, and co-sponsors of this bill, Michael Burgess and John Culberson for their continued dedication to honoring Dr. DeBakey.” “As a fellow physician, I have always been inspired by Dr. DeBakey’s amazing accomplishments,” said U.S Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26). “His pioneering efforts and dedication to the medical community over the decades has literally given life to thousands. I am honored that the House of Representatives recognizes his contributions to the health of all people, and I can think of no other day, his 99th birthday, to make this announcement.” "Dr. DeBakey is a living legend who has fought tirelessly against heart disease. He performed the first successful coronary bypass, which today is performed on a routine basis, saving millions of lives,” stated Congressman John Culberson (TX-07). “Today, on his 99th birthday, I give him a heartfelt thank you for all the extraordinary work he has done to improve medicine and our quality of life."
09.05.2007	The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26): “Unfortunately the trend seems to be continuing, and once again we are faced with five additional child product recalls that were manufactured in the People’s Republic of China. As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection, which has jurisdiction over this matter, I am extremely disturbed by this ongoing problem. While we have held some hearings regarding child product safety issues, we must be willing to address this specific issue regarding products from China.” “In July, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Oregon), and I sent a letter to the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation, urging the committee to conduct an investigation on the recall of Thomas the Train and other recalled products made in the People’s Republic of China. While this issue was briefly discussed in a following hearing, the committee has not conducted a thorough investigation regarding products manufactured in the People’s Republic of China. Congress has a duty to investigate this most troubling issue, and we must do everything within our power to keep our children safe. I will continue to urge the leadership of the committee to conduct an intense bipartisan investigation regarding the increasing consumer product recalls from the People’s Republic of China. Through the investigation, we should be able to formulate effective legislation which adequately addresses this issue and keeps our citizens safe from foreign products.” The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), in cooperation with Mattel, Inc., announced today five child product safety recalls. Parents are encouraged to immediately take the recalled toys away from children and may contact Mattel for a free replacement toy. For more information, see the CPSC’s website at www.cpsc.gov or contact Mattel toll free at (888) 597-6597 or visit the Mattel’s website at www.service.mattel.com. U.S. and Chinese Product Safety Agencies Announce Agreement To Improve The Safety of Imported Toys and Other Consumer Products
08.06.2007	Written for The Hill's Blog I feel compelled to educate both Members and the general public about mercury safety issues conspicuously missing from the so called energy bill. Sadly, the Rules Committee decided my amendment was not made in order. But I am not deterred from making certain my amendment language concerning the safety of compact fluorescent light bulbs is known. Why, you may ask is this an issue? Compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFL), admittedly energy efficient and cost effective, do carry a significant risk from mercury, about 5 milligrams per light bulb to be exact. Remember the old mercury thermometers that we all used to use but are no longer on the market? Well, CFLs are the new cause for concern. Luckily, the federal government is actually aware this is a problem, but they are taking their time to rectify the situation. My amendment deals with the timeline that is going to outlaw the incandescent bulb in this country by 2012. That means, for the current time, you will probably be using one of these light bulbs in your home. The problem comes when the light bulbs break. If and when they do, what does the Environmental Protection Agency recommend? It recommends you open the window and leave the room for 15 minutes. Then, put on rubber gloves and bag the broken pieces into two sealed zip-lock bags before you place them in an “outside” trashcan. And when you do vacuum the area, remove the vacuum bag, seal it in double plastic bags, and send it only to a landfill that accepts mercury. This is a pretty onerous burden to put upon the taxpayers of the United States. My largest concern is where these CFLs are in heavily populated and potentially compromised areas: a hospital nursery, a daycare center, a nursing home with non-ambulatory patients. If you break a compact fluorescent bulb in one of those locations, you are in for big trouble. Imagine the difficulty of attempting to remove 20 children from a nursery quickly and keep them away for 15 minutes. Most hospital nurseries that I worked in don't even have a window to open. So how are they going to comply with those EPA guidelines? The fact of the matter is my amendment would have had language that said: no nursery, hospital, or nursing home is compelled to use a compact fluorescent bulb where the population might be vulnerable to exposure. Unfortunately, the House Speaker and House leadership did not want that amendment made in order. Which reminds me, how many politicians does it take to change a light bulb?
08.03.2007	The following statement may be attributed to U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26): "North Texans saw injustice when the will of the people of Farmer’s Branch to stand up for their rights as citizens against illegal immigration was overridden by a federal court. Last night, Democratic tactics showed that they too care little for the true will of the American people. "After clearly losing a vote to deny federal funding to employ or house persons in the country illegally, the Democrats altered the outcome of the vote after the fact. The majority party’s leadership basically strong armed some of their most vulnerable members into switching their votes, one at least five times. This is unacceptable. To be pitted between serving your constituents and towing the line of your party is simply a sad state of affairs. It was deviant and devious behavior, and unbecoming of the U.S. House of Representatives. "Then this morning, in what can only be described as an Orwellian maneuver, there is suddenly no record that the vote exists. The Democrats removed all evidence of massive arm twisting and vote changing. For it is in times such as these I am thankful that C-SPAN captured the entire action in perpetuity. "What I fear most is the trend of this type of activity where the will of U.S. citizens is being taken from them. People in North Texas understand this is wrong – I hope the country is not further harmed by people more interested in power than doing the right thing. "Government is for the people and by the people. A government that believes itself above its people will suffer severely and be rejected." August 03, 2007Read More: Bad behavior House erupts in chaos In a massive flare-up of partisan tensions, Republicans walked out on a House vote late Thursday night to protest what they believed to be Democratic maneuvers to reverse an unfavorable outcome for them. The flap represents a complete breakdown in parliamentary procedure and an unprecedented low for the sometimes bitterly divided chamber. The rancor erupted shortly before 11 p.m. as Rep. Michael R. McNulty (D-N.Y.) gaveled close the vote on a standard procedural measure with the outcome still in doubt. Details remain fuzzy, but numerous Republicans argued afterward that they had secured a 215-213 win on their motion to bar undocumented immigrants from receiving any federal funds apportioned in the agricultural spending bill for employment or rental assistance. Democrats, however, argued the measure was deadlocked at 214-214 and failed, members and aides on both sides of the aisle said afterward. One GOP aide saw McNulty gavel the vote to a close after receiving a signal from his leaders – but before reading the official tally. And votes continued to shift even after he closed the roll call - a strange development in itself. Whatever the final tally, acrimony quickly exploded between lawmakers on either side of the aisle as Democratic leaders tried to plot a solution, while parliamentarians on either side argued over protocol. Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.) eventually offered a motion to reconsider, according to floor staff on either side, ostensibly giving members a chance to recast their votes. But the maneuver sparked a chorus of angry protests from the Republicans, yelling “shame” on Democrats, while they returned fire with angry volleys of their own. When Democrats finally moved to consider the spending bill as the last vote of the night, furious Republicans left the chamber en masse to protest the maneuver. The House eventually recessed at 11:18 p.m. But Republicans quickly discovered that there was no longer any record of the controversial vote and immediately charged Democrats with erasing the bad result. “Obviously, the Democrats don’t want to stand up against illegal immigration – so much so that they’re willing to cheat in order to win a vote,” Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.) said in an e-mail. “They’re desperate – and it shows.” The official House website did not show a record of the vote as of 1 a.m. Friday.
08.01.2007	U. S. Rep. Michael Burgess was pleased that his amendment to the H.R. 1721, The Pool and Spa Safety Act, was included during the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection mark-up on Capitol Hill today. The subcommittee was considering a series of bills aimed to enhance public safety and awareness on consumer products. In June of 2004, there was a tragic incident at an ornamental pool in Fort Worth, Texas, where three children and one adult drowned at the Fort Worth Water Gardens: Myron Dukes, 39; his daughter, Lauren, 8; his son, Christopher, 13; and family friend Juanitrice Deadmon, 11. One child accidentally fell into the ornamental pool, and the other three jumped in trying to save the child. Tragically, the water was unusually deep due to a recirculating pump malfunction and heavy rains. “My amendment was inspired by a tragic accident that occurred, and I hope that through this amendment, the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) will be able to educate cities on the unseen dangers hidden in ornamental pools,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. The Burgess amendment ensures a wider public education campaign to alert consumers to the safety hazards associated with ill-maintained ornamental pools. The bill, which requires the use of proper, anti-entrapment drain covers and drainage systems, establishes a swimming pool safety grant program to be administered by the CPSC. This legislation also encourages states to strengthen pool and spa safety laws and increase public education and outreach to consumers. “These amendments will strengthen existing laws by providing preventive measures, increasing penalties and greater public information and outreach that will assist parents and caregivers with products and recreational devices that can sometimes lead to tragic accidents or death,” stated Subcommittee Chairman Bobby L. Rush of Illinois in an official press release. While 36 states do have pool safety programs, not all of these states have an ornamental pool safety programs. Therefore, it is unlikely that they educate their constituency on the dangers that ornamental pools can present. “Ornamental pools often greatly enhance many communities, including the pools around the Capitol, but they can also pose a great threat to communities if the owners and operators are not educated on their danger,” said Congressman Burgess. “Awareness and education can save lives, and it is my hope that my amendment to this bill will do just that.”
07.17.2007	Thank you Chairman Stupak and Ranking Member Whitfield. With the ever increasing number of recalls, I continue to be extremely concerned with the safety and security of normal household products. While I remain confident that America has the safest food supply in the world, what I am more concerned about is the safety of imported goods, especially those from the Republic of China. My friend and colleague, Mr. Greg Walden, and I sent a letter to the Committee calling for an investigation regarding the many food and consumer product safety recalls from China. I continue to urge the leadership of this committee to fully examine this matter. Today, however, we are focusing on the FDA's duty to safeguard our food supply. While I am pleased that we have Dr. von Eschenbach and others with us today I still believe that they should have had the opportunity to appear before us at the last hearing. This committee has many questions for the FDA regarding a host of issues, including the reorganization efforts. I took look forward to discussing the need to reorganize; however, I also hope that an adequate amount of time is spent on discussing the FDA's role and responsibility for ensuring that our imported foods are safe for the citizens of this country. Mr. Chairman, unfortunately I will have to leave this hearing in a little while to go up the road to Walter Reed; however, I have made arrangements to be back here in time for the third panel. I sincerely apologize to the witnesses on the 1st and 2nd panel for my absence. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back the remainder of my time.
07.16.2007	North Texas consumers received a helping handful of energy efficiency tips this past Saturday at the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Summit and Fair hosted by U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess. Over 125 individuals packed the Gateway Center at the University of North Texas to hear energy experts discuss upcoming breakthroughs in energy research and to see a variety of consumer products and automobiles already available on the market today. “Most people recognize and want to be more energy efficient both for their wallets and for the environment,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “It boils down to a need to educate consumers about what energy efficient products and technologies are already available to improve the quality of life at home, in the office and on the road.” The event provided both a seminar and an exhibition hall with everything from new washer and driers to solar panels. The fair portion of the event included Wal-Mart, Denton County Transportation Authority (DCTA), Home Builders Association of Greater Dallas, Texas Agricultural Extension Service, Home Depot, Lowes, and many more. Outside of the Gateway Center, participants could stroll by hybrid vehicles from local car dealerships or view a clean-running commuter bus. Made in Denton, a mammoth, yet extremely energy efficient, Peterbilt truck was on display in a bright Kermit the Frog green. It was a favorite of photographers and consumers alike. On the dais, UNT President Dr. Gretchen Bataille, Congressman Michael Burgess and U.S. Deputy Secretary of Energy Clay Sell all discussed how energy efficiency impacts us on a daily basis but plays heavily into our national and global communities. Three panels continued the discussion on Existing Home Energy Conservation, New Home Construction, and Transportation issues and featured speakers from Green Built North Texas, Denton’s Biodiesel Industries, Inc., and Texas Home Energy Raters Organization among others. For complete coverage of the summit, and to review the presentations, please visit the website of Congressman Michael Burgess at www/house.gov/burgess. View coverage on Fox 4 News
07.09.2007	On Monday, Congressmen Michael Burgess was in Gainesville to announce the good news: an estimated $2.5 million dollars in housing assistance is now available to the six counties crippled by recent floodwaters. FEMA made the announcement Monday that money is available through registration at the recovery centers in Gainesville and Sherman. More than $1 million of those funds will go directly to Cooke County, especially the city of Gainesville, the hardest hit area. Currently more work is being done to secure the appropriations funding to fix the recurring flooding issues with Gainesville’s Pecan Creek. News story from KXII CBS News 12, ShermanAlso, the Texas Workforce Commission announced that workers in Cooke, Denton, \and Tarrant counties who have lost work or earnings due to the severe floods between June 16 and June 18, 2007 may be eligible for Disaster Unemployment Assistance. Please see attached document for eligibility information.
07.05.2007	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations from the community for the Congressional Veteran Commendation. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, has been created to honor the distinguished veterans of Texas’ Twenty-Sixth Congressional District and to preserve their stories for future generations of Americans. To nominate a veteran for the Congressional Veteran Commendation, please visit my website at www.house.gov/burgess to get more information and to obtain a nomination form. The completed nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, should be returned to my Lewisville office. The deadline for submitting nominations is September 10, 2007. Veterans who are nominated must be residents of the Twenty-Sixth District of Texas and have served our nation with honor consistent with the finest traditions of military service. An in-depth interview will be conducted with awardees and that interview will be forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection. For more information regarding the project, visit http://www.loc.gov/vets/. I will publicly recognize those individuals selected to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation on Thursday, November 8, 2007, at the fifth annual “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored yearly by the Highland Village Business Association. To obtain additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the Twenty-Sixth District of Texas, please contact my District Administrator, Robin Vaughan, at (972) 434-9700 or visit my website at www.house.gov/burgess.
06.29.2007	The following statement may be attributed to U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) on the disaster declaration for the massive floods in Texas: “Today’s disaster declaration is the rainbow after the flood. With this devastating flooding which caused loss of life and destruction of property, I mustered all of my resources at the federal level to help expedite disaster assistance. “Since I began representing Gainesville and Cooke County back in 2005, I have been working diligently to secure funding for Pecan Creek. When I heard the report about downpours and flash flooding in North Texas, I immediately called and began working in tandem with the city, state and federal officials to coordinate response efforts. “I spoke on various occasions with the Army Corps of Engineers, the Governor’s office, the Federal Emergency Management Administration and the White House. On Wednesday, June 27, I spoke directly with President Bush in the Oval Office concerning the situation and need for swift action. “Although a horrific natural disaster, it is my hope that today’s disaster declaration will prompt the speedy appropriations of federal funding necessary to complete the Pecan Creek project thus insuring this catastrophe is never repeated.” The following counties were included on the disaster declaration list from FEMA: Cooke, Coryell, Denton, Grayson, Lampasas, and Tarrant Counties
06.28.2007	The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26): The Senate version of Frankenstein’s monster has again been brought down by angry villagers. The monster of an immigration bill could not be resurrected with the 60 votes need to keep it alive. It was clear from the outset that this piece of legislation was greatly flawed. But despite this outcome, it is Congress’ job and duty to bring forth commonsense legislation to tackle the increasing illegal immigration problem afflicting our country. I do not believe in reinventing the wheel. We should be enforcing the laws already on the books like the Basic Pilot program which allows employers to verify the worker status of all new employees. With this program, employers can hire citizens or legal immigrants with confidence and reduce the incentive for workers to enter the country illegally. The U.S. House should lead. A bill should focus on border security measures based on principles like completing the fence, demanding English as the official language and the aforementioned employer verification program. The convoluted and “amnesty-light” bill brought forth in the Senate truly was D.O.A., and no bolt of lightening will jolt it back to life. I remain hopeful that the House steps up to the challenge.
06.27.2007	With over a hundred individuals present, U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) honored Byron Nelson by awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to Peggy Nelson on behalf of her dearly departed Byron. The event was held in the United States Capitol in the Sam Rayburn Room. Flanked by Rep. Burgess, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, Minority Leader John Boehner, Senator John Cornyn and Nelson family friend and Salesmanship Club of Dallas member Jon Bradley, Mrs. Nelson was full of humility, grace and humor as she gratefully accepted this honor for her husband. The formal program began with the U.S. Air Force Ceremonial Brass Quintet and the North Richland Hills Church of Christ Quartet, Byron and Peggy’s home church, singing the National Anthem. With additional praise and worship were individuals from EDS, the sponsors of the Byron Nelson Championship which has raised over $100,000 for underprivileged children for the Salesmanship Club of Dallas, and the PGA TOUR. While each presented gave memories and tributes to Byron Nelson, words of such as “gentleman, compassionate, loving, giving, educating” were used to describe the life and very being of Byron Nelson. Congressman Michael Burgess commented, “He was a philanthropist first and foremost. He devoted his life to the Lord, to his family and to helping others. Byron Nelson’s life is a model for a life well-lived.” On Thursday, Peggy Nelson and her family were welcomes to the White House to formerly meet with President George W. Bush. Since the American Revolution, Congress has taken part in a time honored tradition and has commissioned gold medals as the highest expression of national appreciation. Each medal represents and honors distinguished achievements and contributions to our country. The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4902, the bill to award Byron Nelson with a Congressional Gold Medal on May 10, 2006. The U.S. Senate passed the companion bill on September 27, 2006. President George W. Bush signed the bill into law awarding Byron Nelson the Congressional Gold Medal (P.L. 109-357).
06.19.2007	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) released the following statement on the Regional Transportation Council recommendation: “As the U.S. Representative for Denton County, the State Highway 121 toll road project greatly affects my district and my constituents. I am a frequent traveler of SH 121 and other roads in the area, and I firmly believe that in order to decrease congestion and pollution, we must continue to seek innovative methods to fund desperately needed roads in the area. “Regardless of the company that ultimately wins the bid, I believe that it is only fair to use to the funds on near neighbor/near time projects. The Regional Transportation Council made their recommendation to accept the bid offered by the North Texas Tollway Authority, and I look forward to hearing the Texas Transportation Commission’s final decision on June 28.”
06.15.2007	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced, and the House passed, the Secure Flight Offset Amendment to H.R. 2638 the fiscal year 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. The amendment passed 251-171. The full appropriations bill is still under debate on the House Floor. Important to the legislation is Congressman Burgess’ Secure Flight Offset Amendment which reduces the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Office of the Undersecretary for Management by $15 million and increases funding for the Transportation Threat Assessment Act by $15 million. The DHS Undersecretary for Management oversees the Audit Liaison Office at DHS. This Liaison Office helps to oversee the Department's efforts to coordinate with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and Office of Investigator General (OIG) and with DHS component agencies. The liaison officers have not been meeting the goal for which they were first funded – to keep agencies updates and avoid duplication, gaps and inefficiency. The liaison offices have not been successful in providing a centralized and coordinated process. “My goal was to reduce funding for this ineffective office,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “Part of being a Congressman is being willing to objectively assess what is working, and often not working, within our federal government and fix it.” The funding would be used by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to further the development of the passenger pre-screening program called “Secure Flight.” When fully implemented Secure Flight will be able to more effectively compare passenger information to information contained in the federal terrorist watch lists. Secure Flight will decrease the chance for compromised watch list data by centralizing use of comprehensive watch lists. Second, it will provide earlier identification of potential threats, allowing for expedited notification of law enforcement and threat management. And third, it will offer consistent application of an expedited and integrated redress process for passengers misidentified as a threat. “Secure Flight is a critical part of TSA’s overall strategy to secure the nation’s commercial air transportation system,” said Congressman Burgess. “The program deserves more money to be fully implemented as soon as possible.”
06.14.2007	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. is proud to announce that the following outstanding young people from the 26th Congressional District have accepted appointments to one of our nation’s service academies. Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are rigorously evaluated on a variety of criteria including academic performance, leadership qualifications and physical preparedness. Appointments to an academy must be preceded by a nomination from a Member of Congress, Academy Superintendent, the Vice President or a military connected nomination. Recently, at a coffee in Highland Village, Burgess presented appointees with a Special Certificate of Congressional Recognition and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their appointment. "I was pleased to nominate incredible young men and women who will be the future leaders of our armed forces and America,” stated Congressman Burgess. “I am even more delighted and grateful that they have accepted this challenge to serve their country." U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY: Caitlin Beal, Keller Mark Fryt, Flower Mound Nolan Martin, Argyle John Oswald, Lewisville Augustin Paulo, Fort Worth U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD: Katie Andrews, Denton Hugo Spinoza, Hurst U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO: Stephen Black, Flower Mound Sean Harrison, Keller Michael Hartzler, North Richland Hills Jake Labhart, Whitesboro William McAngus, Justin Josh Pherigo, North Richland Hills Reggie Rembert, Flower Mound Darren Stowe, The Colony Mark Weber, Flower Mound Michael Yoo, Denton U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY: Michael Handley, Flower Mound Andrew Pfarner, Keller William Richey, Denton Christian Smith, Flower Mound
06.06.2007	Three Bills Target Solutions to an Emerging Health Care Crisis Today, U.S. Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced legislation to bring a halt to the impending physician workforce crisis. In recent years, the number of students going into medicine has dwindled as high insurance costs and poor reimbursement for services have increased. Of those who become physicians, fewer are in locations of necessity or in high-need specialties. In a recent conversation with Alan Greenspan, former Chairman of the Federal Reserve, he said he was less concerned about the feasibility of paying for entitlement programs than whether an adequate physician labor supply would be available to meet the demand for medical services in the future. “Every town hall meeting brings the inevitable question from a senior, ‘Why do I have to change doctors now that I am on Medicare,’ said Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “The answer is simple – doctors are not reimbursed at a level that covers the cost of treatment. Doctors want to heal patients, but they cannot sustain giving assistance without adequate reimbursement.” In fact, physicians have been “saved” during the last minutes of Congress from a negative update to their Medicare reimbursement. “In short, we keep putting a band-aide on a cut instead of curing the patient,” said Rep. Burgess. “In fact, it was my mother who reminded me that I told me that I must take Medicare patients even if I wasn’t paid fairly. It was always a financial crisis, and for too many doctors it puts their business and livelihoods at risk.” The Physician Workforce Improvement and Incentives Package is a three-fold solution to the physician crisis: reform Medicare payment; increase growth in the number of physicians; and encourage physicians to go into needed specialties. This combination should ensure a workforce is in place as we move into a particularly difficult period of time as baby boomers age and more and more Americans become more reliant on a steady supply of health care services. Specifically the bills would accomplish the following: H.R. 2585, Ensuring the Future Physician Workforce Act of 2007 1) Eliminate Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) beginning in 2010. Replace it with Medical Economic Index (MEI). 2) SGR expenditure target reset at 2007 level 3) 3 percent bonus payments beginning in 2008 for quality reporting; making important changes to Medicare quality reporting program by focusing on gaps in care and high-cost services. 4) 3 percent bonus payments beginning in 2008 for Health Information Technology (HIT) implementation. 5) Safe-harbor from anti-kickback laws when implementing HIT. 6) Confidential reports for physicians on Medicare billing. 7) Reports to Medicare beneficiaries on utilization. 8) Collect data on Medicare savings gained by diverting hospital stays with out-patient care. 9) Create an on-going examination of Medicare funding. 10) Study the Relative Value Scale Update Committee (RUC) process. 11) Study healthcare disparities. 12) Accelerate nationwide implementation of the Recovery Audit Contractor program to 2008. H.R. 2583, Physician Workforce and Graduate Medical Education Enhancement Act of 2007 1) Establish an interest-free loan program for eligible hospitals in rural and small, urban areas to establish residency training programs in one of the following specialties: family medicine, internal medicine, pediatrics, emergency medicine, OB/GYN, or general surgery. *Authorization of $25 million over 10 years, 2008-2018. 2) Report to Congress on the efficacy of the program in achieving its stated goals. “Thirty-four percent of physicians practicing medicine in the United States are within 10 years of retirement age,” said John Strosnider, D.O., president of the American Osteopathic Association. “The time it takes to educate and train a physician is, at minimum, seven years. A student accepted in the class of 2007 will not enter the physician workforce until at least 2014. This bill creates a new program that will assist in the establishment of new graduate medical education programs focusing on primary care, general surgery, and obstetrics and gynecology, which is critical to training a larger cadre of physicians.” H.R. 2584, The High-Need Physician Workforce Incentives Act of 2007 1) Establish a scholarship program for generalist physicians in high-need areas to alleviate shortages of physicians in the fields of family practice, internal medicine, pediatrics, emergency medicine, general surgery, and OB/GYN (henceforth referred to as generalist physicians). *Authorization: $5 million for each of 5 years, FY2008-FY2012. $25 million total. 2) Establish a loan repayment program for generalist physicians who agree to serve in a critical shortage area. *Authorization: $5 million for each of 5 years, FY2008-FY2012. $25 million total. 3) Make grants to the States to provide financial aid to physicians in medically underserved areas to support patient-centered, coordinated care in a qualified medical home. *Authorization: $10 million per year, 2008-2012. $50 million total. 4) Make grants to board-certified entities to establish or expand geriatric fellowship programs in rural, suburban, or medically underserved communities. *Authorization: $1 million per year, 2008-2012. $5 million total. 5) Report to Congress on grants/loans provided and results achieved. 6) Amend the Internal Revenue Code so that gross income does not include compensation received by a physician from a local government for qualified medical service that is performed (1) in a medically underserved community, and (2) under contract with the local government for no less than 4 years. Compensation will be taken into account as wages and must still be reported - it just won’t be counted as gross income. “ACP is delighted Rep. Burgess is continuing his interest and help in improving America’s healthcare system,” continued David C. Dale, MD, FACP, president of the American College of Physicians. “He and Rep. Cuellar are to be commended for addressing the critical need to have a strong foundation of primary care and generalist physicians to meet the needs of an aging population with more chronic diseases and to support a new model of delivering care—the patient-centered medical home—that will result in better outcomes for patients and more efficient use of resources.”
06.04.2007	U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Vice Chairman, Republican Policy Committee Video prologue from The Hill's Congress Blog If your concern about the status of healthcare in this country only extends to the 2008 election, please turn to another part of this newspaper. If your concern about the status of healthcare in this country is about solutions, then I invite you to read on, offer feedback and participate in what may be the most important, yet under regarded problem we face today, and will face in the future. No matter if you favor consumer directed healthcare, or a single payer government run system, a commitment to finding workable solutions should be our pledge to the American people. Currently Congress plays a role in about 50% of healthcare spending in this country. The other half is comprised of for profit insurance, out of pocket expenses, and charitable or otherwise uncompensated care. For those favoring a single payer system, a questionable ability of the government as proprietor certainly argues against an expanded role for this side of the equation. Simply stated, are our priorities correct? Every healthcare dollar controlled by government has the potential for further distortion of the marketplace whether it is the unintended effects of price controls, unequal anti-trust laws, or an overly burdensome regulatory environment. In short, is the government a good steward who deserves an expanded role in our nation’s healthcare? Regardless of where one comes down in the public/private debate, system wide reform seems to be a common thread. And here it is critical to keep priorities in order. About eighteen months ago, just prior to his departure as Chairman of the Federal Reserve board, Alan Greenspan was speaking to a small group on the hill. He was asked about the future of Medicare, and his response was somewhat surprising. He was less concerned about the overall solvency of the program, as he was about "having anyone there to provide the services required." Clearly workforce issues concerned the fed chief over a year ago, and nothing has happened in the interim to mitigate that concern. And it may have gotten worse. As a leader in the nation’s capital, if you see an impending train wreck, what is the correct course of action? Try to waken the switchman to avert the disaster, or secure a video-camera to record the carnage and try to be the first to post it on you-tube? My approach as a physician leader has been to attempt to preserve and strengthen the physician workforce, so that patient access in the future is not in crisis. Regardless of who is in charge. And within this approach are three principles, all of which are important in their own right. To state it simply, we need to help the workforce of today, while we prepare the physicians for tomorrow, and ensure that new doctors yet to come can see a future in medicine. For the physicians of today, there is no more important task than to fix the programmed cuts to Medicare which are the most pernicious and pervasive obstacle to preserving the medical workforce. Let me state again for emphasis, there is no more important task ahead of this congress if we want to ensure our Medicare patients can receive care. A solution to the problem has evaded members of congress of both parties for decades, but the answer is so simple that it sometimes gets lost. Stop the cuts. Fix the formula. The impediment has been and remains the "cost" as constructed by CBO which runs into hundreds of billions of dollars, and more destructive, becomes larger every year it remains unsolved. Restoring equity to the method that Medicare uses to pay doctors has become an annual rite here in Washington. Over the years, cuts to Medicare physician payment have been averted by creative legislating, and Congress will once again need to find a solution to halt a cut of 10 percent to the physician payment rate in 2008. In 2009, it only gets worse as by doing so the window of opportunity in which we can actually reform the system only becomes smaller and smaller. The current payment system, in an attempt to control the volume growth of services by bad-actors, punishes the good-actors. The system doesn’t work for physicians, patients, public officials, or the American taxpayer, yet we allow it to persist. The first principle of sensible physician workforce reform will require Congress to immediately halt any cuts in Medicare physician reimbursement. Allowing these scheduled cuts to go into effect would create a chain reaction in the medical community and diminish the quantity and quality of health care available to all Americans and not just Medicare beneficiaries. Congress must also address this in a long-term nature or face future catastrophe because the problem only becomes more expensive if it is allowed to persist. Allowing this situation to smolder will result in fewer physicians accepting Medicare patients, reduced access for beneficiaries, and a constriction of the physician workforce pipeline over a period when demand for medical services is projected to explode. Fewer students will pursue medicine as a career. Even fewer will choose primary care fields within medicine. And all of this will happen while the baby-boom generation begins to grow older and face more and more medical challenges. The second and third principles will require Congress to make needed investments in medical students through loan and scholarship assistance as well as make important financial assistance available to smaller rural and suburban hospitals to kick-start new residency training programs. Today, I have introduced three pieces of legislation that attempt to address the issues facing the current physician workforce and the physician workforce of the future. We owe it to Americans to be proactive before this situation careens out of control. As my physician colleagues are ready to note, an ounce prevention is worth a pound of cure.
05.25.2007	Signing of the Iraq Supplemental the following statement was made by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) concerning the passage of H.R. 2206, the fiscal 2007 war supplemental: The passage of the Iraq Supplemental was a moment that the world watched closely. The original Democratic Leadership bill brought before the House was coupled with a withdrawal deadline for our troops. I opposed this concept, and spoke against on the House floor. For over one hundred days, the original bill, clearly a mistake, took up time of the Congress, and hurt the work of our men and women in the theater. I voted against it. My belief was that every member of Congress had to answer two fundamental questions: Is it in our broad national interest to win this fight? And secondly: Can we prevail, and thus have an ally in the country of Iraq, assisting in the goal of stability in the Middle East? For me, the answer to these two questions is yes. And a real bill should have been on the table, a bill without deadlines. Deadlines undermine. Further, if one's answer to these two questions was no, one should demand to bring the troops home now, and assert that a time line is worthless. Only the truly cynical would say we cannot win, and thus should withdraw sometime next year. The Democrats offered a weak bill, with a troop withdrawal deadline, that promptly failed. So 109 days after President Bush submitted a funding request to Congress to provide for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, Democratic leadership conceded and a new bill emerged without a deadline for troop withdraws. The Democratic Leadership owes the American people an unambiguous version of their vision for stability in the Middle East. To date they have not been forthcoming. But still, the Democrats managed to go on a spending spree on domestic issues not remotely related to the intention of the bill. While the conservative in me is irate about that maneuver, the larger priority in my mind was to fund and support our troops. I voted in favor of the final Iraq Supplemental legislation that is now law. The Democrats plan to continue to do what they can to undermine the effort. I frankly do not understand their rationale. Let us be serious about the fight we are in, or bring our guys home. My belief, based on briefings and time in both countries: we are moving ever closer to the date in which our military can hand off their responsibilities to Iraqi security forces. I pray that common sense, and a sense of our country’s moral obligation defines and leads our legislation that supports this mission, not politics. The following statement was made by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) concerning the passage of H.R. 2206, the fiscal 2007 war supplemental: “The passage of the Iraq Supplemental was something that the entire world watched closely. The original bill brought before the House was saddled with a withdrawal deadline for our troops, of which I opposed and spoke against on the House floor. “Introduced months ago, the original bill was clearly a mistake. I voted against it. I took to the House Floor on several occasions to denounce the bill. I commented that every House member has to answer two fundamental questions: Is it in our broad national interest to win this fight? The second question: Can we prevail and provide a modicum of security in the country of Iraq? For me, the answer to these two questions is yes. And that a real bill should be placed on the table without a deadline. I stated that if you answered no to both, you should demand to bring the troops home and that a timeline was worthless. But the Democrats offered a weak bill with a troop withdraw deadline that promptly failed. “So 109 days after President Bush submitted a reasonable request to Congress to fund the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, Democratic leadership conceded and a new bill emerged without a deadline for troop withdraws. But still, the Democrats managed to go on a spending spree on domestic issues not remotely related to the intention of the bill. While the conservative in me is irate about that maneuver, the larger priority in my mind was to fund and support our troops. I voted in favor of the final Iraq Supplemental legislation that is now law. “The Democrats plan to continue to do what they can to bring the war effort down. It is my hope that as we move closer to the date in which our military can hand off their responsibilities to Iraqi security forces, that common sense and a sense of our country’s moral obligation defines and leads our legislation that supports that mission, not politics.”
05.23.2007	Today, U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced H.R. 2454, legislation to encourage the manufacturing of cars that run on a 20% biodiesel-to-gasoline (B20) fuel mix. Right now, the United States imports nearly 60% of its oil and this number is expected to increase to 75% by 2010. Most of this oil comes from the Middle East and politically unstable nations such as Algeria, Nigeria and Venezuela. Reliance on foreign energy sources undermines our economy and our national security. Home-grown fuels, such as biodiesel, can help move the United States towards greater energy independence. Despite the energy security and clean air benefits, biodiesel-capable cars and trucks have been slow to hit the market, mainly because of concerns by original equipment manufacturers for automobiles and engines. Although manufacturers are comfortable with B5, most will not certify automobiles to run on B20. “It is my intention, that this legislation encourages auto and engine manufacturers to work toward making and certifying B20 capable engines and vehicles,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “This is a logical next step, and one that I think is achievable.” The Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) Program was established in the 1970s to reduce the use of petroleum in the United States during the Arab oil embargo. The CAFE law provides for special treatment of vehicle fuel economy calculations for dedicated alternative fuel vehicles and dual-fuel vehicles. The fuel economy of a dual-fuel vehicle is determined by finding the average of the fuel economy on gasoline or diesel and the fuel economy on the alternative fuel vehicle divided by 0.15. For example, a dual fuel vehicle that averages 25 miles per gallon on gasoline or diesel and 100 miles per gallon on alternative fuel, would earn a CAFE rating of 40 miles per gallon. Under current law, alternative fuels under CAFE include E-85, hydrogen, natural gas, and electricity. Charles Fiedler, Vice President of Operations at Biodiesel Industries, Inc. in Denton, Texas remarked of the Congressman’s bill, “It gives auto manufactures an additional CAFE credit for biodiesel thereby increasing the number of clean biodiesel cars on our roads. This bill benefits the country, and it benefits business like mine here in North Texas.” Specifically, it makes biodiesel blend of B20 eligible for the alternative fuel CAFE credit. Alternative fuels receive an additional CAFE credit because they help to reduce the use of petroleum fuels or provide a clean air benefit. Biodiesel does both. An October 2005 EPA study shows diesel vehicle fuel economy improvements of 33 - 40% and lifecycle carbon dioxide savings of 16 - 20% compared to gasoline vehicles. In addition, for every unit of diesel fuel which is replaced by biodiesel (B100), the total lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions that would have been produced from that unit of diesel fuel would be reduced by 67.7% and by B20, lifecycle GHG emissions are reduced by13 %.
05.18.2007	Today, U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. made the following statement: “I believe that the Army made the right decision by staying with Bell Helicopter to continue producing the Army’s new Armed Reconnaissance Helicopter. This platform is vital to our soldiers. The Army’s recent “stop work” order put this program in jeopardy and I am glad that Bell has been able to sufficiently correct the perceived production deficiencies and to get the helicopters to soldiers in the field.” The ARH is a replacement for the current OH-58D Kiowa Warrior fleet. Bell Helicopter Textron Inc. was awarded the Armed Reconnaissance Helicopter (ARH) contact on July 29, 2005. It called for Bell to build 368 aircraft for delivery during fiscal years 2006 through 2013 with the final cost estimated at $3 billion.
05.17.2007	Today, U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. made the following statement: “I find it earth shattering that the Senate would design legislation, behind closed doors, without input, and then plan to force it through both Houses of Congress. “This issue is of critical importance to all Americans, and certainly, to my constituents in North Texas. Yet, Members of both parties are still waiting for the bill to be introduced so we can actually read the language of the bill. “If the rumors are true, I will not support the bill. I do not believe in amnesty. Citizenship in this country means something, and we should not diminish its integrity by allowing those who have knowingly broken U.S. law to become citizens. “Border security has been and remains today my preference to address illegal immigration, and I will not waiver in that conviction.”
05.05.2007	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) hosted a Summit on the Issues of Aging on Saturday in Hurst. The event attracted over 100 participants to learn about planning for their financial, medical and legal future needs. “The event was designed to have individuals think through those decisions that inevitably we all face,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “Although none of us likes to think about getting older, we must plan for that eventuality. I know that if my mother had not pestered me about purchasing Long Term Care, I too would have found myself in a position where the cost would be exorbitant or I might not be able to purchase it at all.” In addition to brief remarks by the Congressman, the event included experts in their field discussing what lies ahead and what decisions should be made now. Emcee Gary Cumbie, Special Assistant to the Chancellor, Tarrant County College kicked off the event and handed the reigns over to Congressman Burgess who made a special presentation to Mr. Donald Wilson of North Richland Hills by presenting him with the Combat Action Ribbon he had been awarded in service to his country. The award was added to the Purple Heart and other awards he has already received for his honorable service in the U.S. Navy in Vietnam in 1967-68. Mr. Wilson was given a standing ovation by the crowd in honor of his sacrifice and dedication. The first discussion centered on the personal side of aging with author Jim Comer who shared his struggle to help his parents as they aged and learned several lessons along the way. Mr. Comer’s rousing presentation set the tone for the important information to follow. The next discussion explored several legal issues, including how to plan trusts, power of attorney, and formulating wills presented by Steve Katten a member of the Tarrant County Bar Association. Next was a discussion on financial issues led by Glenn Bishop, a qualified financial planner with the National Association of Personal Financial Advisors. The final presentation was by Rod Perkins with Genworth who discussed the many options to cover future health care expenses. In addition to the formal presentations, a health and financial fair took place at Tarrant County College’s Northeast Campus including the Tarrant County Area Agency on Aging, Tarrant County Health Department, Fort Worth Meals-on-Wheels, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Tarrant County Bar Association, and the Social Security Administration.
05.01.2007	The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) concerning President George W. Bush’s veto of the Iraq Supplemental legislation: “The President’s veto of the Iraq Supplemental bill was the strongest statement he could send to our troops. Bush supports the troops and so do most of my Republican colleagues. “Despite the Democrats efforts to curb our success in Iraq by placing arbitrary dates to remove troops, the President made it clear that forging a path to freedom and defeat of terrorism is through Iraq. “I was also pleased that the President pointed out another egregious mistake by the Democrats. Lining the bill with pork projects in a feeble attempt garner votes, the Democrats have shown their lack of concern for the being good stewards of the American taxpayer. “It is my hope that the leaders in both chambers understand what their duty is. Fund our troops. It is not only hypocritical but also simply wrong to send our soldiers to fight and then to remove their funding.”
05.01.2007	Last March I held an event with Deputy Secretary Clay Sell in my district at a local Home Depot to discuss the importance of energy efficiency and to inform my constituents about provisions in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 that encourage the use of efficient products. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 created a manufacturers tax credit for energy efficient dishwashers, clothes washers, and refrigerators in 2006 and 2007 and a residential solar tax credit for the installation of residential solar electricity systems. But we are here to day to discuss other provisions of the Energy Bill, which required the Department of Energy to promulgate regulations setting minimum energy efficiency standards for a number of household appliances. I know that residents of North Texas don't need to be told how important conservation can be. We know that when spring arrives a good fan and an open window can help circulate cool air. We try to save the air conditioner for the blazing hot summer. The Energy Policy Act of 1992 required the Department of Energy to set efficiency standards for both central air conditioners and room air conditioners. This allows our constituents to make sure that they are saving energy and money whenever they turn on the AC. Unfortunately, DOE has only completed one of two required rulemakings in each of these categories. That is the good news. Many of the appliance efficiency rulemakings dictated by that act 15 years ago have yet to receive any final action by DOE. These delays have occurred during multiple Administrations, on both sides of the aisle. It is time that these standards move forward. I understand that the Department of Energy has recently taken some positive steps towards resolving this backlog, partly as the result of a lawsuit settlement, and I hope to learn more today about what those steps were and additional steps that we can expect to be taken. I am also looking forward to hearing from our witnesses about the energy gains that we can make by employing energy efficiency technology. Mr. Chairman, conservation must be an important part of our strategy to wean ourselves from our dependence on foreign energy, so I thank you for holding this hearing today.
04.28.2007	The following is the text of Congressman Michael C. Burgess' remarks from the Unveiling of the Byron Nelson Congressional Gold Medal Saturday, April 28, 2007: "It is with sincere joy and great honor that I stand before you today, for the unveiling of the Byron Nelson Congressional Gold Medal design. While my public effort to award the fine gentleman from Texas with this distinct honor began a few years ago, my respect and admiration for Mr. Nelson extends back to my earliest memories. "My mother, a wonderfully sweet woman, remarked that Byron Nelson was the kind of man we should aspire to be. Gracious, kind, intelligent, caring and above all, compassionate. He was a gentleman by definition but more importantly, by his actions. "As we celebrate his life today at his namesake tournament, it is not without sadness that we miss his warm heart and cheerful smile. "Modest in all respects, and honest to the core, I was honored to watch a golf tournament with him just about a year ago in his home, with Peggy, in Roanoke. He was sharp, witty and a consummate educator even though only Peggy and I could hear the tips and pointers he provided the players at the Master’s. "Even while he was chiseling his way into being a golf legend, Byron Nelson remained an avid learner. He kept a notebook about his own golf skills and reviewed them carefully ensuring he learned from his mistakes. This small nugget of continuing to strive to be your best is something that he instilled in others – many of whom are here with us today. "As he moved on from golf, he continued to expand his vibrant personality to his family, friends and fans. He championed many causes. He easily could have rested on his laurels, but instead he turned to a life of service. "He loved the Lord, he love Peggy, and he cared about humanity. He strived to put his best foot forward without stepping on others. He strove to be the best man he could without ever being prideful. Perhaps my largest challenge in pushing the bill into law, was actually convincing Byron that he deserves this award – the highest civilian award which may be bestowed by the United States Congress. "I am thankful that I knew Byron Nelson. I hope those of you here today had that same honor. And I believe that the Byron Nelson Congressional Gold Medal will stand as a testament through the ages of Byron generous spirit." Bronze duplicates of the medal will be available to purchase via the U.S. Mint's website. The official ceremony and presentation of the Congressional Gold Medal to Peggy Nelson will occur later in 2007 in Washington, DC.
04.25.2007	House Republican Policy Vice Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) issued the following statement after House Democrats approved a supplemental conference report: “Our troops deserve the best; and the Democrats provided the worst in the supplemental conference report. With the news full of inaccurate and biased stories from Iraq, I am not surprised by the Democrats’ push for a timetable to bring our troops back from Iraq. “However, the facts speak for themselves. The two month surge in Iraq is making a difference, and I am appalled that votes this monumental in importance are being made based off of television reports. “General Petraeus gave an honest assessment of the situation on the ground in Iraq. He admitted there have been significant challenges, especially with sectarian violence, but he nonetheless accounted for remarkable strides of progress. But, the vote on the floor to withdraw troops simply sweeps the truth under the carpet. “I voted against the supplemental conference report. I believe it is a disgrace to place our soldiers in the field, ask them to do a job, and subsequently jeopardize their mission by giving the enemy a clear timeframe to simply sit around and wait until our departure. I can only hold out hope that the President stands by his decision and vetoes this legislation.”
04.20.2007	Thank you Chairman Stupak and Ranking Member Whitfield for continuing the committee’s important oversight over Los Alamos. This is a bipartisan issue, and we all share the same concern and anxiety regarding security at the lab which built the nuclear bomb. I appreciate the aggressive nature that our committee has taken on this crucial issue of national security. We have three witnesses before us that can provide insight into the problems and solutions to Los Alamos problems, Secretary Bodman, Inspector General Freidman, and Director Anastasio. Gentlemen, I welcome you all here today, and I look forward to entering into a lively and instructive discussion with each of you. I understand that there have been improvements made, but there are still many challenges ahead of you. Today we will be reviewing the findings of both the Personnel Security Task Force and the Cyber Security Task Force. I’m encouraged by reading about the Tasks Forces, but unfortunately we’ve been told in the past that actions and repercussions will occur, but they never do. That’s why we’ve held hearing after hearing, year after year, on Los Alamos. To quote the Inspector General in his written statement—“Many of the actions are in process and the key to the successful resolution of the matters detailed in our November report is implementation and execution.” End quote. Let me say that again, implementation and execution. You all have good ideas that will significantly affect the security of Los Alamos, but it is not enough for you to come before Congress and talk the talk. You must walk the walk. While I am still not completely comfortable with using basically the same contractor for operating Los Alamos, I do believe that Director Anastasio is capable and qualified to help turn things around. Also, as I mentioned during the last hearing you have some of the most intelligent minds in the world that work at Los Alamos. While there is clearly an institutional problem at Los Alamos, we must also remember that there are also thousands of hardworking employees at the lab who make a remarkable contribution to science and the country on a daily basis. Also at the last hearing, we discussed the issue of accountability. It is appropriate to readdress that issue today. While there are many organizational changes that can be made to better ensure the security of our country’s classified information, one of the easiest and most effective remedy is to make the contractor in charge of security pay a deep penalty. As a steward of the taxpayer dollar, I fully support this idea. If the contractor is penalized millions upon millions of dollars, maybe then they will finally recognize how serious of a problem this is and that it must be stopped at all costs. I would like an update on whether or not the Department of Energy is going to hold the contractor accountable for its actions, or lack there of. I also have another issue within the Department of Energy that I think is appropriate to briefly mention and discuss. I understand that there is a strike occurring at the nuclear security weapon plant in my home state of Texas, Pantex, and I would appreciate if Secretary Bodman would give a brief update on that issue and its impact on security at the plant. Mr. Chairman, again I thank you for this bipartisan hearing in which we can further address the security at Los Alamos. We are all committed to continuing these hearings until this horrible cycle of security breaches at Los Alamos is finally over, once and for all.
04.19.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives today approved H.R. 1495, Water Resources Development Act of 2007, legislation that authorizes critical flood control and policy improvements that are vital to the nation’s economy and environment. This legislation, known as WRDA, authorizes approximately $14 billion for water resources studies and construction projects by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The Army Corps’ civil works program is the nation’s largest water resources program. Congress has increased the Army Corps' responsibilities in the past twenty years to include ecosystem restoration, municipal water and wastewater infrastructure and disaster relief. A key element was missing from WRDA’s final language. The bill failed to include the Texas Environmental Infrastructure Program (TEIP) which would have directed the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to align with state goals and objectives for planning, engineering design and construction of water supply, wastewater, water quality and environmental projects. Reauthorization was certainly needed, but exclusion of TEIP hampers state-federal partnerships “While I am disappointed that the WRDA Reauthorization before us today does not include TEIP, I will continue to work with Senators Hutchison and Cornyn to include in the Senate version and any future conference report,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26). The bill passed by both Houses of Congress must go through a conference committee before a final bill is voted upon to be sent to the President for his signature into law. "The Texas Water Development Board appreciates the support of Congressman Burgess in highlighting Texas' priorities for the Water Resources Development Act,” said Texas Water Development Board Chairman E. G. Rod Pittman. “The Congressman and his staff continue to advocate for Texas water interests at the national level, helping the Board to ensure adequate, clean water for Texas. We look forward to continuing our work with Congressman Burgess to pass a WRDA bill that helps our great state.” Water Resources Development Act of 2007: Reaffirms the commitment of the Committee to the nation’s water resources infrastructure, to addressing new water resources needs and to fine-tune the Army Corps’ missions and responsibilities. Authorizes 51 projects with Chief’s reports relating to flood damage reduction, navigation, hurricane and storm damage reduction, and environmental restoration, including the navigation and ecosystem restoration project for the Upper Mississippi River and Illinois Waterway system, an Everglades restoration project, and the program for protecting, conserving, and restoring the Louisiana Coastal area. Includes provisions for streamlining and expediting Army Corps’ project delivery and permits. Includes provisions for the improvement of the Army Corps’ planning and project development process, including independent peer review of larger and more controversial studies. Authorizes a number of smaller projects, project modifications, and investigations related to the Army Corps’ civil works program.
04.18.2007	House Republican Policy Committee Vice Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) issued the following statement after the United States Supreme Court decision to affirm the ban on “partial birth” abortion: “With an overwhelming majority of Americans, across all socio-economic levels, agreed that partial birth abortion should be banned in the United States. I am grateful that the Supreme Court has upheld the law Congress passed.” “While I find it troubling that the vote was 5-4 on an issue that had such obvious support of the people, I still recognize that today is a day to celebrate.” As a practicing ob-gyn for 25 years in North Texas before heading to Congress, I can say that this procedure was never necessary, and that a doctor’s ability to provide the very best care to his or her patients is not compromised by this decision.” America’s voice was heard by Congress, the President, and the Supreme Court.”
03.27.2007	On Friday, March 23, 2007, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) introduced legislation to reveal the true cost of health care prices so consumers make well-informed and educated decisions on their health care choices. Below is a detailed layout of of the new legislation. Bill Title: H.R. 1666, Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act of 2007 Sponsor: Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) Cosponsors: Rep. Gene Green Introduced: Friday, March 23, 2007 Status: Intro in the House. No companion bill introduced in the Senate Why it is needed: We currently have a health care system that is badly in need of reform. However, in the tangled mess of medical bureaucracy, no one has a clear picture of the problem. Physicians and other providers don’t get paid enough, patients pay too much, many people don’t get any care at all, and everyone claims that someone else needs to change. Before we start changing things, though, it seems prudent to understand the problem fully. Today, I have introduced legislation with that goal in mind. This is a first step toward true price transparency in the health care market. The Health Care Price Transparency Act of 2006 is a long-term solution to runaway medical costs. In August 2006, President Bush issued an executive order calling for increased transparency within the federal government’s health care agencies. This legislation is an extension of that executive order, giving states the tools to become part of a necessary solution for health care consumers. What it does: This bill would require states establish health care transparency requirements for hospitals and health plans, as well as conduct a study on what information most useful to consumers. Hypothetical example: The Texas Hospital Association has created a web-based tool that allows consumers to hospital-to-hospital cost. This assists consumers that are considering non-emergency procedures at area hospitals. Couple this data with hospital quality information, and consumers will be able to truly shop for health services based on quality and cost. Specifics on HR 1666: Section 1. Short Title Section 2. Increasing the Transparency of Information on Hospital Charges and Making Available Information on Estimated Out-of-Pocket Costs for Health Care Services. The State will establish and maintain laws to require disclosure of information on hospital charges, to make such information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. Information on Hospital Charges – The laws of a State must: 1) Require disclosure, by each hospital located in the State, of information on the charges for certain inpatient and outpatient hospital services (as determined by the State) provided at the hospital. 2) Provide for timely access to such information by individuals seeking or requiring such services. Estimated Out-of-Pocket Costs – The laws of a State must: 1) Require that, upon the request of any individual with health insurance coverage, the issuer must provide a statement of the estimated out-of-pocket costs that are likely to be incurred by the individual if he/she receives particular health care items and services within a specified period of time. Rules of Construction 1) The Secretary is not authorized or required to establish uniform standards for State laws. 2) States with previously established laws that meet the above requirements are not required to change their laws. Previously established laws that do not meet the above requirements need only change their laws as necessary to meet the requirements. 3) States with voluntary disclosure on hospital charges still need to adopt laws. 4) It is understood that estimated out-of-pocket charges may well exceed the estimated costs. This legislation is to be effective October 1, 2007. In cases where additional State legislation beyond appropriations is required to enact this legislation, an extension until the first calendar quarter after the close of the first regular session of the State legislature is given. Section 3. Research on Information Valued by Consumers on Charges and Out-Of-Pocket Costs for Health Care Services. The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) shall conduct or support research on: 1) The types of cost information that individuals find useful in making decisions regarding healthcare. 2) How this useful information varies according to an individual’s health insurance coverage, and if so, by what type of coverage they have. 3) Ways that information may be distributed in a timely and simple manner. The AHRQ will report on this study within 18 months after enactment of this legislation. Such sums as may be necessary are authorized to carry this out. Groups that Support the Bill: American Hospital Association
03.22.2007	Carbon Sequestration The Hill’s CongressBlog Yesterday we heard from Vice President Al Gore about his views on Global Warming. During his testimony, he said that he believes that no new coal plants should be built in the U.S. unless they are carbon-capture ready. A carbon capture-ready plant, without actually capturing carbon, is configured differently than non-carbon capture-ready plant, and is much more inefficient. This amounts to increased carbon emissions until the carbon capture equipment is installed. Yet, the recently released MIT Coal Study tells us that carbon capture is not credible until it has been commercially demonstrated -- and it hasn't been. With all due respect to the Vice President, I hear from my constituents every day that electricity prices are too high. ERCOT, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, has said that unless new generation capacity is built in Texas, we will not have enough electricity to ensure reliability within the next 5-10 years. I believe that we need to keep the lights on, while continuing to invest in technology -- and demonstration.
03.21.2007	Pecan Creek in Gainesville has overrun its banks at least a half a dozen times the last fifty years and caused extensive damage. The City of Gainesville and the Army Corps of Engineers signed a feasibility cost sharing agreement in April 2003 to conduct studies to identify a solution to the flooding. Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) solidified that $389,000 in the Army Corps of Engineers Fiscal Year 2007 Workplan will complete plans and specifications phase of the project, which is necessary before construction can begin. “Congressman Burgess was instrumental in making sure the funding for this project was not lost in the flurry of activity on Capitol Hill,” said Mike Land, Gainesville City Manager. “This project is of critical importance to residents, and our representative certainly came through for us.” The project has been under consideration for decades, but while acknowledgement about the problem was evident, funding was nonexistent. “I remember one of the major floods from Pecan Creek back in the 80s,” reflected Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “This project has been a priority of mine from the beginning, and I am glad to see that relief will come to Gainesville residents and indeed, all of us in North Texas affected by Pecan Creeks continued flooding.” Congressman Burgess worked alongside Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) continually pushed for funding to be included in the Corps FY07 Workplan. With limited financial resources, propelling the Pecan Creek project above others was an uphill, but successful battle.
03.21.2007	The National Healthy Start Association (NHSA), whose members include almost 100 federally funded Healthy Start projects in the United States, promotes community-based maternal and child health programs, particularly those that focus on the reduction of infant mortality, low birthweight and racial disparities in perinatal outcomes. In recognition of U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess’ civic contributions to fighting infant mortality, the National Healthy Start Association presented Dr. Burgess with their National Service Award. The award is presented each year to elected officials that have exhibited “stellar leadership and steadfast support for the Healthy Start Program and taken active steps to address issues of infant mortality, low birthweight and racial disparities in perinatal outcomes.” The selection is made by the NHSA board of directors. In addition to Congressman Burgess, the awardees this year were Congressman Fred Upton and Senator Jeff Bingaman. The Tarrant County Infant Mortality Task Force played a significant role in Rep. Burgess being selected for this prestigious award. While the United States ranks 23rd among industrialized nations in the world in infant mortality, Tarrant County has been greatly afflicted. Tarrant County has more infant deaths in comparison to the State of Texas taken as a whole, on average. The primary cause of infant mortality in Tarrant County is prematurity and low birthrate. Some 80% of deaths in Tarrant occur within the first week of birth. Within this critical first week, black infants account for over half, 51.9%, of deaths. It is true nationally, that racial disparities occur both in health status and health care. The goal of Healthy Start is to reduce these disparities, especially among pregnant and postpartum women and their infants. Congressman Burgess secured $50,000 specifically for the Tarrant County Infant Mortality Task Force in the House-passed Health and Human Services Appropriations bill last year. “I know there are always questions concerning appropriations money in Congress, but I believe this funding is necessary and exactly the type of area where the federal government should be willing to assist,” said Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. “Infant mortality is an area of health care that with true effort and education, we can prevent.” In the 109th Congress, Dr. Burgess introduced H.RES.402, Supporting the goals and ideals of Infant Mortality Awareness Month. The focus of the resolution was to raise awareness, on a national level, about the rising concern of infant mortality in our country. By bringing this resolution forward, other Members of Congress, both the House and Senate, had an opportunity to evaluate how their constituency is affected by this growing trend. I am pleased to say that it has already passed both Houses of Congress. “Congressman Burgess has been a true champion for our Healthy Start program in Fort Worth,” said Jerry Roberson of the Tarrant County Mortality Task Force. “He has taken a genuine interest and made a real commitment to ensure that we have the resources to make an impact on infant mortality and low birthweight babies in our community. We are blessed to have a Congressman like Dr. Burgess who not only cares about families with limited access to health services, but is in a position to do something about it.” The National Healthy Start Association believes that the Healthy Start program offers the best models for the reduction of infant mortality, low birthweight and racial disparities in perinatal outcomes. This model emphasizes both the importance of community-based approaches to solving these problems, and the need to develop comprehensive, holistic interventions that include health, social and economic services. Each Healthy Start project is mandated to develop a local consortium composed of neighborhood residents, medical providers, social service agencies, faith-based representatives and the business community. This consortium guides and oversees the design and implementation of the local Healthy Start project. The Association has a mandate to ensure that these key features of the Healthy Start model are strengthened and promoted among all Healthy Start projects and is available to provide technical assistance, when requested.
03.21.2007	Vice President Gore, unlike many of my colleagues here on this panel, I did not have the opportunity to serve on this Committee with our first witness today this morning, but I thank you for appearing before us this morning. I'd also like to extend a warm welcome to our second witness, Dr. Bjørn Lomborg, from The University of Copenhagen. Vice President Gore, I look forward to hearing your testimony before us this morning. I have watched your movie, popcorn in hand. At the end of your movie, you put up a chart showing ways that we can reduce our carbon emissions and how much each activity will save us in terms of emissions. You cite things like using more efficient lighting, appliances, and renewable energy technologies like wind and biofuels. You show how these will help us reduce our carbon emissions by over half -- and that's apparently without taking into account nuclear energy. Now, I'm strongly supportive of these types of activities - both politically and personally. In fact, when my wife and I recently built a new home, we incorporated a number of energy conservation technologies. We've installed smart thermostats, double pane Low E windows, energy efficient ducts, and zoned air conditioning. My wife, who is the architect who designed the house for us, actually got a little upset with me when I delayed the project for a few weeks in order to add additional foam insulation in the walls. We've also purchased Energy Star appliances for our kitchen and laundry room. Last year, under the leadership of then-Chairman Barton, this Committee passed the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which was ultimately signed into law by President Bush. If you will refer the slide, you can see that EPAct contained provisions that addressed each of these areas. I voted in favor of the bill and was strongly supportive of the conservation and renewable provisions. One of my greatest concerns is America's energy security. I believe that we must reduce our dependency on foreign sources of energy -- whether it be energy used to drive our cars, to heat and cool our homes, or to power our businesses. Reliance on foreign energy sources, if allowed to continue, will not only undermine our economy and our standard of living but also our national security as we become more and more dependent on foreign sources to fulfill our energy needs. Vice President Gore's greatest concern appears to be global climate change. I may not agree with his prioritization of the issue, or his dramatic call for sharp reductions in carbon dioxide emissions, which, I believe, could cause immeasurable harm to our economy and to American jobs, but it appears that there are some things that we can do that would both increase our energy independence and reduce our carbon emissions, without hurting our economy. Dr. Lomborg, thank you for agreeing to appear before us today. I have read your testimony and believe that your perspective is invaluable. In your testimony, you discuss the 2004 Copenhagen consensus, a gathering of world economists, including 4 Nobel laureates, during which you examined some of the world's most difficult global challenges and asked the question: "where would you spend extra resources to do good first?" You then assigned costs -- a concept that we don't hear coming from the other side of the aisle too often in this climate change debate -- and benefits and determined which investments were the best bang for the buck. It turned out that preventing HIV/AIDS and controlling malaria ranked at the top as "very good" investments, returning $40 of human good per dollar invested and climate change came in at the bottom as a "bad" investment, returning $0.23 per every dollar invested. Dr. Lomborg, in your testimony, you state that Vice President Gore's proposal to replace the payroll tax would cost $160 billion per year and only postpone warming by 4.5 years and that the Kyoto Protocol costs $180 billion per year and will only postpone warming by 5 years. Yet for $75 billion, we can solve global problems with clean drinking water, sanitation, basic healthcare, and primary education. Mr. Chairman, I may not be an economist, but that sounds like a much better deal to me. With that, I'd like to thank the witnesses again for appearing before us today and I'll yield back.
03.14.2007	Thank you, Mr. Chairman for holding this hearing. And I'd like to thank the panel for taking time out of their extremely busy schedules to appear before us today. I noted that, in your written statements, all of you appear to be supportive of alternative fueled vehicles, including biodiesel, and hybrid technology. I am the proud owner of a hybrid vehicle and have the privilege to represent the world's first entirely renewable biodiesel facility in Denton, Texas, so I am pleased to hear this. Many of those advocating for carbon cap-and-trade system argue that it should be economy-wide, which would include the transportation sector. I am greatly concerned about the potential impact of a carbon cap-and-trade system on America's manufacturing sector. Automobile manufacturers, in particular, could be especially hurt as they face higher electricity bills even as they make significant expenditures to meet Congressionally-imposed, arbitrary, CAFE Standards. I will be interested to hear from our witnesses on this subject. I strong support increased fuel efficiency in vehicles -- I think the single most important step towards energy independence is reducing the amount of oil used for cars and trucks on our roads -- but it is important that we do not recreate the Yugo. It is consumer demand and consumer choice that will ultimately determine the "fuel economy" of the vehicles that are actually on America's highways and biways. Until consumers realize that there's a direct correlation between energy prices, dependence on foreign oil and their SUVs or other big gas guzzlers, we will not see a change in consumer habits. I thank the panel again for appearing before us today and look forward to hearing their thoughts.
03.13.2007	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for convening this hearing. So much has been written and said about the tragedy and lack of preparedness concerning the hurricane season of 2005, but perhaps most explosive were the issues surrounding Katrina’s devastating blow to the Gulf Coast. While blame can truly be placed at every level of government, the time has passed for pointing fingers. Today, in this room, we must focus on what destroyed the health care community, how it is still in dire straights and how to prevent this disaster from occurring again. Soon after Katrina hit, I embarked on a CODEL to New Orleans and its surrounding communities to review not only the physical damage to buildings and property, but also and more importantly, to assess the almost complete annihilation of the health care community. I will begin my opening statement into three basic principles. First, the importance of having a plan in place in preparation of an impending disaster; case in point is the difference between the HCA’s implementation of an emergency plan and the lack of a plan at Charity Hospital. Although across the street from one another, the differences in outcome were astronomical. One stands today; the other is gone forever. Second, there is a clear and obvious need for electronic medical records. It is amazing how a small device like this (holding blackberry) can keep the health records of thousands of individuals safe from destruction as evident in the photo I took at Charity Hospital’s records room (holding poster). This committee has the oversight capabilities to encourage and set regulations to move the use of electronic medical records along. Just after Katrina passed many displaced individuals, thousands with severe medical issues, were uprooted and moved to various places in Texas. One location was the Tarrant County Resource Connection in Fort Worth where one of my district offices is located. I was on the scene, helping the local American Red Cross prepare for busloads of survivors to arrive. When they did arrive, many were in precarious medical conditions. And yet, the medical community of North Texas rose the occasion with a “call to arms” to help those in need. The final guiding principle I want to underscore in this hearing is the need to actually set out a plan of action. We have a tendency in Congress to point fingers and blue sky about solutions, but we often lack the all important follow through. Specifically, it was well documented after Katina that the medical community in New Orleans was not recovering. The medical professionals were unable to care for individuals as they lacked funding and the resources to actually assist those in need. The DMAT teams, flown in from around the country, were reduced to setting up tents to receive patients (show second poster). These were used in an attempt to triage the most critical patients into the hospital where average wait times could exceed 24 hours. Twenty four hours…that is a significant wait time for medical treatment. Any major disaster, a bus crash or fire that might affect 5 or more people would regularly warrant a Level 1 Trauma Center – the New Orleans region lost their trauma center. What does this mean? It means that if a bus crash occurred, the lives of many more would be lost as they would have to go over 2 hours to the nearest trauma center. The affects of Katrina are ongoing. We cannot turn a blind eye and point fingers any longer. We must, this committee must, make specific goals to instigate change. We must also accept the responsibility to continue our oversight within 6 months and again in a year to assess progress or perhaps the lack thereof. As we begin today’s hearing, I am hopeful that we all keep in mind that this is about helping mitigate any future disasters and insuring that the best health care is available to those in the greatest need, even in the gravest of times. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
03.13.2007	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. congratulates constituent Yieu Chyan, 17, of Denton, in Washington, DC in honor of Yieu’s chemistry research project for the Intel Science Talent Search. The Intel Science Talent Search (Intel STS), America’s oldest and most highly regarded pre-college science competition, provides an incentive and an arena for U.S. high school seniors to complete an original research project and have it recognized by a national jury of highly regarded professional scientists. The projects are a result of inquiry-based learning methods designed to nurture critical reasoning skills, experience science through the use of the scientific method and to demonstrate how math and science skills are crucial to making sense of today's technological world and making the best decisions for tomorrow. “Science opens up the world of tomorrow,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “Yieu’s talents are needed to insure a brighter future for us all, and I am honored to be able to welcome him to Washington and congratulate him in person on this most significant achievement.” Yieu Chyan researched ways to increase the solar energy conversion efficiency of organic photovoltaic (PV) devices. His studies chemically combined semiconductor nanoparticles within a conductive organic polymer network and demonstrated a small, but unmistakable, photoresponse. This combination yielded a polymer film hybrid that may be more practical and cost efficient to manufacture than current silicon-based PV devices. Yieu plans to further optimize the morphology of his thin hybrid films, which may lead to a smoother and more uniform dispersiaon of particles and more robust films for solar energy conversion. A student at Texas Academy of Mathematics & Science, Yieu is also an accomplished violinist and pianist, and he composed and conducted an award-winning piece for a Texas Music Teachers Association contest. He volunteers regularly as an attorney at the Denton Teen Court and participates in a 15 piano ensemble in the summer. The son of Dr. Oliver Chyan and Dr. Jin-Jian Chen, Yieu plans to attend MIT or Washington University at St. Louis and hopes to earn a doctorate in biochemistry. The 40 Finalists of the Intel Science Talent Search 2007, who will be competing for $530,000 in scholarships, represent about 2.3 percent of those who completed entries in this scientific and educational competition. These 20 females and 20 males are awarded an all-expense-paid trip to Washington, D.C. to attend the Intel Science Talent Institute, March 8 -13, 2007.
03.09.2007	Thank you, Chairman Dingell and Ranking Member Barton, and thank you for your leadership in this important matter. I am a proud cosponsor of H.R. 936, and fully support this hearing. Last year, we had numerous hearings on pretexting in the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, and we all saw first hand the dangers and evils of this deceptive practice. H.R. 936 not only makes pretexting illegal, but it also helps to prevent it from happening. I do recognize, though, that there are some important questions that need to be addressed, and I am hopeful that our witnesses will help us answer those questions today. Again, Mr. Chairman, thank you for this hearing. I am confident that our committee will continue to work diligently to protect the American public and their private records. I yield back the remainder of my time.
03.08.2007	One of my most important responsibilities as a Member of Congress is to ensure that my constituents' tax dollars are being spent wisely. It is for that reason that I look forward to the ongoing debate about our national funding priorities. Administrator Johnson, thank you for appearing before us this morning. As we begin the Fiscal Year 2008 appropriations cycle, it will be helpful to hear from you about the President's Budget request for the Environmental Protection Agency. My district is located in North Texas, and one of my region's most important and challenging issues over the next decade will be how best to clean up our air, so I am especially interested to hear your testimony on the EPA's air programs. Administrator Johnson, thank you again for appearing before us this morning. I yield back.
03.07.2007	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for convening this hearing. I think informative hearings, such as this morning's science hearing, are extremely helpful -- indeed, essential -- to the legislative process. I am glad that we were able to reschedule this hearing, which was canceled due to an ice storm, but remain a bit puzzled why this was not our first hearing. Instead of starting from the beginning, with the science, we started with a discussion of cap-and-trade proposals. So I'm glad that we've finally gotten to the horse, rather than the cart. I'd like to call your attention to the graphic on the screen. According to EPA data, water vapor accounts for 95 percent of greenhouse gases, ocean biologic activity, volcanoes, decaying plants, etc. are an additional 4.72 percent, and that last small sliver is the human contribution -- less than 1/3 of 1 percent. The focus of today's hearing is on that less than 1/3 of one percent, but I wanted to make sure that we do not forget the context in which we are working. Within the anthropogenic emissions, greenhouse gas emissions come from multiple sources, including livestock, land use changes, and fire suppression systems in addition to electricity plants and tailpipes. I believe that Dr. Avissar from Duke University will be focusing his testimony on this broader context. I realize that this is a topic that will be addressed in a future hearing by this Subcommittee, but I think it's important that as we begin to examine the causes of global climate change, we not forget the economic consequences of policy decisions made by this body as we look at climate control legislation. Regardless of the reason -- global warming or national security, switching to a non-carbon based economy is a good idea. But we must not sacrifice our economy as we make that transition. And that is an important point to keep in mind. Many in the press, the public, and even in this Committee use the terms "global warming" and "climate change" interchangeably. But they're not synomous, and I look forward to hearing more about this difference from today's witnesses, particularly Dr. Christy, who we welcomed last year in the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, as well as Dr. Avissar. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
03.06.2007	Energy and Air Quality Subcommittee Hearing: “Carbon Capture and Sequestration: An Overview” March 6, 2007 Thank you, Mr. Chairman for convening today's hearing on carbon capture and sequestration. As we've begun to debate the issue of global climate change, there has been a lot of discussion about carbon capture and sequestration and the potential promise that it holds for reducing the amount of carbon in our atmosphere. These discussions, however, have focused on the carbon capture portion of the equation, and seemed to assume that the sequestration technology is available. One of the things that I hope to learn during today's hearing is whether that assumption is well founded. There are several different possibilities for carbon storage: depleted oil wells, unmineable coal seams, injection into the ocean, or storage in saline solutions. Yet many of these are still in the initial stages of being tested. The world's first commercial deep saline carbon dioxide capture and storage project was started in Norway's North Sea during 2006. That's not that long-ago. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses on the status of carbon capture and sequestration technology. One final note before I yield back. Two of the final four sites selected for the location of FutureGen are located in my home state of Texas. I'm extremely supportive of FutureGen and am hopeful that the FutureGen Alliance will ultimately chose to site the plant in its logical place -- the Lone Star State -- but let's not forget that this is a demonstration project. A ten year, $1 billion demonstration project. And in the end, is only expected to produce 275 Megawatts of electricity, as compared to the 600 Megawatts capacity of most commercial power plants. There is an enormous amount of time and money being spent to show that this technology is even possible. And I think that it's a sound investment in future technology. Now, I know that the most difficult part of this project is the hydrogen production component, but it still raises an important question: how far off in the future is the technology of carbon capture and sequestration and how expensive will it be?
03.06.2007	Before he retired as chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan spoke to a group of us about the future of entitlement programs in this country. He didn’t lament the ability of the U.S. government to meet its financial commitment to seniors, but he was extremely concerned whether there would be enough younger Americans to take care of the older generation on a variety of fronts, especially when it comes to their health care. I believe we have future physician workforce crisis facing this country and Medicare payment policies only serve to exacerbate this growing problem. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses today. Before we break for the Easter recess I will introduce legislation that will attempt to address the issues we will be discussing here today. The following principles will guide the development of this legislation. 1. Congress must develop physician workforce initiatives that would ensure future beneficiary accessibility and sustain a robust physician workforce, separately but complementary to Medicare physician payment reform. 2. The current Medicare physician payment system exacerbates negative physician workforce trends, therefore SGR must be eliminated. 3. Reimbursement must fairly compensate physicians to provide services covered by Medicare. 4. Any new system must be able to adjust for growth in services, but also be agile enough to determine what constitutes appropriate growth in service volume and when growth results in better patient outcomes. Since Medicare is an integrated program, the measure of “appropriateness” should take into account the growth in certain services and the decrease or avoidance of other services covered elsewhere under the Medicare program. 5. Congress must de-link any future cost containment trends in the economy that are external to medicine. Whatever the cost containment device is it must be based on the actual cost of medical inputs. 6. Quality reporting should encompass a variety of options for physicians with standards on information that can be gathered and how to aggregate the data. Platforms can include QIOs, physician specialty organizations, expansion of Medical Home Demonstration, etc. Quality reporting should not exacerbate health care disparities or represent a substantial administrative burden. 7. Increases in physician services can also be a result of inefficiencies. Implementation of HIT should be rewarded by Medicare as it will help diminish inefficiencies in the system. Developing an add-on percentage as part of physician payment is a high-priority. 8. Making Medicare beneficiaries more sensitive to cost and how their decisions drive growth of services is an essential component to any reform proposal. I look forward to working with the Committee, the physician community, beneficiary organizations and other stakeholders on this important issue. If we can’t fix this problem today, we won’t have the doctors we’ll all need in the future.
03.01.2007	Opening Statement Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health “Covering the Uninsured Through the Eyes of a Child” March 1, 2007 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’d like to start by saying how very sorry I am that my friend and colleague, Charlie Norwood, is no longer with us. He was a great advocate for health throughout his tenure as a Representative and his presence will be sorely missed. I hope we can do his memory justice here today and through the remainder of the 110th Congress. The issue of providing health insurance for uninsured children is a critical one, particularly in my home state of Texas, and I am eager to hear about ways that we can ensure the SCHIP program continues and improves. Overall, I believe the program has been a resounding success. I agree with Rep. Barton that there is broad support for reauthorization, but there is always more that can be done. SCHIP was created in 1997 to provide health insurance for children from low-income families who made too much money to qualify for Medicaid. When SCHIP was created, each state was given three options for program funds: (1) Enroll more children in Medicaid; (2) Create a separate SCHIP program; or (3) Devise a combination of the two. Both Medicaid and SCHIP are federal-state matching programs, but rather than being an automatically funded entitlement program, SCHIP is funded through a block grant with a fixed annual allotment. This means that SCHIP funding does not automatically keep up with rising healthcare costs, but it also means that we are not giving anyone a blank check to spend taxpayer dollars. I appreciate this as a fiscal conservative. Nobody ever solved a problem by simply throwing money at it, and I certainly hope we won’t be doing that here. We may choose to expand SCHIP, yes, but we should also be looking for ways to utilize our existing resources more wisely. I am particularly interested in how private health insurance may interact with SCHIP. I noticed that Mr. Peterson’s testimony indicates that (and I quote) “private health insurance among children has declined while public coverage has increased – in fact, more than offsetting the declines in private health insurance.” Additionally, I see that Ms. Mingeldorff, with the March of Dimes, recommends that SCHIP be allowed to provide supplemental funds for private insurance. This concept of premium support sounds like an excellent way to help families help themselves, and as I’m sure we all agree that having health insurance is a good thing, I would certainly like to hear more. With the “capped entitlement” nature of SCHIP, states must prioritize coverage of the neediest children that Medicaid does not cover. Unfortunately, some states have extended coverage to adults under their SCHIP program, taking limited dollars away from the needs of the children the program was intended to meet. Currently, 14 states extend SCHIP coverage to adults and four of those states cover more adults than children in their programs. This inequitable development needs to be stopped. Even one dollar spent on an adult is one dollar not spent on a needy child. Some will argue that covering parents increases access to healthcare for kids. That may be, but there is no way that I can go back to my constituents and tell them that SCHIP funds from Texas are being redistributed to other states who will use that money on adults. It doesn’t make sense. Who are we trying to help? The original intent of the program was to cover children, so let’s cover children. Let’s go back to what we originally planned to do. To this end, I have just introduced the SCHIP Equity Act, HR 1013. This bill would ensure that every SCHIP dollar is spent on needy children and pregnant women. It’s only a starting point for these SCHIP discussions, but I believe it’s a necessary one. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses, and I yield back the remainder of my time.
02.28.2007	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD Lack of Diversity in Leadership Positions in NCAA Collegiate Sports February 28, 2007 Thank you Chairman Rush and Ranking Member Stearns. This is my first hearing with this subcommittee, and I consider it an honor and privilege to be here today. I hope that through the leadership and dedication of this subcommittee, we can make real and lasting impacts for our nation. Today’s hearing exemplifies some of the challenges that we still face in America. Glass ceilings should not still be prevalent in the 21st Century, but unfortunately they do still exist. While more needs to be done, it’s important to note that some progress has been made. Out of four schools that I represent, The University of North Texas, Texas Women’s University, Texas Wesleyan University, and North Central Texas College, we have a combined 13 minority head coaches in the 26th District. Texas Wesleyan Table Tennis Head Coach Jasna Reed, who is an African American woman, won the national championship the past 5 years in a row. I am proud of the strides that have been made in diversity in collegiate sports in North Texas, and I encourage the universities to continue to break down the glass ceiling once and for all. Hopefully today’s hearing will enable just that. Mr. Chairman, thank you again for holding this hearing today.
02.28.2007	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE ENERGY AND AIR QUALITY SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING "A Review of the Administration's Energy Proposals for the Transportation Sector" February 28, 2007 Thank you, Mr. Chairman for holding this hearing. I think by now my fellow committee members know that I believe our best bet to decrease consumption of gasoline, at least in the short run, would be to increase the number of hybrid cars on the road. I've owned my Prius now for about 2 years. I've logged a lot of miles across North Texas during the course of that time and there's no telling how much money I've saved on gasoline. But we're here today to talk about CAFE standards. I have some serious reservations about the CAFE system. It forces manufacturers to make cars that no one wants to buy. That's not good for the long-term viability of our auto manufacturers and does nothing to reduce energy consumption. It is consumer demand and consumer choice that will ultimately determine the "fuel economy" of the vehicles that are actually on America's highways and biways. Until consumers realize that there's a direct correlation between energy prices, dependence on foreign oil and their SUVs or other big gas guzzlers, we will not see a change in consumer habits. Today there are more Priuses and other hybrids on the road than there were a year ago, which was more than there were on the road 5 years ago. The market has recognized this increase in demand and now there are even more models available to choose from – including the unofficial car of Texas - hybrid SUVs. The tax incentives for the purchase of hybrid and alternative fueled vehicles in the Energy Bill helped to encourage the purchase of these more fuel efficient cars; but the primary driver behind this trend is consumer demand. I would like to see this committee examine market-based alternatives to the CAFE system. But as long as we are functioning within the CAFE system, I believe that the Bush Administration's "vehicle class" approach makes sense, although I do have some reservations about the work-ability of the credit trading proposal. I would like to note that this proposal is very similar to legislation we considered in this committee during the 109th Congress under the leadership of then-Chairman, and now Ranking Member, Joe Barton. I am looking forward to hearing from our witnesses today on this proposal.
02.16.2007	U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess today announced the 2007 Congressional High School Art Contest, “An Artistic Discovery,” for the 26th Congressional District. Since the U.S. House of Representatives created the competition in 1982, hundreds of thousands of talented high school students have served as artistic ambassadors of their communities. The Twenty-Sixth District Congressional Art Competition is open to home school, public and private high school students residing or attending schools located in the 26th District. The Greater Denton Arts Council co-sponsors the annual event. First prize in the competition is the display of the winning student's artwork in the United States Capitol complex for an entire year. The first place winner and two guests are invited to the nation's capital in the summer to attend a reception opening the 2007 "Artistic Discovery" exhibition which honors the winning artists from all over the country. The cost of attending the ceremony is the responsibility of the competition winner. “The annual Congressional Art Competition brings together the best student artwork from across the 26th District. Having their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol has been a great opportunity for the very gifted North Texas students who have been selected the previous years,” Burgess said. “I look forward to viewing this year’s entries.” Student artists will have their works judged by a professional art educator chosen by the Greater Denton Arts Council. Competition participants, their parents, teachers, school administrators and local officials will be invited to attend a reception with Congressman Burgess to view all the entries on display at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton. All the participants are honored at a recognition ceremony during the reception, and the first place winner and honorable mentions are announced. In addition, this year’s contest marks the inauguration of the “Congressman’s” and “Texas Choice” awards; Congressman Burgess will select one entry to be publicly displayed in his Lewisville District Office for one year. Reception attendees will vote on their favorite for the “Texas Choice” award, which will hang for one year in the Fort Worth District Office. Letters informing 26th District art teachers of deadlines, guidelines and entry forms were sent to high schools this week. Interested students should talk to their art teachers and make arrangements to submit their work as soon as possible. The submission deadline for artwork entries will be 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, March 27th in Burgess’ Lewisville and Fort Worth offices. If you have any questions or to request an information packet, please contact Robin Vaughan in my Lewisville district office at (972) 434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov.
02.15.2007	Today, U.S. Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and Bart Stupak (MI-01) introduced bipartisan legislation to stop insurance companies from denying coverage for injuries incurred while participating in certain legal recreational and transportation activities, such as snowmobiling and horseback riding. “Texans have the luxury to enjoy our vast State and all of the outdoor activities it has to offer,” commented Congressman Burgess. “No one should be denied health insurance benefits because they prefer to drive a motorcycle through the Hill Country. It is essential to provide health care benefits to those who have slipped through the loophole by protecting their access to substantive health care.” The legislation would close a loophole in Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) that denies health care benefits for those who participate in legal transportation and recreational activities. In January 2001, a rule was issued that was intended to ensure non-discrimination in health coverage in the group market. That rule prohibits health plans and issuers from denying coverage to individuals who engage in certain types of recreational activities, such as skiing, horseback riding, snowmobiling or motorcycling. However, because of the way the rule was written, it has allowed insurers to deny health benefits for an otherwise covered injury that results from participation in these activities. “Health insurance companies should not be allowed to discriminate against those who snowmobile,” noted Stupak. “It simply makes no sense to require an insurer to insure individuals who snowmobile, but then deny individuals coverage for certain injuries incurred while snowmobiling. This legislation would enforce Congress’ original intent and ensure recreational enthusiasts are not discriminated against.” Because of this loophole, an individual who was injured while skiing or running could be denied health care coverage, while someone who is injured while drinking and driving a car is protected. Additionally, a plan can exclude coverage for injuries sustained while participating in a recreational activity, even though treatment for those injuries, such as a broken arm, would have been covered under the plan if the individual had tripped in their home. Clearly this is contrary to the intent of the law. “The AMA is excited by the opportunity to work with the great staffs of Representatives Burgess and Stupak, as well as the Energy & Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health to close this loophole once and for all,” stated Edward Moreland, Vice-President of the American Motorcyclists Association (AMA) on the HIPAA Recreational Injury Technical Correction Act. “The leadership shown by Congressman Stupak and Congressman Burgess on this legislation is critical as it moves through the House of Representatives,” stated Duane Taylor, Government Relations Specialist for the Motorcycle Industry Council. Burgess and Stupak both serve on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over health care issues. Last Congress, 94 Representatives co-sponsored the legislation. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Russ Feingold (D-WI) introduced companion legislation in the Senate.
02.15.2007	Bill Title: H.R. 1076, The HIPAA Recreational Injury Technical Correction Act Sponsor: U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Cosponsors: Reps. Stupak, McCotter, Kagen Introduced: Thursday, February 15, 2007 Status: Introduced in the House. Senator Collins introduced the companion bill on Tuesday, February 15, 2007. Why it is needed: The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act prohibited health plans from denying the issuance of health insurance because the covered individual participates in a recreational activity such as motorcycle riding, horseback riding, or snowmobiling. HIPAA closes this discriminatory loophole, allowing health plans to charge higher premiums to these individuals if they see fit. In January 2001, the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service and the Health Care Financing Administration, issued a rule in accordance to the Health Insurance and Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) that was designed to guard against discrimination in coverage in the group health market. These rules prohibited health plans from denying coverage to people who engage in recreational activities like horseback riding and motorcycling. However a loophole was created that allowed insurers to deny payment for services based upon the source of the injury. The rule states that: ``While a person cannot be excluded from a plan for engaging in certain recreational activities, benefits for a particular injury can, in some cases, be excluded based on the source of the injury.'' A plan could, for example, include a general exclusion for injuries sustained while doing a specified list of recreational activities, even though treatment for those injuries, a broken arm for instance, would have been covered under the plan if the individual had tripped and fallen. What it does: This bill would close this loophole that allows health plans to deny payment for covered medical services based solely on the source of injury. Hypothetical example: This loophole creates a situation that is especially unfair to people who ride motorcycles, horses, snowmobiles, or any other form of motorized recreation. Should something extraordinary occur resulting in an injury, these individuals deserve the same consideration when it comes to their medical expenses as every other American. They should not be denied payment for health services for the mere fact that the injury occurred on horseback or on a motorcycle. Specifics on HR 1076: · The bill closes the loophole that allows health plans to deny payment for covered medical services based solely on the source of injury. Groups that Support the Bill: American Motorcyclist Association Motorcycle Riders Foundation Motorcycle Industry Council National Ski Areas Association American Horse Council American Council of Snowmobile Associations For more information, please contact: Michelle Stein, Communications Director Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26)
02.14.2007	H.R. 1040, Freedom Flat Tax Act Sponsor: U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Introduced: Wednesday, February 13, 2007 Cosponsors: Reps. Thelma Drake (R-VA), Sue Myrick (R-NC) Status: Referred to House Committee on Ways and Means Why it is needed: · Each year, Americans spend 6.5 billion hours preparing their tax forms and businesses spend 800 million hours complying with the tax code. · The cost of compliance for federal taxpayers - filling out tax returns and related chores - was $265 billion in 2005. · The average taxpayer pays $1,839 per household in compliance costs. In other words, that taxpayer must work 6 days per year just to pay for the cost of preparing his or her taxes for that year. · 2/3 of Americans think the income tax system is too complex. We need a simpler system for all Americans to understand. Taxpayer phone calls to the IRS help line doubled during 1990s from 56 million to 111 million, even though the number of tax papers only grew by 12 %. · In 2006, the federal tax rules are almost 66,500 pages in length, which is nearly triple the number of pages since the 1970s, including the full tax code, IRS rules and regulations, and tax court rulings. · There are 582 different tax forms published by the IRS, which is up from 402 in the 1990s. · In 1998, 46 tax experts surveyed came up with 46 different answers when determining tax liability. The tax calculations ranged from $34,240 to $68,912. THE FLAT TAX It is SIMPLER – the flat tax will save taxpayers time and money o A flat tax could save taxpayers more than $100 billion per year and reduce tax compliance costs by over 90 percent It is FAIRER – The flat tax will treat everyone the same o Taxpayers who earn the same income will pay the same taxes regardless of income, occupation, or marital status It is PRO-GROWTH – the flat tax will stimulate economic growth o The flat tax repeals the current tax code’s bias against savings and investment. o When saving is no longer penalized, people will save and invest more. What H.R. 1040 does:There are two components to the flat tax - the individual wage tax and the business tax. Under H.R. 1040, both the business and individual tax rate is 19 percent, but it will decline to 17 percent after the initial two years of participating.  Individual Tax - The individual tax base will consist of wages and pensions, and there will be no deductions but will allow for the following personal exemptions: $25,580 for a married couple filing jointly; $16,330 for a single head of household; $12,790 for a single person; and, $5,510 for each dependent. For example: A family of four would not be subject to the flat tax until their combined income reached $36,600, which is 190% above the 2004 federal poverty level of $19,307.  Business Tax - The business tax base will consist of the total costs of taxed inputs subtracted from total sales; only employee wages and pensions will be tax deductible. Additionally, the flat tax will:  Eliminate the marriage penalty  Repeal the death tax  Abolish the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT)  Eliminate capital gains taxes  Allow immediate expensing for business capital equipment
02.14.2007	Bill Title: Medicare Quality Improvement Organization Modernization Act of 2007 Sponsor: U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Introduced: Wednesday, February 14, 2007 Status: Introduced in the House. Why it is needed: In 2006, the Institutes of Medicine made several recommendations on how to improve the coordination of quality improvement activities of Medicare QIOs and improve program accountability. Under the direction of CMS, the Quality Improvement Organization (QIO) Program consists of a national network of 53 QIOs, responsible for each U.S. state, territory, and the District of Columbia. QIOs work with consumers and physicians, hospitals, and other caregivers to refine care delivery systems to make sure patients get the right care at the right time, particularly patients from underserved populations. The Program also safeguards the integrity of the Medicare Trust Fund by ensuring that payment is made only for medically necessary services, and investigates beneficiary complaints about quality of care. The IOM report made several specific recommendations to improve how QIOs work. These recommendations include: · Strengthening evaluation design to better assess the impact of the Program · Strengthening financial oversight and establishing requirements for QIO board governance to assure appropriate use of contractor funds and the representation of key constituencies · Increasing competition for QIO contracts · Enabling QIOs to release information to beneficiaries about QIO findings related to their complaints · Directing QIOs to focus on the local achievement of national quality and efficiency goals, to improve care for beneficiaries with significant medical needs · Directing QIOs to support local initiatives to develop and use information on quality and cost to help beneficiaries, their caregivers, and their health professionals make better choices about their treatment options, and self-care What it does: The bill would improve and modernize Medicare through contracts with Quality Improvement Organizations (QIOs). QIOs would compete for contracts to provide quality assistance. The bill would improve how QIOs interface with patients and providers by providing detailed feedback based on beneficiary complaints and work to improve the quality of health care services. In terms of quality improvement assistance, QIOs would improve data collection, assistance and guidance on Health Information Technology, and assist providers in the improvement of care in rural and frontier areas as well as attempting to reduce racial, ethnic, and gender disparities. Hypothetical example: Texas Medical Foundation, the QIO that serves Texas Medicare providers and beneficiaries could improve their interaction with patients when a complaint occurs as well as working with providers on a more proactive basis to improve the baseline of quality care provided in a multitude of settings. This bill will also give organizations like Texas Medical Foundation more flexibility within their contracts with CMS to adapt to changing expectations and allow them to more responsive to beneficiary complaints through the term of the contract. Specifics on Medicare QIO Modernization Act of 2007: Seeks to improve and modernize Medicare through contracts with Quality Improvement Organizations (QIOs). - QIOs would compete for contracts to provide quality assistance. - They will offer quality improvement assistance to healthcare providers, physicians, Medicare Advantage organizations, and prescription drug sponsors Examples of quality improvement assistance: - instruction on collecting, submitting, and interpreting data - technical assistance in beneficiary education - facilitating adoption of procedures that encourage timely feedback from patients - guidance on redesigning clinical processes, including use of health information technology (HIT) - assistance in improving rural and frontier care, as well as reducing racial, ethnic, and gender disparities - assistance in improving coordination of care among different providers Each QIO will organize a ‘Medicare quality accountability program’ that collects patient feedback on the care they have received. Examples of what a Medicare quality accountability program would do: - educate Medicare beneficiaries of standard quality measures and their rights to voice quality concerns - report investigation findings to the patient (these may not be used in any form in a medical malpractice action) - help providers choose methods for gaining feedback from patients - remedies confirmed complaints - helps providers fix quality problems or refers them to enforcement providers if they are unwilling or unable to improve - publishes annual quality reports in each state Details on oversight of this program: - the Comptroller General of the United States will report on the implementation of this program by March 31, 2010 - QIOs will be provided maximum freedom for innovation in local quality intervention strategies - a strategic advisory committee (including national quality improvement experts, beneficiary representatives, healthcare providers, and organizations holding contracts) will set national strategic priorities for improving the quality of healthcare, and will update these in time to submit a draft statement of work and funding request for each program cycle - the QIO will be evaluated by an outside contractor to optimize assessment of program performance - organizations contracted to the Secretary will be able to share individual-specific data with a physician treating the individual (within HIPAA regulations) Details of QIO contracts: - the contract shall be for an initial term of five years and shall be renewable for each 5 years thereafter - the contract shall be subject to open competition Aggregate funding under contracts shall not be less than $421,666,000, and at least 80% of this shall be expended in support of core contracts Groups that Support the Bill: American Health Quality Association (support letter attached)
02.14.2007	Opening Statement Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health “Covering the Uninsured Through the Eyes of a Child” February 14, 2007 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’d like to start by saying how very sorry I am that my friend and colleague, Charlie Norwood, is no longer with us. He was a great advocate for health throughout his tenure as a Representative and his presence will be sorely missed. I hope we can do his memory justice here today and through the remainder of the 110th Congress. The issue of providing health insurance for uninsured children is a critical one, particularly in my home state of Texas, and I am eager to hear about ways that we can ensure the SCHIP program continues and improves. Overall, I believe the program has been a resounding success. I agree with Rep. Barton that there is broad support for reauthorization, but there is always more that can be done. SCHIP was created in 1997 to provide health insurance for children from low-income families who made too much money to qualify for Medicaid. When SCHIP was created, each state was given three options for program funds: (1) Enroll more children in Medicaid; (2) Create a separate SCHIP program; or (3) Devise a combination of the two. Both Medicaid and SCHIP are federal-state matching programs, but rather than being an automatically funded entitlement program, SCHIP is funded through a block grant with a fixed annual allotment. This means that SCHIP funding does not automatically keep up with rising healthcare costs, but it also means that we are not giving anyone a blank check to spend taxpayer dollars. I appreciate this as a fiscal conservative. Nobody ever solved a problem by simply throwing money at it, and I certainly hope we won’t be doing that here. We may choose to expand SCHIP, yes, but we should also be looking for ways to utilize our existing resources more wisely. I am particularly interested in how private health insurance may interact with SCHIP. I noticed that Mr. Peterson’s testimony indicates that (and I quote) “private health insurance among children has declined while public coverage has increased – in fact, more than offsetting the declines in private health insurance.” Additionally, I see that Ms. Mingeldorff, with the March of Dimes, recommends that SCHIP be allowed to provide supplemental funds for private insurance. This concept of premium support sounds like an excellent way to help families help themselves, and as I’m sure we all agree that having health insurance is a good thing, I would certainly like to hear more. With the “capped entitlement” nature of SCHIP, states must prioritize coverage of the neediest children that Medicaid does not cover. Unfortunately, some states have extended coverage to adults under their SCHIP program, taking limited dollars away from the needs of the children the program was intended to meet. Currently, 14 states extend SCHIP coverage to adults and four of those states cover more adults than children in their programs. This inequitable development needs to be stopped. Even one dollar spent on an adult is one dollar not spent on a needy child. Some will argue that covering parents increases access to healthcare for kids. That may be, but there is no way that I can go back to my constituents and tell them that SCHIP funds from Texas are being redistributed to other states who will use that money on adults. It doesn’t make sense. Who are we trying to help? The original intent of the program was to cover children, so let’s cover children. Let’s go back to what we originally planned to do. To this end, I have just introduced the SCHIP Equity Act, HR 1013. This bill would ensure that every SCHIP dollar is spent on needy children and pregnant women. It’s only a starting point for these SCHIP discussions, but I believe it’s a necessary one. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses, and I yield back the remainder of my time.
02.13.2007	The Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee held a hearing today on The Adequacy of FDA to Assure the Safety of the Drug Supply. Today’s hearing was only a preliminary hearing in which FDA whistleblowers informed the Committee of their observations of the approval process of the drug Ketek. The FDA was not present, nor was the manufacture of Ketek, Sanofi-Aventins. While legitimate questions were raised at the hearing, the Subcommittee needs to complete a full investigation and hear all sides before any conclusions are made. Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD The Adequacy of the FDA to Assure the Safety of Drug Supply February 13, 2007 Thank you Chairman Stupak and Ranking Member Whitfield. This committee has a vital role in providing meaningful oversight and investigations over important public health issues. As a doctor, I take this role extremely serious, and I thank the leadership of this committee for their vigilant pursuit of truth in regards to our nation’s health care matters. Today, we are obviously here to discuss the FDA’s process for the approval of new, and important, drugs—drugs that saves lives. While I appreciate the whistleblower’s being here to discuss their observations of the approval process of Ketek, I do find it curious that the FDA isn’t able to present their side of the story today. The whistleblowers are making serious allegations, and I am disappointed that neither the FDA nor the manufactures of Ketek, Sanofi Aventis, were invited to answer these serious allegations and tell their side of the story. While I do understand that another hearing has been scheduled in March, unfortunately, the damage will be done by then in the press. I would like to remind members of this committee that we must be cautious not to draw any conclusions today. Today is merely the beginning of a preliminary investigation. Today we will only hear one side of the story. We must be cognizant of the fact that the power of oversight is, in effect, the power to destroy; therefore, it is crucial that this issue is fully vetted and all sides are heard before any conclusions are made. Mr. Chairman, as long as we are mindful of this and are truly diligent in our work to obtain real answers, and real conclusions, then I am supportive of this investigation. I yield back the remainder of my time.
02.13.2007	Bill Title: H.R. 1013, SCHIP Equity Act Sponsor: U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) Introduced: Tuesday, February 13, 2007 Status: Referred to House Committee on Energy and Commerce. Why it is needed: State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) was created by Congress in 1997. Since its inception, SCHIP has covered millions of children whose families make too much money to be eligible for Medicaid but often do not have access to affordable health insurance. While enrollment among children has risen, some states, with the complicity of the federal government have used this program to also provide coverage to hundreds of thousands of adults as well. For a program that is designed to cover children and provides capped allocations to states, this move has put pressure on other states struggling to cover just their needy children. For instance, In FY 2005, SCHIP adult enrollment exceeded child enrollment in four states: Arizona (113,621 adults/ 88,005 kids), Michigan (101,283 adults/ 89,257 kids), Minnesota (35,011 adults/ 5076 kids), and Wisconsin (108,808 adults/ 57,165 kids). A total of 14 states cover adults under their SCHIP programs (Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Rhode Island, Virginia, and Wisconsin). Nine of those states will report a shortfall of CHIP funds in 2008, placing pressure on the federal government to take surplus money from other states like Texas that have not quite spent their total annual allocation (but are projected to in the near future). This practice is not equitable to needy children in other states. A dollar spent on a non-pregnant adult is a dollar that isn’t spent on a needy child. States should prioritize spending on needy children and live within their annual allocations instead of taking from other states when their programs run a shortfall. What it does: This bill would end the application of CHIP coverage to adults, except still permitting coverage of pregnant women. Hypothetical example: States such as Minnesota, which covers 35,011 adults, would be required to terminate coverage of these adults under their SCHIP program, unless they are pregnant women. The State of Minnesota would be permitted to cover pregnant women and eligible children and spend their entire annual allotment on those two populations but no other populations. Nothing in the bill says that the State of Minnesota could not set up a program to cover the adults previously covered under their SCHIP program, but they would be prohibited from using federal SCHIP funds to do so. Specifics on H.R. 1013: · The bill prohibits future HHS approval of any state waiver submitted by a state for SCHIP coverage of non-pregnant adults. · The bill terminates portions of state waivers that HHS has approved prior to enactment of the bill that extend coverage to non-pregnant adults. States must eliminate coverage of non-pregnant adults by January 1, 2008. If coverage of non-pregnant adults was part of a multi-purpose waiver, the components not dealing with coverage of non-pregnant adults remain in effect for the duration of the waiver if the waiver does not expire before January 1, 2008.
02.08.2007	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE HEARING February 8, 2007 “Department of Energy's Fiscal Year 2008 Budget Proposal” Mr. Chairman, Thank you for convening this hearing today. One of my most important responsibilities as a Member of Congress is to ensure that my constituents' tax dollars are being spent wisely. It is for that reason that I look forward to the ongoing debate about our national funding priorities. Secretary Bodmin, thank you for appearing before us this morning. As we begin the Fiscal Year 2008 appropriations cycle, it will be helpful to hear from you about the President's Budget request for the Department of Energy. I am especially interested to hear your testimony regarding the President's Proposed "Twenty in Ten" Initiative, as well as the oil and natural gas research programs that have been zeroed out in the President's proposed Budget. Secretary Bodmin, thank you again for appearing before us this morning. I yield back.
02.08.2007	H.R. 927, Biodiesel Tax Credit Sponsor: Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Introduced: February 8, 2007 Status: Referred to House Committee on Ways and Means Why it is needed: Today the U.S. imports nearly 60% of its oil and this number is expected to increase to 75% by 2010. Most of this oil comes from the Middle East and politically unstable nations such as Algeria, Nigeria and Venezuela. Reliance on foreign energy sources undermines our economy and our national security. Home-grown fuels, such as biodiesel, can help move the United States towards greater energy independence. Biodiesel production is currently more expensive than conventional diesel. In 2004/05 it cost $0.67 to produce a gallon of petroleum-based diesel, compared with about $2.54 to produce a gallon of biodiesel from soybean oil, and $1.41 from restaurant grease. Biodiesel appears to have a significantly better net energy balance than ethanol, according to a joint USDA-DOE 1998 study that found biodiesel to have an NEB of 3.2 -- (i.e. 220% more energy was returned from a gallon of pure biodiesel than was used in its production). In contrast, petroleum diesel has an NEB of 0.83 -- (i.e.17% less energy) The American Jobs Creation Act provided an "agri-biodiesel" tax credit of $1.00/gallon for biodiesel from virgin agricultural products and $0.50/gallon for biodiesel from recycled grease through 2006. In addition, it provides an excise tax credit for biodiesel blends. Producers are eligible for one credit or the other, but not both. EPAct of 2005 extended the credits through 2008. Fry Oil to Fuel Biodiesel Industries, located in Denton, Texas runs a "Fry Oil to Fuel" program, which recycles used vegetable oils into biodiesel. Over 130 restaurants, schools, businesses, large kitchens, etc. have signed up to participate. According to Biodiesel Industries, if every U.S. metropolitan area were to implement a similar program, we could reduce oil imports by nearly 10%. · Small restaurant owners typically have to pay for grease collection, but as part of the "Fry Oil to Fuel" program, both the recycling service and the collection container are provided at no cost. · Biodiesel Industries is collecting used cooking oil at a cost of about $2.80 per gallon, which they then process into a biodiesel that they sell at around $2 per gallon wholesale. What H.R. 927 does: Specifically, it doubles the tax credit for making biodiesel from recycled restaurant grease from $.50/gallon to $1.00/gallon, thereby encouraging its production. This reduces petroleum use without removing arable land from food production.
02.07.2007	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) met today with Dr. Anthony Atala of Wake Forest University who has most recently gained media attention for his discovery of amniotic stem cells. Amniotic stem cells are obtained from the fluid surrounding the baby in the womb or from the placenta when the baby is delivered. Either way, collecting them does not harm the infant. Dr. Anthony Atala is a urologist and Director of the Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine. He has worked in the field of tissue engineering for years, and came by to discuss the potential medical applications of his work with the Congressman. What he revealed was remarkable. Dr. Atala explained that most human tissues can actually be grown in the lab without stem cells or cloning, by starting with a small sample of the original tissue. This is how he was able to bioengineer the first bladder to be implanted in a human; the few tissues that we can’t grow like this include liver, pancreas, heart and nervous tissue. This is where stem cells become so useful. Embryonic stem cells have the most potential to develop into any type of cell, but they are difficult to grow and often form tumors, besides coming with an ethical dilemma. The amniotic stem cells that Dr. Atala has described are easier to grow and do not form tumors. They can also replicate without aging in the rapid way that cloned cells do. Dr. Atala’s team was able to differentiate these amniotic stem cells into fat, bone, muscle, liver, and nervous tissue, and all of these tissue types were functional. Because Dr. Atala is meticulous in his experimentation, he often waits 5 years before publishing his work. This allows him to include follow-up information that verifies his claims. His team is currently investigating the treatment of diabetes in animal models, by creating pancreatic tissue that allows the animals to regain the ability to control their blood sugar. The results are very promising and could be life-changing for diabetics all over the world.
01.30.2007	The Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation held another hearing regarding ongoing security concerns at Los Alamos National Laboratory. Unfortunately there have been many security breaches at Los Alamos, and this committee has actively pursued their role as investigator and oversight of Los Alamos for more than a decade. Today’s hearing was prompted by a security breach in September, and Members of this Committee took this opportunity to question many key officials charged with managing Los Alamos, including: Los Alamos National Laboratory Director Michael Anastasio, National Nuclear Security Administration Acting Administrator Thomas D’Agostino, Department of Energy Inspector General Gregory Friedman and Department of Energy Deputy Secretary Clay Sell. Thank you Chairman Stupak and Ranking Member Whitfield for continuing the committee’s important oversight over Los Alamos. Chairman Stupak, I appreciate the bipartisan nature of this hearing and hope it is a sign of how you will handle hearings to come. You and your staff are to be commended for your preparation and willingness to share relevant information with Members across the aisle. Mr. Chairman, it is my sincere hope that we have your commitment to continue this collegial and bipartisan disposition throughout all hearings this Congress. I would also like to take a minute and thank Ranking Member Whitfield for his investigation of Los Alamos throughout the years. Clearly, today’s hearing builds upon the hard work and determination you and your staff have displayed on this crucial matter of national security. I thank you for your leadership on this imperative issue. Today, we have three panels before us that will hopefully be able to explain to us not only what exactly happened in October, but also what has been done to prevent another recurrence. I welcome you all here today, and hope that we can get to the bottom of this continuing problem at Los Alamos once and for all. I would like to especially welcome my fellow Texan, Deputy Secretary Clay Sell. Thank you for being with us today and sharing your valuable insight into the Department of Energy. In the post 9-11 world that we live in today, our national security has become the most important issue facing our nation. We must do everything within our power to ensure that we do not become victims of terrorism again. As terrorist become more and more sophisticated, we must continue to implement and maintain comprehensive measures to secure our safety. While we often think of terrorists being from foreign lands, it is easily plausible that people living on American soil can compromise our country’s national security interest. The fact that someone can walk out of the institution that developed the atomic bomb with a disk full of classified information is deeply disturbing. This is completely unacceptable. Los Alamos has some of the smartest minds in the world, and the reoccurrence of so many security breaches is simply inexcusable. I was taught that people should be held accountable for their actions. While there are many organizational changes that can be made to better ensure the security of our country’s classified information, one of the easiest and most effective remedy is to make the contractor in charge of security pay a deep penalty. As a steward of the taxpayer dollar, I fully support this idea. If the contractor is penalized millions upon millions of dollars, maybe then they will finally recognize how serious of a problem this is and that it must be stopped at all costs. While there is clearly an institutional problem at Los Alamos, we must also remember that there are also thousands of hardworking employees at the lab who make a remarkable contribution to science and the country on a daily basis. In preparation for this hearing, I came across a posting on a well known blog of Los Alamos employees. The posting was addressed to Members of this committee and ended with this thought: Don't give up on us just yet. Please be careful with your words. Direct them at those who are truly at fault, and avoid belittling comments directed against the whole workforce and against the vital work that we can do to help this country. And one more thing. Yes, you do need Los Alamos—a well functioning Los Alamos. I completely agree with this employee, the country needs a well functioning Los Alamos, and that is why we are here today. Mr. Chairman, again I thank you for this bipartisan hearing in which we can further address this troubling issue and what needs to be accomplished to break this horrible cycle of security breaches at Los Alamos.
01.29.2007	United States Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) has earned the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) “Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence” based on the strength of his legislative record during the 109th Congress. Congressman Michael Burgess received the award for his score of 100 for an outstanding voting record in support of his understanding of manufacturing’s critical role in the overall strength of our economy, and a willingness to do what must be done to boost competitiveness, job creation and prosperity for working Americans. For its 109th Congress rating, NAM member companies tracked a series of votes on key pieces of legislation, including health information technology, the Energy Policy Act, permanent repeal of the death tax, and medical liability reform. The National Association of Manufacturers is the nation’s largest industrial trade association, representing small and large manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states. Headquartered in Washington, D.C., the NAM has 10 additional offices across the country. Visit the NAM’s award-winning Web site at www.nam.org for more information about manufacturing and the economy.
01.24.2007	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. commented on the State of the Union Address on the following programs. Please click on each individual link to access the file. Jon-David Wells Show01/23/2007 State of the Union (Preview)Jeff Bolten Show01/24/2007 State of the Union Mark Davis Show01/24/2007 State of the Union Alan Nathan: State of the Union01/26/2007 Alan Nathan: State of the Union President Bush Delivers State of the Union Address United States CapitolWashington, D.C. State of the Union 2007 2007 State of the Union Policy Initiatives 9:13 P.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. And tonight, I have a high privilege and distinct honor of my own -- as the first President to begin the State of the Union message with these words: Madam Speaker. (Applause.) In his day, the late Congressman Thomas D'Alesandro, Jr. from Baltimore, Maryland, saw Presidents Roosevelt and Truman at this rostrum. But nothing could compare with the sight of his only daughter, Nancy, presiding tonight as Speaker of the House of Representatives. (Applause.) Congratulations, Madam Speaker. (Applause.) Two members of the House and Senate are not with us tonight, and we pray for the recovery and speedy return of Senator Tim Johnson and Congressman Charlie Norwood. (Applause.) Madam Speaker, Vice President Cheney, members of Congress, distinguished guests, and fellow citizens: The rite of custom brings us together at a defining hour -- when decisions are hard and courage is needed. We enter the year 2007 with large endeavors underway, and others that are ours to begin. In all of this, much is asked of us. We must have the will to face difficult challenges and determined enemies -- and the wisdom to face them together. Some in this chamber are new to the House and the Senate -- and I congratulate the Democrat majority. (Applause.) Congress has changed, but not our responsibilities. Each of us is guided by our own convictions -- and to these we must stay faithful. Yet we're all held to the same standards, and called to serve the same good purposes: To extend this nation's prosperity; to spend the people's money wisely; to solve problems, not leave them to future generations; to guard America against all evil; and to keep faith with those we have sent forth to defend us. (Applause.) We're not the first to come here with a government divided and uncertainty in the air. Like many before us, we can work through our differences, and achieve big things for the American people. Our citizens don't much care which side of the aisle we sit on -- as long as we're willing to cross that aisle when there is work to be done. (Applause.) Our job is to make life better for our fellow Americans, and to help them to build a future of hope and opportunity -- and this is the business before us tonight. A future of hope and opportunity begins with a growing economy -- and that is what we have. We're now in the 41st month of uninterrupted job growth, in a recovery that has created 7.2 million new jobs -- so far. Unemployment is low, inflation is low, and wages are rising. This economy is on the move, and our job is to keep it that way, not with more government, but with more enterprise. (Applause.) Next week, I'll deliver a full report on the state of our economy. Tonight, I want to discuss three economic reforms that deserve to be priorities for this Congress. First, we must balance the federal budget. (Applause.) We can do so without raising taxes. (Applause.) What we need is impose spending discipline in Washington, D.C. We set a goal of cutting the deficit in half by 2009, and met that goal three years ahead of schedule. (Applause.) Now let us take the next step. In the coming weeks, I will submit a budget that eliminates the federal deficit within the next five years. (Applause.) I ask you to make the same commitment. Together, we can restrain the spending appetite of the federal government, and we can balance the federal budget. (Applause.) Next, there is the matter of earmarks. These special interest items are often slipped into bills at the last hour -- when not even C-SPAN is watching. (Laughter.) In 2005 alone, the number of earmarks grew to over 13,000 and totaled nearly $18 billion. Even worse, over 90 percent of earmarks never make it to the floor of the House and Senate -- they are dropped into committee reports that are not even part of the bill that arrives on my desk. You didn't vote them into law. I didn't sign them into law. Yet, they're treated as if they have the force of law. The time has come to end this practice. So let us work together to reform the budget process, expose every earmark to the light of day and to a vote in Congress, and cut the number and cost of earmarks at least in half by the end of this session. (Applause.) And, finally, to keep this economy strong we must take on the challenge of entitlements. Social Security and Medicare and Medicaid are commitments of conscience, and so it is our duty to keep them permanently sound. Yet, we're failing in that duty. And this failure will one day leave our children with three bad options: huge tax increases, huge deficits, or huge and immediate cuts in benefits. Everyone in this chamber knows this to be true -- yet somehow we have not found it in ourselves to act. So let us work together and do it now. With enough good sense and goodwill, you and I can fix Medicare and Medicaid -- and save Social Security. (Applause.) Spreading opportunity and hope in America also requires public schools that give children the knowledge and character they need in life. Five years ago, we rose above partisan differences to pass the No Child Left Behind Act, preserving local control, raising standards, and holding those schools accountable for results. And because we acted, students are performing better in reading and math, and minority students are closing the achievement gap. Now the task is to build on the success, without watering down standards, without taking control from local communities, and without backsliding and calling it reform. We can lift student achievement even higher by giving local leaders flexibility to turn around failing schools, and by giving families with children stuck in failing schools the right to choose someplace better. (Applause.) We must increase funds for students who struggle -- and make sure these children get the special help they need. (Applause.) And we can make sure our children are prepared for the jobs of the future and our country is more competitive by strengthening math and science skills. The No Child Left Behind Act has worked for America's children -- and I ask Congress to reauthorize this good law. (Applause.) A future of hope and opportunity requires that all our citizens have affordable and available health care. (Applause.) When it comes to health care, government has an obligation to care for the elderly, the disabled, and poor children. And we will meet those responsibilities. For all other Americans, private health insurance is the best way to meet their needs. (Applause.) But many Americans cannot afford a health insurance policy. And so tonight, I propose two new initiatives to help more Americans afford their own insurance. First, I propose a standard tax deduction for health insurance that will be like the standard tax deduction for dependents. Families with health insurance will pay no income on payroll tax -- or payroll taxes on $15,000 of their income. Single Americans with health insurance will pay no income or payroll taxes on $7,500 of their income. With this reform, more than 100 million men, women, and children who are now covered by employer-provided insurance will benefit from lower tax bills. At the same time, this reform will level the playing field for those who do not get health insurance through their job. For Americans who now purchase health insurance on their own, this proposal would mean a substantial tax savings -- $4,500 for a family of four making $60,000 a year. And for the millions of other Americans who have no health insurance at all, this deduction would help put a basic private health insurance plan within their reach. Changing the tax code is a vital and necessary step to making health care affordable for more Americans. (Applause.) My second proposal is to help the states that are coming up with innovative ways to cover the uninsured. States that make basic private health insurance available to all their citizens should receive federal funds to help them provide this coverage to the poor and the sick. I have asked the Secretary of Health and Human Services to work with Congress to take existing federal funds and use them to create "Affordable Choices" grants. These grants would give our nation's governors more money and more flexibility to get private health insurance to those most in need. There are many other ways that Congress can help. We need to expand Health Savings Accounts. (Applause.) We need to help small businesses through Association Health Plans. (Applause.) We need to reduce costs and medical errors with better information technology. (Applause.) We will encourage price transparency. And to protect good doctors from junk lawsuits, we passing medical liability reform. (Applause.) In all we do, we must remember that the best health care decisions are made not by government and insurance companies, but by patients and their doctors. (Applause.) Extending hope and opportunity in our country requires an immigration system worthy of America -- with laws that are fair and borders that are secure. When laws and borders are routinely violated, this harms the interests of our country. To secure our border, we're doubling the size of the Border Patrol, and funding new infrastructure and technology. Yet even with all these steps, we cannot fully secure the border unless we take pressure off the border -- and that requires a temporary worker program. We should establish a legal and orderly path for foreign workers to enter our country to work on a temporary basis. As a result, they won't have to try to sneak in, and that will leave Border Agents free to chase down drug smugglers and criminals and terrorists. (Applause.) We'll enforce our immigration laws at the work site and give employers the tools to verify the legal status of their workers, so there's no excuse left for violating the law. (Applause.) We need to uphold the great tradition of the melting pot that welcomes and assimilates new arrivals. (Applause.) We need to resolve the status of the illegal immigrants who are already in our country without animosity and without amnesty. (Applause.) Convictions run deep in this Capitol when it comes to immigration. Let us have a serious, civil, and conclusive debate, so that you can pass, and I can sign, comprehensive immigration reform into law. (Applause.) Extending hope and opportunity depends on a stable supply of energy that keeps America's economy running and America's environment clean. For too long our nation has been dependent on foreign oil. And this dependence leaves us more vulnerable to hostile regimes, and to terrorists -- who could cause huge disruptions of oil shipments, and raise the price of oil, and do great harm to our economy. It's in our vital interest to diversify America's energy supply -- the way forward is through technology. We must continue changing the way America generates electric power, by even greater use of clean coal technology, solar and wind energy, and clean, safe nuclear power. (Applause.) We need to press on with battery research for plug-in and hybrid vehicles, and expand the use of clean diesel vehicles and biodiesel fuel. (Applause.) We must continue investing in new methods of producing ethanol -- (applause) -- using everything from wood chips to grasses, to agricultural wastes. We made a lot of progress, thanks to good policies here in Washington and the strong response of the market. And now even more dramatic advances are within reach. Tonight, I ask Congress to join me in pursuing a great goal. Let us build on the work we've done and reduce gasoline usage in the United States by 20 percent in the next 10 years. (Applause.) When we do that we will have cut our total imports by the equivalent of three-quarters of all the oil we now import from the Middle East. To reach this goal, we must increase the supply of alternative fuels, by setting a mandatory fuels standard to require 35 billion gallons of renewable and alternative fuels in 2017 -- and that is nearly five times the current target. (Applause.) At the same time, we need to reform and modernize fuel economy standards for cars the way we did for light trucks -- and conserve up to 8.5 billion more gallons of gasoline by 2017. Achieving these ambitious goals will dramatically reduce our dependence on foreign oil, but it's not going to eliminate it. And so as we continue to diversify our fuel supply, we must step up domestic oil production in environmentally sensitive ways. (Applause.) And to further protect America against severe disruptions to our oil supply, I ask Congress to double the current capacity of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. (Applause.) America is on the verge of technological breakthroughs that will enable us to live our lives less dependent on oil. And these technologies will help us be better stewards of the environment, and they will help us to confront the serious challenge of global climate change. (Applause.) A future of hope and opportunity requires a fair, impartial system of justice. The lives of our citizens across our nation are affected by the outcome of cases pending in our federal courts. We have a shared obligation to ensure that the federal courts have enough judges to hear those cases and deliver timely rulings. As President, I have a duty to nominate qualified men and women to vacancies on the federal bench. And the United States Senate has a duty, as well, to give those nominees a fair hearing, and a prompt up-or-down vote on the Senate floor. (Applause.) For all of us in this room, there is no higher responsibility than to protect the people of this country from danger. Five years have come and gone since we saw the scenes and felt the sorrow that the terrorists can cause. We've had time to take stock of our situation. We've added many critical protections to guard the homeland. We know with certainty that the horrors of that September morning were just a glimpse of what the terrorists intend for us -- unless we stop them. With the distance of time, we find ourselves debating the causes of conflict and the course we have followed. Such debates are essential when a great democracy faces great questions. Yet one question has surely been settled: that to win the war on terror we must take the fight to the enemy. (Applause.) From the start, America and our allies have protected our people by staying on the offense. The enemy knows that the days of comfortable sanctuary, easy movement, steady financing, and free flowing communications are long over. For the terrorists, life since 9/11 has never been the same. Our success in this war is often measured by the things that did not happen. We cannot know the full extent of the attacks that we and our allies have prevented, but here is some of what we do know: We stopped an al Qaeda plot to fly a hijacked airplane into the tallest building on the West Coast. We broke up a Southeast Asian terror cell grooming operatives for attacks inside the United States. We uncovered an al Qaeda cell developing anthrax to be used in attacks against America. And just last August, British authorities uncovered a plot to blow up passenger planes bound for America over the Atlantic Ocean. For each life saved, we owe a debt of gratitude to the brave public servants who devote their lives to finding the terrorists and stopping them. (Applause.) Every success against the terrorists is a reminder of the shoreless ambitions of this enemy. The evil that inspired and rejoiced in 9/11 is still at work in the world. And so long as that's the case, America is still a nation at war. In the mind of the terrorist, this war began well before September the 11th, and will not end until their radical vision is fulfilled. And these past five years have given us a much clearer view of the nature of this enemy. Al Qaeda and its followers are Sunni extremists, possessed by hatred and commanded by a harsh and narrow ideology. Take almost any principle of civilization, and their goal is the opposite. They preach with threats, instruct with bullets and bombs, and promise paradise for the murder of the innocent. Our enemies are quite explicit about their intentions. They want to overthrow moderate governments, and establish safe havens from which to plan and carry out new attacks on our country. By killing and terrorizing Americans, they want to force our country to retreat from the world and abandon the cause of liberty. They would then be free to impose their will and spread their totalitarian ideology. Listen to this warning from the late terrorist Zarqawi: "We will sacrifice our blood and bodies to put an end to your dreams, and what is coming is even worse." Osama bin Laden declared: "Death is better than living on this Earth with the unbelievers among us." These men are not given to idle words, and they are just one camp in the Islamist radical movement. In recent times, it has also become clear that we face an escalating danger from Shia extremists who are just as hostile to America, and are also determined to dominate the Middle East. Many are known to take direction from the regime in Iran, which is funding and arming terrorists like Hezbollah -- a group second only to al Qaeda in the American lives it has taken. The Shia and Sunni extremists are different faces of the same totalitarian threat. Whatever slogans they chant, when they slaughter the innocent they have the same wicked purposes. They want to kill Americans, kill democracy in the Middle East, and gain the weapons to kill on an even more horrific scale. In the sixth year since our nation was attacked, I wish I could report to you that the dangers had ended. They have not. And so it remains the policy of this government to use every lawful and proper tool of intelligence, diplomacy, law enforcement, and military action to do our duty, to find these enemies, and to protect the American people. (Applause.) This war is more than a clash of arms -- it is a decisive ideological struggle, and the security of our nation is in the balance. To prevail, we must remove the conditions that inspire blind hatred, and drove 19 men to get onto airplanes and to come and kill us. What every terrorist fears most is human freedom -- societies where men and women make their own choices, answer to their own conscience, and live by their hopes instead of their resentments. Free people are not drawn to violent and malignant ideologies -- and most will choose a better way when they're given a chance. So we advance our own security interests by helping moderates and reformers and brave voices for democracy. The great question of our day is whether America will help men and women in the Middle East to build free societies and share in the rights of all humanity. And I say, for the sake of our own security, we must. (Applause.) In the last two years, we've seen the desire for liberty in the broader Middle East -- and we have been sobered by the enemy's fierce reaction. In 2005, the world watched as the citizens of Lebanon raised the banner of the Cedar Revolution, they drove out the Syrian occupiers and chose new leaders in free elections. In 2005, the people of Afghanistan defied the terrorists and elected a democratic legislature. And in 2005, the Iraqi people held three national elections, choosing a transitional government, adopting the most progressive, democratic constitution in the Arab world, and then electing a government under that constitution. Despite endless threats from the killers in their midst, nearly 12 million Iraqi citizens came out to vote in a show of hope and solidarity that we should never forget. (Applause.) A thinking enemy watched all of these scenes, adjusted their tactics, and in 2006 they struck back. In Lebanon, assassins took the life of Pierre Gemayel, a prominent participant in the Cedar Revolution. Hezbollah terrorists, with support from Syria and Iran, sowed conflict in the region and are seeking to undermine Lebanon's legitimately elected government. In Afghanistan, Taliban and al Qaeda fighters tried to regain power by regrouping and engaging Afghan and NATO forces. In Iraq, al Qaeda and other Sunni extremists blew up one of the most sacred places in Shia Islam -- the Golden Mosque of Samarra. This atrocity, directed at a Muslim house of prayer, was designed to provoke retaliation from Iraqi Shia -- and it succeeded. Radical Shia elements, some of whom receive support from Iran, formed death squads. The result was a tragic escalation of sectarian rage and reprisal that continues to this day. This is not the fight we entered in Iraq, but it is the fight we're in. Every one of us wishes this war were over and won. Yet it would not be like us to leave our promises unkept, our friends abandoned, and our own security at risk. (Applause.) Ladies and gentlemen: On this day, at this hour, it is still within our power to shape the outcome of this battle. Let us find our resolve, and turn events toward victory. (Applause.) We're carrying out a new strategy in Iraq -- a plan that demands more from Iraq's elected government, and gives our forces in Iraq the reinforcements they need to complete their mission. Our goal is a democratic Iraq that upholds the rule of law, respects the rights of its people, provides them security, and is an ally in the war on terror. In order to make progress toward this goal, the Iraqi government must stop the sectarian violence in its capital. But the Iraqis are not yet ready to do this on their own. So we're deploying reinforcements of more than 20,000 additional soldiers and Marines to Iraq. The vast majority will go to Baghdad, where they will help Iraqi forces to clear and secure neighborhoods, and serve as advisers embedded in Iraqi Army units. With Iraqis in the lead, our forces will help secure the city by chasing down the terrorists, insurgents, and the roaming death squads. And in Anbar Province, where al Qaeda terrorists have gathered and local forces have begun showing a willingness to fight them, we're sending an additional 4,000 United States Marines, with orders to find the terrorists and clear them out. (Applause.) We didn't drive al Qaeda out of their safe haven in Afghanistan only to let them set up a new safe haven in a free Iraq. The people of Iraq want to live in peace, and now it's time for their government to act. Iraq's leaders know that our commitment is not open-ended. They have promised to deploy more of their own troops to secure Baghdad -- and they must do so. They pledged that they will confront violent radicals of any faction or political party -- and they need to follow through, and lift needless restrictions on Iraqi and coalition forces, so these troops can achieve their mission of bringing security to all of the people of Baghdad. Iraq's leaders have committed themselves to a series of benchmarks -- to achieve reconciliation, to share oil revenues among all of Iraq's citizens, to put the wealth of Iraq into the rebuilding of Iraq, to allow more Iraqis to re-enter their nation's civic life, to hold local elections, and to take responsibility for security in every Iraqi province. But for all of this to happen, Baghdad must be secure. And our plan will help the Iraqi government take back its capital and make good on its commitments. My fellow citizens, our military commanders and I have carefully weighed the options. We discussed every possible approach. In the end, I chose this course of action because it provides the best chance for success. Many in this chamber understand that America must not fail in Iraq, because you understand that the consequences of failure would be grievous and far-reaching. If American forces step back before Baghdad is secure, the Iraqi government would be overrun by extremists on all sides. We could expect an epic battle between Shia extremists backed by Iran, and Sunni extremists aided by al Qaeda and supporters of the old regime. A contagion of violence could spill out across the country -- and in time, the entire region could be drawn into the conflict. For America, this is a nightmare scenario. For the enemy, this is the objective. Chaos is the greatest ally -- their greatest ally in this struggle. And out of chaos in Iraq would emerge an emboldened enemy with new safe havens, new recruits, new resources, and an even greater determination to harm America. To allow this to happen would be to ignore the lessons of September the 11th and invite tragedy. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing is more important at this moment in our history than for America to succeed in the Middle East, to succeed in Iraq and to spare the American people from this danger. (Applause.) This is where matters stand tonight, in the here and now. I have spoken with many of you in person. I respect you and the arguments you've made. We went into this largely united, in our assumptions and in our convictions. And whatever you voted for, you did not vote for failure. Our country is pursuing a new strategy in Iraq, and I ask you to give it a chance to work. And I ask you to support our troops in the field, and those on their way. (Applause.) The war on terror we fight today is a generational struggle that will continue long after you and I have turned our duties over to others. And that's why it's important to work together so our nation can see this great effort through. Both parties and both branches should work in close consultation. It's why I propose to establish a special advisory council on the war on terror, made up of leaders in Congress from both political parties. We will share ideas for how to position America to meet every challenge that confronts us. We'll show our enemies abroad that we are united in the goal of victory. And one of the first steps we can take together is to add to the ranks of our military so that the American Armed Forces are ready for all the challenges ahead. (Applause.) Tonight I ask the Congress to authorize an increase in the size of our active Army and Marine Corps by 92,000 in the next five years. (Applause.) A second task we can take on together is to design and establish a volunteer Civilian Reserve Corps. Such a corps would function much like our military reserve. It would ease the burden on the Armed Forces by allowing us to hire civilians with critical skills to serve on missions abroad when America needs them. It would give people across America who do not wear the uniform a chance to serve in the defining struggle of our time. Americans can have confidence in the outcome of this struggle because we're not in this struggle alone. We have a diplomatic strategy that is rallying the world to join in the fight against extremism. In Iraq, multinational forces are operating under a mandate from the United Nations. We're working with Jordan and Saudi Arabia and Egypt and the Gulf States to increase support for Iraq's government. The United Nations has imposed sanctions on Iran, and made it clear that the world will not allow the regime in Tehran to acquire nuclear weapons. (Applause.) With the other members of the Quartet -- the U.N., the European Union, and Russia -- we're pursuing diplomacy to help bring peace to the Holy Land, and pursuing the establishment of a democratic Palestinian state living side-by-side with Israel in peace and security. (Applause.) In Afghanistan, NATO has taken the lead in turning back the Taliban and al Qaeda offensive -- the first time the Alliance has deployed forces outside the North Atlantic area. Together with our partners in China, Japan, Russia, and South Korea, we're pursuing intensive diplomacy to achieve a Korean Peninsula free of nuclear weapons. (Applause.) We will continue to speak out for the cause of freedom in places like Cuba, Belarus, and Burma -- and continue to awaken the conscience of the world to save the people of Darfur. (Applause.) American foreign policy is more than a matter of war and diplomacy. Our work in the world is also based on a timeless truth: To whom much is given, much is required. We hear the call to take on the challenges of hunger and poverty and disease -- and that is precisely what America is doing. We must continue to fight HIV/AIDS, especially on the continent of Africa. (Applause.) Because you funded our Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, the number of people receiving life-saving drugs has grown from 50,000 to more than 800,000 in three short years. I ask you to continue funding our efforts to fight HIV/AIDS. I ask you to provide $1.2 billion over five years so we can combat malaria in 15 African countries. (Applause.) I ask that you fund the Millennium Challenge Account, so that American aid reaches the people who need it, in nations where democracy is on the rise and corruption is in retreat. And let us continue to support the expanded trade and debt relief that are the best hope for lifting lives and eliminating poverty. (Applause.) When America serves others in this way, we show the strength and generosity of our country. These deeds reflect the character of our people. The greatest strength we have is the heroic kindness, courage, and self-sacrifice of the American people. You see this spirit often if you know where to look -- and tonight we need only look above to the gallery. Dikembe Mutombo grew up in Africa, amid great poverty and disease. He came to Georgetown University on a scholarship to study medicine -- but Coach John Thompson got a look at Dikembe and had a different idea. (Laughter.) Dikembe became a star in the NBA, and a citizen of the United States. But he never forgot the land of his birth, or the duty to share his blessings with others. He built a brand new hospital in his old hometown. A friend has said of this good-hearted man: "Mutombo believes that God has given him this opportunity to do great things." And we are proud to call this son of the Congo a citizen of the United States of America. (Applause.) After her daughter was born, Julie Aigner-Clark searched for ways to share her love of music and art with her child. So she borrowed some equipment, and began filming children's videos in her basement. The Baby Einstein Company was born, and in just five years her business grew to more than $20 million in sales. In November 2001, Julie sold Baby Einstein to the Walt Disney Company, and with her help Baby Einstein has grown into a $200 million business. Julie represents the great enterprising spirit of America. And she is using her success to help others -- producing child safety videos with John Walsh of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. Julie says of her new project: "I believe it's the most important thing that I have ever done. I believe that children have the right to live in a world that is safe." And so tonight, we are pleased to welcome this talented business entrepreneur and generous social entrepreneur -- Julie Aigner-Clark. (Applause.) Three weeks ago, Wesley Autrey was waiting at a Harlem subway station with his two little girls, when he saw a man fall into the path of a train. With seconds to act, Wesley jumped onto the tracks, pulled the man into the space between the rails, and held him as the train passed right above their heads. He insists he's not a hero. He says: "We got guys and girls overseas dying for us to have our freedoms. We have got to show each other some love." There is something wonderful about a country that produces a brave and humble man like Wesley Autrey. (Applause.) Tommy Rieman was a teenager pumping gas in Independence, Kentucky, when he enlisted in the United States Army. In December 2003, he was on a reconnaissance mission in Iraq when his team came under heavy enemy fire. From his Humvee, Sergeant Rieman returned fire; he used his body as a shield to protect his gunner. He was shot in the chest and arm, and received shrapnel wounds to his legs -- yet he refused medical attention, and stayed in the fight. He helped to repel a second attack, firing grenades at the enemy's position. For his exceptional courage, Sergeant Rieman was awarded the Silver Star. And like so many other Americans who have volunteered to defend us, he has earned the respect and the gratitude of our entire country. (Applause.) In such courage and compassion, ladies and gentlemen, we see the spirit and character of America -- and these qualities are not in short supply. This is a decent and honorable country -- and resilient, too. We've been through a lot together. We've met challenges and faced dangers, and we know that more lie ahead. Yet we can go forward with confidence -- because the State of our Union is strong, our cause in the world is right, and tonight that cause goes on. God bless. (Applause.) See you next year. Thank you for your prayers.
01.23.2007	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) spoke at the National Automobile Dealers Association (NADA) ENERGY STAR event during the District of Columbia’s annual Auto Show. NADA and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced that they have joined the Energy Star Challenge and are encouraging their 20,000 automobile member dealerships to reduce energy use at more than 43,000 facilities nationwide by 10 percent or more. If auto dealerships reduced energy use by 10 percent they would save nearly $193 million and prevent over 1 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions. Congressman Burgess, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee who also sits as a member of the Energy Subcommittee, gave the following remarks: “Today the U.S. imports nearly 60% of its oil and this number is expected to increase to 75% by 2010. Most of this oil comes from the Middle East and politically unstable nations such as Algeria, Nigeria and Venezuela. Reliance on foreign energy sources undermines our economy and our national security. “For this reason, conservation must be an important part of our strategy to wean ourselves from our dependence on foreign energy. Not only does conservation save energy, it also saves money. “In McKinney, Texas, just down the road from my district, Wal-Mart has constructed one of its two “green” stores. I toured the facility last January and was impressed with what I saw. Wal-Mart estimates that the conservation measures in place save them approximately $40,000 per month in energy costs. It is a marvelous idea, and the practical application of constructing buildings to be energy efficient is the future. “My wife and I recently downsized and built a new home in Flower Mound, Texas. We incorporated a number of energy efficient technologies, including smart thermostats, double pane Low E windows, energy efficient ducts, and zoned air conditioning. “My wife, who is the architect who designed the house for us, actually got a little upset with me when I delayed the project for a few weeks in order to add additional foam insulation in the walls. We've also purchased Energy Star appliances for our kitchen and laundry room. “As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I was pleased to support the Energy Policy Act, which was signed into law by President Bush in August 2005. The Energy bill included a number of provisions that encourage the use of efficient products and conservation measures. The bill also created incentives for energy efficiency improvements to existing homes and a business tax credit for construction of new energy efficient homes. “I am also strongly supportive of hybrid and alternative-fueled vehicles. When I am at home, I drive a hybrid vehicle. I've logged a lot of miles across North Texas during the course of that time and there's no telling how much money I've saved on gasoline. Today there are more hybrids on the road than there were a year ago, which was more than there were on the road 5 years ago. The market has recognized this increase in demand and now there are even more models available to choose from – including the unofficial car of Texas - hybrid SUVs. “Today, the National Automobile Dealers Association has announced its participation in the EPA's Energy Star Challenge, which calls for increasing the energy efficiency of buildings in America by 10% or more. I'm pleased that, in addition to making a greater number of fuel-efficient vehicles available for consumers, the auto-dealers are working to make their facilities more efficient. “The Energy Star Challenge is truly an example of the power of how a public-private partnership can help to save energy. In 2005, more than 2,500 buildings, representing 480 million square feet, earned the Energy Star for Businesses and public institutions can earn the ENERGY STAR for superior energy and environmental performance, saving their owners an estimated 35 percent less energy -- or $350 million annually, relative to typical buildings. As we have learned today, NADA estimates that if its dealerships meet the ENERGY STAR Challenge, they can save nearly $193 million and prevent over 1 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions. “Another, highly successful public-private partnership is Biodiesel Industries' landfill-methane powered biodiesel plant at the Denton City Dump. The plant opened in March 2005 and the fuel produced is used by the City of Denton's entire diesel fleet. In fact, this facility received the Project of the Year Award from the EPA's Landfill Methane Outreach Program in 2005. Biodiesel Industries takes its commitment to renewable energy even further and has developed technology that allows it to use a variety of feedstock, including recycled restaurant grease, to make fuel. “I strongly believe that public-private partnerships to reduce energy use, such as these, can help us to reduce our dependence on foreign energy and to clean our environment. I applaud the National Automobile Dealers Association for their commitment to reducing energy consumption in America.”
01.18.2007	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) joined the newly formed, bipartisan, the Congressional Anti-Terrorism Caucus co-chaired by fellow North Texas Member, Rep. Kay Granger. “Since 9/11, the term “terrorist” has been bantered about by the media,” said Rep. Michael Burgess. “But it is important for everyone to be educated about what motivates these individuals and groups to carry out such aggressive and deadly actions. We must know our enemy better in order to defeat him.” The Congressional Anti-Terrorism Caucus’s mission statement states that terrorism is not a Democrat or Republican problem; it is a critical issue for all Americans. Today, Congressman Burgess attended the first meeting where Mary Habeck, author of Knowing the Enemy addressed the Members. Professor Habeck teaches at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. “Terrorism is not an individual act; it is a modus operandi prompted by ill-conceived and destructive beliefs,” said Rep. Burgess. “Terrorism is not a new concept, but today we are better equipped to understand them and conqueror them.”
01.10.2007	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) continues his service as a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee for the 110th Congress. He has been selected to sit on four subcommittees including the Heath; Energy and Air Quality; Oversight and Investigations; and Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. Elected in 2002, Congressman Burgess served on the House Transportation and Infrastructure, Government Reform and Science Committees during his first term. Re-elected in 2004, the Republican Steering Committee assigned Congressman Burgess a seat on the prestigious House Energy and Commerce Committee. The Energy and Commerce Committee is one of only a few exclusive committees in the House of Representatives. Its jurisdiction is arguably the broadest, non-tax-oriented jurisdiction of any Congressional committee. It maintains principal responsibility for legislative oversight relating to public health, air quality and environmental health, the supply and delivery of energy, telecommunications, and interstate and foreign commerce. This jurisdiction extends over five Cabinet-level departments and seven independent agencies--from the Energy, Health and Human Services, and Transportation Departments to the Federal Trade Commission, Food and Drug Administration, and the Federal Communications Commission. “As a physician, my first choice for a committee assignment was Energy and Commerce because of its breadth of influence over health care legislation,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “I will be introducing legislation during the 110th Congress that will bring affordable health care to Americans and transparency to the entire system. My subcommittee assignments ideally suit my legislative priorities.” In addition to his service on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Congressman Michael Burgess has been named the sole Vice Chairman for the Republican House Policy Committee which serves as a formal council to formulate and implement national legislative priorities, and to improve relationships between the executive and legislative branches of government. “The Policy Committee provides an avenue for every member of the Conference to transform sensible ideas into sound legislation,” said Congressman Burgess. “It offers a unique opportunity for participation by members whose legislative ideas do not, in every case, coincide with their committee assignments.”
01.10.2007	The following statement may be attributed to U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) concerning the introduction of his bill, H.R. 377, Insuring Families for Their Future Act on January 10, 2007: “Families are the cornerstone of our society. It is our families that we turn to in times of joy and times of sorrow. The loss of any family member can be one of the most painful and difficult experiences that anyone can go through. The loss of a parent can be especially devastating for a child. “The last thing that any family needs to worry about during this time of sorrow is whether or not they will be able to stay together. Yet if the loved one who has passed away is the family's primary income source, this may be very real worry for thousands of families. “In 1964, Congress acted to protect families in this difficult situation by encouraging employers to provide a certain amount of life insurance coverage for their employees. The Revenue Act of 1964 (P.L. 88-272) allowed employees to exempt the premium costs of their employer-sponsored group term life insurance up to $50,000, but required individuals to pay an imputed income tax on the premium costs over that $50,000 cap. “The value of the current $50,000 cap has eroded over time because it was not indexed to inflation. If you were to index $50,000 in 1964 to today, you would find that to keep pace with inflation, the current cap should be set at $320,000. “My bill, H.R. 3777, the Insuring Families for the Future Act would raise the cap to $320,000 and index it to future inflation, thereby encouraging employers to provide a larger life insurance benefit to their employees. “This legislation will ensure that families can stay together during this time of sorrow.” H.R. 377, Insuring Families for Their Future Act Sponsor: Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Introduced: January 10, 2007 Status: Referred to House Committee on Ways and Means Why it is needed: Families are the cornerstone of our society. It is our families that we turn to in times of joy and times of sorrow. The loss of any family member can be one of the most painful and difficult experiences that anyone can go through. The loss of a parent can be especially devastating for a child. The last thing that any family needs to worry about during this time of sorrow is whether or not they will be able to stay together. Yet if the loved one who has passed away is the family's primary income source, this may be very real worry for thousands of families. In 1964, Congress acted to protect families in this difficult situation by encouraging employers to provide a certain amount of life insurance coverage for their employees. The Revenue Act of 1964 (P.L. 88-272) allowed employees to exempt the premium costs of their employer-sponsored group term life insurance up to $50,000, but required individuals to pay an imputed income tax on the premium costs over that $50,000 cap. The value of the current $50,000 cap has eroded over time because it was not indexed to inflation. If you were to index $50,000 in 1964 to today, you would find that to keep pace with inflation, the current cap should be set at $320,000. What it does: The Insuring Families for the Future Act would raise the cap to $320,000 and index it to future inflation, thereby encouraging employers to provide a larger life insurance benefit to their employees.
01.08.2007	Why the Government SHOULD NOT Negotiate Drug Prices (The Hill's CongressBlog) The government successfully negotiating drug prices is about as probable as a Florida Gator fan wearing an Ohio State jersey to tonight’s championship football game. If naysayers of the current market-based system for drug pricing say it isn’t working, they should look at the numbers. The cost of Medicare's new prescription drug benefit has come down about 10 percent in the last six months. Most importantly, seniors on Medicare’s prescription program are allowed to receive any medication their doctor prescribes to them, and they receive them at a lower cost. All of this would change if the government starts negotiating drug prices as the Democrats are proposing. And why is that? First, negotiating and changing the market-based system would also slow the research and development of new medications. Drug companies pour millions of dollars into research for the next breakthrough drug that could target cancer cells, reduce hypertension, fight cardiac disease, etc. Permitting government price setting for drugs marketed to the over 40 million Americans covered by Medicare would destroy innovation in this country. Instead of stifling drug innovation as federal price controls would, the current system that allows the market to hold down cost to the beneficiary while returning value for innovation is a preferable approach. Secondly, the Democratic approach would affect where a senior gets their medications. The local pharmacy where seniors have gone for years to pick up their medications and talk directly with a pharmacist could be severely curtailed in favor of mail-order delivery. The federal government will attempt to squeeze every dime it can out of pharmacies as well, not really understanding how pharmacies operate in the private sector. Medicaid, at least on a state-by-state basis, directly negotiates with drug manufacturers and sets limits for pharmacy reimbursement. I constantly hear from independent and community pharmacists that say this is killing their businesses and hurting their customers. Allowing Medicare to do this will probably be the last nail in their coffins. Seniors want dependability, familiarity and personal attention to their health care needs. With local pharmacists they receive this kind of care. With new government negotiations, we will see a push for impersonal, automated systems. The government should stay out of your grandmother’s medicine cabinet.
01.07.2007	"History is often a part of everyday life in Washington, DC, but as we begin this beautiful Thursday morning, I look forward to taking the oath of office for the third time as the U.S. Representative of the 26th Congressional District of Texas. "Today we begin the 110th Congress. I look forward to reintroducing positive, sensible legislation that will benefit Americans. We are a diverse nation with many blessings, but we are not without need for improvement. I hope that as the 110th Congress commences, the House of Representatives works diligently to move legislation that is meaningful and of sound economic principles."
12.13.2006	On Tuesday, December 12, 2006, U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX 26) was honored at a luncheon hosted by the Children's Medical Center of Dallas at their Annual Recognition for Lawmakers. Children's Legislative Initiatives Nurturing Children (LINC) identifies and recognizes North Texas officeholders who provide leadership on issues that impact children. This event is a Joint Board Meeting held once a year. Past recipients of this award have been U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, U.S. Representatives Ralph Hall, Eddie Bernice Johnson, and Texas Senator Jane Nelson. The following is a copy of Congressman Burgess thank you remarks from the luncheon: “Thank you for this great honor. You know, the Children's Medical Center of Dallas has always been near and dear to my heart. Even though you are not located in my Congressional District, your excellent, and might I add, well-deserved reputation brings honor to all North Texans and admiration from across the globe. “As a physician, I am all the more mindful of the talent and responsibility that often befalls Children’s Medical Center. At a science hearing in December of 2003, I remember heralding the news of how Children’s Medical Center of Dallas was the perfect example of where the intersection of mechanical engineering, bioengineering, pharmacology, medicine and surgery quietly and completely joined together to give two young children a chance at a much brighter future. Of course, I am referring to Ahmed and Mohamed Ibrahim the two formerly conjoined twins that underwent a remarkable separation procedure. Without you, that miracle would not have been possible. “Your work is remarkable. From the doctors, the nurses, the technicians, to theoretical and practical professionals who developed the specialized operating room table, you all represent the best of medicine. Your work, quite simply, makes me proud and makes my job easier. “In October of this year, President Bush signed into law H.R. 5574, the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education Reauthorization Act. The legislation continues a vital children’s health program that ensures the training of pediatricians and pediatric subspecialists in the nation’s children’s teaching hospitals and authorizes $330 million through 2011 for this important program. “I sit on the Energy and Commerce Committee where the bill originated under our Health Subcommittee Chairman Nathan Deal. I can confidently say it was one of the easiest votes I have ever cast. There are few other entities so deserving. “You make sure the “Apples of Our Eyes” are given the best care possible. With grace and dignity you help the smallest and purest of us all. So to receive this honor today means a great deal to me as a Member of Congress, as a physician, but most importantly, as a father. Thank you.”
12.12.2006	I was deeply concerned about the House Ethics Committee report recently released concerning former Rep. Mark Foley. After repeated attempts, by several individuals to report his activities, the valid concerns about Rep. Foley’s contact with House Pages were never adequately investigated. Although the report details the “finger pointing” exercise by current Members, officers and staff of the House, it falls short of truly holding someone directly accountable for a Member when they cross the line. In short, the oversight of the House Page program is deeply flawed. If the program is to continue in the future, fundamental changes in the day-to-day operations of the program must be made. Newly elected House Leadership has promised to address this issue legislatively in the upcoming 110th Congress, and I anxiously look forward to their recommendations to restore the integrity and safety of this historic program.
12.11.2006	In the early morning hours of Saturday, December 9th, Representative Michael Burgess (R-TX 26) voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 6111, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, at the busy end of the 109th Congress. As part of the usual last minute flurry of activity before Congress adjourned for the year, the U.S. House and Senate passed the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 (H.R. 6111). Approved in the House by a bipartisan vote of 367 – 45, H.R. 6111 accomplished three major goals: Extensions of critical tax relief for working families and small businesses, Reforms and improvements to our health care system, and Provisions encouraging new energy exploration. Tax Deductions H.R. 6111 extends tax deductions for up to $4,000 in higher education expenses and deductions for up to $250 in teachers' out-of-pocket classroom expenses. It extends state and local sales tax deductions and includes important tax credits for small businesses seeking to employ welfare recipients. It also includes critical tax relief for research and development. Health Care H.R. 6111 expands and improves upon Health Savings Accounts, a critical tool that is revolutionizing the way Americans pay for health care. HSAs are tax-free which makes contributions to them tax-deductible, interest earned within each account is tax-free, and withdrawals are not taxed if they are used to pay for qualified medical expenses. HSAs can be used for medical expenses not covered by your insurance policy, including: insurance premiums, prescription drug costs, long-term care insurance, Medicare expenses, and even dental and orthodontic care. H.R. 6111 increases contribution limits and allows for roll-overs from IRAs into HSAs. Gas Prices H.R. 6111 encourages American companies to develop oil and gas from deep ocean reserves off the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). This is another good step in the effort to lower energy costs and reduce America's dependence on foreign oil. The OCS defined area (set aside in H.R. 6111) contains 1.26 billion barrels of oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. The natural gas supply alone would be enough to heat and cool nearly 6 million homes for 15 years. This overarching bill keeps taxes down, improves access and the affordability of health care coverage and places America firmly on the road toward energy independence.
12.07.2006	Representative Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) was a cosponsor of H.R. 5136, National Integrated Drought Information System Act of 2006 (NIDIS). This bill was introduced by fellow North Texan Representative Ralph Hall on April 6, 2006. H.R. 5136 passed the House of Representatives on September 26, 2006 and passed the Senate yesterday, on December 6, 2006. It now goes to President Bush’s desk for his signature. Every year droughts cause between $6 and $8 billion in estimated losses to the national economy. According to several Texas economists, losses in the early 2006 droughts cost an estimated $1.5 billion in Texas alone. At that time, Governor Rick Perry declared drought disasters in 254 counties. “In early 2006, Texas suffered the worst season of drought since the massive droughts of the 1950s – almost since the dust bowl,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “During this crisis, it became apparent that dealing with drought situations as an emergency, reactionary response was inefficient. The NIDIS will change how we operate for the better.” The NIDIS bill establishes a national integrated drought information system and designates the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) as the lead agency. NOAA would be responsible for creating a drought early warning system and improved communication efforts with the public. This will be a comprehensive system helping national, state and local entities better predict, monitor and mitigate the problem. NIDIS is part of the President's budget, and this bill formally authorizes the program. The legislation is supported by the Texas Farm Bureau and the Western Governor's Association.
12.07.2006	“Although I’m glad an agreement was successfully reached between the House and Senate on a physician fix and Medicare relief package, I am still disappointed that we have asked doctors, yet again, to wait for an actual long-term solution to their reimbursement problem. “A provision allowing doctors who report quality measures, under an expanded Physician Voluntary Reporting Program, are eligible to receive a 1.5 percent bonus payment beginning in July, is not in the best interest of Medicare patients who are concerned about losing their doctor they have seen for decades. After having physicians waiting for years, I think it is wrong to ask them to wait an additional eight months for any relief. No “negative update” is not the same as a positive update. “On the plus side, this agreement does not dig the hole any deeper when it comes to paying for a solution. In years past, by constantly providing a negative update, the problem of financing a permanent solution for a physician fix grew. For the time being, we have stopped the hemorrhaging, but doctors, and their Medicare patients, are not out of harms way just yet. “For the past year I have worked to bring some stability to this system and in fact introduced H.R. 5866 this summer to do just that. I will continue to dedicate myself to the task of finally implementing lasting Medicare reform to ensure adequate physician participation and beneficiary access well into the future when the 110th Congress convenes in January.”
12.06.2006	“Our presence in Iraq is a critical component of the War on Terror. Today’s recommendations by the Iraq Study Group are aimed at returning the United States to its place as the watchdog of democracy and freedom for people all over the world. “The most critical component of the recommendations focuses on the need for the Iraq government to step-up its responsibility of serving, protecting and providing for their countrymen. I could not agree more with this point; it is not an open ended commitment. “We continue to train and encourage the Iraq Security Forces so that they will sooner, rather than later, be able to take the reigns of control completely. This is a recognized goal, and we are taking the actions to make it a reality. As soon as we can confidently depart Iraq, knowing it can defend itself, we will. “However, we must remember this is not simply a matter of Iraq taking care of itself. It remains an important player in Middle East politics. A tentative balance of power in the Middle East continues, but should it falter, there would be a consider threat to the peace of the entire region which will inevitably spread across the globe. The negative ramifications of this failure could be felt for generations to come. “It should come as no surprise that a powerful and vindictive Iran is waiting in the wings. As Iran gains nuclear power, its prominence and sway over the region will present an unprecedented threat to peace everywhere. Iraq must stand as the beacon of democracy and be able to balance the power of her surrounding neighbors who are openly hostile to any form of freedom. “I plan to return to Iraq soon and review the progress of the Iraq Security Forces. They are being trained by the best in the world - our United States Armed Forces. I know that our soldiers have done all we have asked of them. “But I also go to Iraq to meet face-to-face with new leaders I the Iraq government so I can share my political and governing experience in a complex and partisan government. “I hope that all Members of Congress, in both Houses and on both sides of the aisle, will remember our overarching goal – to defend our homeland and to seek freedom for all. I will carefully and diligently review and support the best of the recommendations.”
11.30.2006	From news reports today we learned that the Iraq Study Group may issue the recommendation to the President to begin a phased withdrawal of U.S. combat brigades in Iraq beginning next year. This is the worst kind of recommendation that attempts to bargain away success in Iraq. We must have the political resolve to finish the job in Iraq, and I am afraid that this signals a beginning of the end of resolve of the political elite here in Washington, D.C. This is a political recommendation and not a formulation for success in Iraq.
11.30.2006	During the first fridge cold snap of this year, Congressman Michael Burgess participated in Liberty Christian’s Public Symposium on "Cyber Safety for Kids" for Parents. The public event featured local and federal leaders in the fight against online predators. Over the past year, Congressman Burgess has participated in the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s 13 hearings devoted to the topic of cyber safety for children. Through the Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee, Rep. Burgess had the chance to consult with experts in this field and analyzed thousands of pages to bring forth the tightest and strongest legislation possible to combat this issue from a federal level. “I could have gone my entire life without learning about the dangerous and twisted world of pedophilia; however, over the past few months this Committee has taken up this issue for the sole purpose of trying to protect our children from sexual exploitation over the Internet,” said Congressman Burgess. Speakers included Leslie Willingham, “Prevention Program, How to Make Your Child Predator Safe”; Jim Willingham, “Dangers of Social Network”; Dan Leal, Children's Advocacy Center for Denton County; and Congressman Burgess who discussed the federal legislation surrounding online predators.
11.28.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26), in conjunction with the Texas Department of Transportation, hosted the 4th Annual 26th Congressional District Transportation Summit. The event highlighted local, state and federal transportation experts and was devoted to discussing and improving transportation throughout North Texas and was hosted at the Texas Motor Speedway. “As we all know, our transportation system has a direct and significant impact on the daily lives of all Americans,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “There is no doubt that the United States has benefited greatly from our current network, but we have entered a traffic circle of sorts in deciding how best to advance our system.” The event’s opening remarks were given by Congressman Michael Burgess; Ric Williamson, Chairman of the Texas Transportation Commission; and Bill Thornton, President and CEO, Fort Worth Chamber of Commerce. This year’s summit included presentations from Tarrant, Denton and Cooke county transportation leaders. The panels included highways, transit and new to the summit, aviation issues. The special guest was Joseph Guzzo, Deputy Assistant Secretary, U.S. Department of Transportation. The event, hosted annually, has continues to present creative and innovative solutions to new transportation dilemmas. “The North Texas region provides state and local officials with some of the greatest transportation mobility challenges nationwide, so I consider it the best incubator for new ideas to improve the system,” said Congressman Michael Burgess.
11.17.2006	The newly elected GOP Policy Committee Chairman Thaddeus McCotter (MI-11) has indicated he intends to restructure the committee and name Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) as Vice Chairman. Of Representative Burgess, McCotter said, “Mike’s intelligence and integrity command the respect of our entire Republican Conference. Like his Texas constituents, we are all fortunate to have his talents working on behalf of our nation.” As Chairman of the GOP Policy Committee, Representative McCotter serves as the fourth position in the Republican Leadership. “After four years on the Policy Committee, I am honored to be selected for such a lofty position,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “I consider it a position of great responsibility and truly an opportunity for designing sensible legislation.” The Policy Committee serves as a formal council to meet regularly to facilitate the formulation and carrying out of national policy, and to improve relationships between the executive and legislative branches of the government. In addition, the Policy Committee is an important means for every member of the Conference to develop sound legislative ideas into sound bills. The Policy Committee offers a unique opportunity for participation by members whose legislative ideas do not in every case coincide with their committee assignments, as well as an especially useful mechanism for addressing important issues that cut across committee jurisdictions.
11.16.2006	“Even though the election results changed much of the political landscape in Washington D.C., it did not change the fact that doctors and patients in Medicare face serious cuts next year and for nine years straight starting January 2007 if Congress does not act to stop them. “There is almost unanimous agreement that the current physician payment methodology is fundamentally unsound. The system underpays doctors to the point of putting them out of business and thus puts Medicare beneficiaries at risk of losing their doctor. “In light of this healthcare crisis, I am continuing my efforts to block physician payment cuts through these last weeks of the 109th Congress. At this point, should action be taken, I think it will most likely come in the form of a simple payment freeze. However, I firmly believe that we must correct the flawed methodology that creates this scenario, and therefore, I will be reintroducing my physician payment reform bill, H.R. 5866, in the 110th Congress. “The bill seeks to ensure that physicians receive fair payment for services they provide. It does so by repealing the Sustainable Growth Rate (an arbitrary Medicare spending target) and instituting a single conversion factor: the Medicare Economic Index minus 1 percent. This creates a more market based approach to physician payment by placing more value on actual cost inputs and not an arbitrary volume of services target each year.”
11.13.2006	“This morning, distinguished guests and citizens gathered along the National Mall for the ceremonial groundbreaking of the Washington, D.C. Martin Luther King, Jr. National Memorial. As our nation proudly recognizes the life and legacy of Dr. King with this Memorial, we are ensuring that his contributions will be honored and remembered for present and future generations. “The Memorial will soon be built along the Tidal Basin of our nation’s most prestigious stretch of monuments. It will be situated between the Jefferson and Lincoln Memorial, where Dr. King famously gave his inspirational “I Have A Dream” speech. The four-acre location will feature stately trees, beautifully carved stone, and elements of water to incorporate the themes of justice, democracy, and hope which Dr. King so deeply stood for. His faith in the democracy of our nation will be paid tribute by inscribing his words of justice and freedom on prominently display around the memorial. “At the ceremony, President George W. Bush and former President Bill Clinton gave remarks on Dr. King’s legacy to our nation. In addition, Oprah Winfrey and Maya Angelou joined Dr. King’s children in commemorating the groundbreaking of this monument. “As a great American leader of the 20th Century, Martin Luther King, Jr. committed himself to the advancement of civil rights and harmony within our nation. Dr. King’s courage to initiate peaceful change and leadership in the face of adversity has ensured freedom and opportunity for all citizens of our nation. “Through his inspirational speeches and peaceful demonstrations, Martin Luther King, Jr. envisioned a world of equality. His hope for the American people has called our nation to service. We must never become complacent in our dreams for this country, and we must continue to fight for our founding freedoms. “The words, ideas, and actions of Dr. King are noble standards in which America remains committed to aspiring to. As Dr. King once said, “The time is always right to do what is right.” His life serves as a role model for all citizens, especially those willing to stand up and make changes for community and nation. “Although his life tragically ended too soon, Martin Luther King, Jr.’s contribution to our nation will never be forgotten. This memorial will aptly remind all who visit that Dr. King’s unwavering ethics, faith in human life, and conviction of equality and justice remain a part of the American character forever.”
10.26.2006	The following statement is in response to an Associated Press article “New Details Emerge in Los Alamos Case” published on Wednesday, October 25, 2006 concerning an alleged data leak at the New Mexico laboratory. This statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26): “I am deeply disturbed by the report by the Los Alamos Police Department that they discovered sensitive and classified information at the home of a suspected drug dealer. This latest revelation builds upon concerns that I and my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee's Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee that some of our nuclear secrets are not as safe as they should be. In a time when the most dangerous regimes on the planet are seeking their own nuclear weapons, it is critical that the security of such classified information does not fall into the wrong hands. As a member of the Oversight Subcommittee, I will ask that this matter be fully investigated and appropriate actions taken to ensure that this does not happen again.” Article: http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2006/10/24/national/main2122004.shtml
10.16.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess’ bill to award Byron Nelson the Congressional Gold Medal was signed into law by President George W. Bush. The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Burgess: “This day is truly all about Byron Nelson. When this process began, I told Byron that he deserved this high distinction for all he had done, and he so graciously denied accolades. “Byron faith in God and strong character made him a beacon of hope to all who were lucky enough to know him. He was generous, gentlemanly and sincere in all areas of his life. While many may remember him as a legendary golfer, most remember him as a philanthropic leader. “Today, I am very proud that the American people, and indeed our President, have honored Byron Nelson and will award him the Congressman Gold Medal sometime next spring.”
10.10.2006	The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess concerning North Korea’s test of a nuclear weapon: “We must institute real and substantial sanctions against North Korea specifically aimed at their military capability. Because of the already dire humanitarian situation in that country, this aid should continue but only under the auspices of a third-party country to ensure that the aid actually goes to the deprived people of North Korea and not to the government. “It is my hope, and I have discussed this idea with House Leadership, that the congressional committees of jurisdiction should host hearings on North Korea’s nuclear movements. They should prepare legislation that makes agreements with the neighbor nations such that any act of aggression upon them would be seen as an act of aggression upon United States itself. Any aggression will be met with the necessary force. “We must further state the clear intention of the United States is to stop the nuclear escalation in North Korea. We cannot afford the potential diversion of nuclear material to other rogue nations, nor do we want to see an escalation of an arms race locally in the region.”
10.03.2006	“Because of the policies of our President and the legislation passed by this Congress, the United States’ economy is thriving. At the close of trading today, the Dow set a record high of 11,758.95 which supersedes the January 14, 2000 record of 11,750.28. “The resilience of the American economy is truly remarkable. I recall that when I was sworn in as a U.S. Representative, on January 3, 2003, the Dow closed at roughly 8,500. “Considering all the things that have been thrown at our economy, including a terrorist attack, war, and corporate scandals, our economy has persevered and is in fact stronger than ever. Investors are buoyed by this announcement, and the American people should be brimming with confidence and optimism about their financial futures in such an economy.”
10.02.2006	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) announced today members of his 2006 Service Academy Advisory Board. The thirteen-member board will meet in November to advise him upon the selection of qualified service academy candidates. The board’s purpose is to comprehensively screen and interview high school and college applicants wishing to receive a congressional nomination; the board then makes recommendations to Congressman Burgess for final review and nominations are sent to the individual service academies (U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY.) “One of the privileges I have serving in the U.S. House of Representatives is the opportunity to nominate outstanding young people from the 26th District to our nation’s service academies,” Congressman Michael C. Burgess said. “We have an excellent group of former military, education and civic leaders serving on the Advisory Board. In this tumultuous time in our nation’s history, many young people in our area have expressed their interest in serving their country by attending one of our nation’s service academies. After a rigorous selection process, I look forward to receiving the recommendations of this outstanding board.” Retired Air Force Lt. General Charles R. Hamm serves as Chairman of the Board. Congressman Burgess noted, “General Hamm’s highly regarded service as the former Superintendent of the U.S. Air Force Academy enables him to capably lead the Board.” “I know how serious Congressman Burgess takes his responsibility to nominate highly qualified young people to the academies, and I look forward to serving with this distinguished board to recommend the right people to him for consideration,” said General Hamm. The members of the 26th Congressional District Service Academy Advisory Board are as follows: Chairman Lt. General Charles R. Hamm, U.S. Air Force (Ret.) of Argyle – Aviation Consultant Former Superintendent - U.S. Air Force Academy; 35 years service in USAF Air Command and Staff College, 1969; National War College, 1972 M.S., Auburn University, 1969; B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1956 Army Mr. Gene Collett of Flower Mound – Vice President & Director of Compliance, CitiFinancial Auto Former Academy Board Member, U.S. Cong. Eric Cantor (VA-7) Captain, U.S. Army, Parachutist and Pilot MBA, University of Texas, Austin, 1989 B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1982 Mr. Thomas Russell of Flower Mound – Aerospace Consultant Captain, U.S. Army Infantry Officer, Airborne Ranger B.S., U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, 1963 Navy/Marine Corps Mr. J. Mark Lambright of Flower Mound - CEO, HealthPoints, Inc. MBA, The Wharton School, University of PA, 1983 B.S., U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD, 1975 Mr. Jerry Bryan McKinney, Jr. of Flower Mound – Administrative Officer, Transportation Security Administration, DFW Airport Academy Board Member, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn & U.S. Sen. Phil Gramm Infantry Captain, U.S. Marine Corps B.S., U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD, 1977 Air Force Mr. Matt Byrd of Keller – Vice President, Hillwood Properties Lt. Col., U.S. Air Force Reserve Instructor Pilot Former Chief of Force Requirements, NATO Graduate, Air Command and Staff College; Armed Forces Staff College M.S., Troy State University, Troy, AL, 1996 B.S., U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO, 1985 Mr. Brad Jones of Copper Canyon – Pilot, Delta Airlines Former Mayor - Highland Village Captain, U.S. Air Force Pilot M.S., Troy State University, 1989 B.S., U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO, 1979 Merchant Marine Mr. Steven Hill of Copper Canyon – National Principal-In-Charge, KPMG Advisory Services Mayor Pro Tem - Town of Copper Canyon U.S. Naval Reserve Officer B.S., U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY, 1986 Community Mrs. Elaine Emery of Lewisville - Small Business Owner/Community Volunteer Medical Center of Lewisville Board of Trustees; Denton Co. Health Advisory Board; Childrens Advocacy Center of Denton Co. Board of Directors B.S., University of Oklahoma, 1968 Mr. Earl L. Russell, III of Gainesville – Broker, Edward D. Jones & Co. North Texas Medical Center Trustee; City of Gainesville Municipal Advisory Board Major, U.S. Army Reserve, (Ret.) Graduate, Army Command and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, KS B.A., Kansas State University, 1966 Education Dr. Peter Lane of Denton - Visiting Lecturer in History, UNT Former Academy Board Member, U.S. Cong. Dick Armey Col., U.S. Air Force, (Ret.) B.S., U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Spring, CO, 1961 M.A., 1969 & Ph.D., 1972, University of Washington-Seattle Dr. Lee Ann Nutt of Denton – Provost, North Central Texas College, Corinth Campus Denton Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors; Presbyterian Hospital Women's Advisory Board; North Central Texas Workforce Development Board Ed.D., 1996 & M.Ed., 1992, Texas Tech University B.B.A., Texas Tech University, 1989 Dr. Ernest L. Thomas of Fort Worth – President, Tarrant County College, South Campus Fort Worth Chamber of Commerce - Stay-In-School Initiative Co-chair Fort Worth Metropolitan Black Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors Ph.D., University of Texas, Austin, 1996 M.A., University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, 1976 B.A., Washington State University, Pullman, WA, 1971
10.02.2006	The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) concerning former Representative Mark Foley: “This weekend we saw the worst manifestation of the shadowy world of a child predator visited on the most vulnerable members of the Capitol Hill family. Mark Foley’s abrupt departure in no way atones for the damage done to the Capitol Pages and their families. “Obligations to the institution have been breeched. Like others, I wish this cancer had seen an early excision. The investigation, now in progress, should be open and transparent. Every Member of this house expects accountability. Both the internal and external investigations will resolve the legal aspect of this situation but neither can replace the childhood of the victims or the dignity of Mr. Foley.”
09.29.2006	Is anybody else out there tired of talking about this? Over the next nine years, doctors participating in Medicare will face payment cuts of approximately five percent per year. Everyone on the Hill has heard this message again and again – both in the past few weeks and in previous years. It keeps coming up, we keep putting a band-aid on it, and somehow we’re always surprised that it comes back to haunt us. I would like to actually fix this. Call it the physician in me, but I want it to heal and go away. And the problem itself is pretty simple; we can do this. Right now the Medicare physician payment system pays doctors less when they overspend their SGR limit. It’s punitive. And when doctors get paid less per patient, they first increase the number of patients they see to try and make ends meet – quality suffers – and eventually they leave the system. We aren’t talking about fat cats here, we’re talking about working men and women who come out of school with a load of debt and a genuine desire to help people. Doctors don’t want to refuse patients, but simple economics is forcing them to do that, despite what the AARP may believe. They will keep the patients they have now if they can, out of responsibility and friendship, and they will stop accepting new ones. It is already happening. H.R. 5866, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform and Quality Improvement Act of 2006, is my proposed solution. It repeals the SGR and replaces it with MEI minus 1% in order to create a more market-based approach to physician payment, and place more value on actual cost inputs and not an arbitrary volume-of-services target each year. The bill also establishes a voluntary quality reporting system, which involves the QIOs, but is based on measures developed by physicians within their respective specialty groups. There are multiple reasons for this. First, the SGR is what keeps digging this hole for us. As medical services are more and more utilized, physicians outgrow their SGR imposed limit, and the payment cuts get bigger. It doesn’t make any sense. So let’s get rid of it. I suggest MEI minus 1%, as I said, to create a more market-based approach. I think physicians should be paid what the market says their services are worth. However, I am well aware that Medicare is an enormous government program and cost is important. CBO has reported that a full inflation update to physician payment would cost more than $200 billion over 10 years. Hence, the minus 1% is an attempt to control spending. Along those lines, I am also actively seeking offsets to pay for these changes. Redirecting the stabilization fund from the Medicare Modernization Act would provide part of the funding. Eliminating double payment from Medicare for indirect costs of medical education is another source. As incentive to report performance measures, participating physicians will be permitted to balance bill certain high income Medicare beneficiaries. Medicare is already planning implementation of means testing – so prices will be changing, regardless. My bill not only encourages physicians to self-evaluate and improve their services, it gives patients the financial leverage of comparison shopping for medical care. If they want to pay more for quality, who are we to stop them? We’re Americans here; bring on the free-market competition for low prices and stop rationing services. Finally, one of the key components of my bill is that it calls for the ongoing examination of Medicare funding. Right now, each part of Medicare is an independent financial institution, but they provide related services. To optimize our spending, we need to know how cross-subsidization could occur between Part A, B, & D related services of Medicare without decreasing access to care. We need to know whether or not spending in outpatient services and prevention results in savings in hospitalizations, because that spending would be both necessary and worthwhile.
09.29.2006	The following statement may be attributed to U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) concerning the passage of the local compromise concerning the Wright Amendment. The House and Senate have now approved the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006: “With the passage of the Wright Amendment Reform Act by a vote of 386-22, tonight we put to rest decades of controversy. As a representative of D/FW International Airport, I have always felt strongly in protecting the economic engine of North Texas. To this day, I still believe in the integrity of the original Wright Amendment; however, I am pleased that the local entities’ constructed a compromise that met the needs and wishes of all parties. It was long in coming, but thorough in its mission. Not only will the airports and airlines benefit from the compromise but also the tens of thousands of employees and residents of North Texas. “I commend all the parties associated with this historic compromise. At the urging of Congress, Mayor Moncrief of Fort Worth and Mayor Miller of Dallas spent endless hours working on the best deal possible for the region. Together with DFW International Airport, American Airlines, and Southwest Airlines, they brought to Congress an agreement that will protect and benefit my constituents and allow for better service at Love Field. I sincerely thank the Mayors for their commitment and dedication to this delicate and complicated task. “Also, the North Texas Delegation has worked endlessly on this matter, and the passage of this legislation today is a testament to the determination and dedication of my colleagues. We have all had to make concessions, but at the end of the day, the enactment of this legislation is crucial for the 26th District of Texas. “This has always been a local problem, and a local problem deserves a local solution. Mayor Moncrief and Mayor Miller provided a solution that Congress has now been passed into law. The bipartisan Texas Delegation stood together as one and delivered an overwhelmingly historic vote for the people of North Texas.”
09.28.2006	The House GOP Policy Committee held a briefing today with Secretary of State Dr. Condoleezza Rice. She addressed the audience of representatives and then fielded questions.Congressman Michael Burgess discussed the need for better government and cultural expertise exchanges with our international partners and those countries where we are looking to improve the United State's image. The discussion included briefings on Darfur, Sudan, Iraq, Iran, Venezuela and the United Nations.
09.28.2006	Opening Statement of Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Hearing on Medicare Physician Payment September 27, 2006 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank you for holding this hearing and for your personal interest and involvement in trying to resolve this issue. It is appreciated. I sincerely hope that this hearing today will convey the message to the physician community who have been visiting us here on the Hill in these past few weeks that we are listening, understand the magnitude of scheduled Medicare cuts, and are working to develop a sustainable solution. With a 5.1 percent cut in Part B rates scheduled to take effect January 1, 2007, access to care will become an issue – it is already an issue. It is simple economics that physicians, as small business owners, cannot consistently spend more on care than they earn. Over a span of 9 years, physicians face annual cuts averaging 5 percent. I think it is foolhardy to think that any rational businessperson, having the fore-knowledge that in a decade they will make roughly half of what they make today, would remain in that business for very long. My colleague, Charlie Norwood, and I introduced H.R. 5866, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform and Quality Improvement Act of 2006. H.R. 5866 represents an attempt to provide long-term reform and takes a turn toward a more stable and rational way to pay physicians who participate in Medicare. I am also pleased that Chairman shares the goal, and has developed a discussion draft that provides a stabilization period for Medicare physician payment. Chairman Barton, thank you for working with me as you have developed this draft and I look forward to working with you through October and November to make this proposal a reality. I would like to extend a special welcome to Dr. Sallie Cook today for her invaluable help in this process. Dr. Cook is a pathologist, specializing in blood-banking, and serves as both the President of the American Health Quality Association and the Chief Medical Officer of the Virginia Health Quality Center. She and her staff have been invaluable as I have worked to develop language that would improve QIO function and accountability. I think the QIOs represent a vital component to the reforms we will discuss here today. I would like to thank all our panelists for taking the time to be here. The problems facing health care today of truly require a united front from the medical community, and we welcome your input.From the Office of Energy and Commerce Chairman Joe Barton: Good afternoon. I want to thank Chairman Deal for holding this hearing, and for his great work as a subcommittee chairman this Congress. I would like to welcome all of our witnesses here today. I look forward to hearing your ideas for legislation that will avert the Medicare physician payment cut for next year and beyond. In July, this subcommittee held a series of hearings to examine more closely how we currently pay physicians, what we need to think about when we talk about how to pay physicians tomorrow, and how we protect the taxpayer dollar from falling prey to the use of unnecessary services. We heard about rapid growth in physician spending for imaging services and the concerns of many regarding Medicare’s payment for those services. We heard about the flaws in the current physician payment system that may contribute to overuse of physician services. We heard about the promise of a system that more fairly pays physicians for the services they provide – those that reflect the best quality and efficient care that a physician can provide for any particular patient. I said it before publicly and I’ll say it again at this hearing, the current payment system must be broken if we have to keep coming back each and every year to override cuts. Every year we provide some form of payment relief, although arguably we are still not actually paying you for the true cost of your services. Each and every year we are pressured to spend billions, repeat, billions, of taxpayers dollars to do something, and each year it costs even more to do just the minimum. And for what? Even if we continue with this Band-Aid strategy for treating the physician-payment complaint, the disease will never be cured. We’ll be back here next year, and then the next year, peeling off the old Band-Aids and putting on new ones. This is simply not responsible behavior, it is not rational behavior and it is just not sustainable. It’s time for real reform, real change. I want to thank the panelists for coming here today to discuss how we can roll up our sleeves in the next few weeks and come together to provide a multi-year payment stabilization with some bonus for those that work with us to contain growth in spending and advance quality and efficient health care. I’d like to work with you to build a better payment system, one that provides the right incentives for care instead of the wrong ones, and one that recognizes that there are savings accrued when chronic care is management effectively. Let me reiterate – I am prepared to repeal the SGR. I don’t have the system planned. I have a concept, and I am willing to work with the groups present. I want to assure everyone in this room that I am one hundred percent committed to enacting legislation this year to avoid the impending physician cuts, scheduled to go into place in January. We need to start from scratch, creating a multi-year approach, that includes incentives for quality care while holding doctors harmless. Thanks again to Chairman Deal for calling this hearing, and to all the witnesses for coming today. I look forward to their testimony. I also look forward to working with them and my colleagues to find a viable, long-term solution to the Medicare physician payment system.
09.28.2006	Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced House Resolution 402 directing Congress to observe September as Infant Mortality Awareness Month. Today, the House of Representatives passed this resolution. “Infant mortality rates are appalling,” said Rep. Michael Burgess. “As we have seen in various news reports, Tarrant County, back in my North Texas district, has a higher infant mortality rate than the national average. This is unacceptable in today’s high standard of health care.” Infant mortality is still a significant cause of death in the United States. In 2002, the infant morality rate in the United States reached 7 deaths per 1000 live births, the first increase since 1958, ranking the United States 28th among industrialized nations in the rate of infant mortality. Among minorities, the problem is especially devastating--the mortality rate for African American women is more than double that of Caucasian women. “With passage of this legislation, and other important measures like the reauthorization of Community Health Centers, I hope we can stop this devastating trend,” said Rep. Michael Burgess. The goals of Infant Mortality Awareness Month are to increase national awareness of infant mortality and contributing factors, and to urge community leaders to assist in efforts to meet the objective of reducing the rate of infant mortality in this country by 2010. Congressman Burgess has been working actively for several years to tackle this issue both from local and national levels. He has worked to get funding in the Labor-Health and Human Services annual Appropriations bill that would give support to local entities whose mission is to curb infant mortality. A perfect example of this mission in practice is occurring in Fort Worth today through the Fort Worth Infant Mortality Task Force. "So goes the health of the mother; so goes the health of the family; so goes the health of our country,” said Jerry Roberson, President, Infant Mortality Task Force. “Congressman Michael Burgess is of extreme importance to the issue of infant mortality. He is not only a physician, but a policy maker. More importantly, he is a policy maker who understands the depths of infant mortality.” The Fort Worth Infant Mortality Task Force is an evidence-driven initiative focused on saving the lives of our communities most vulnerable. It is dedicated to access and coordination of services, research and oversight and health and intervention. “As an obstetrician, I understand how important pre-natal health is to the well-being of babies,” said Rep. Michael Burgess. “I hope that this resolution helps increase awareness on the national level and encourage communities to do a better job in protecting the health and well-being of their mothers and babies.”
09.28.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD Hewlett-Packard Pretexting Scandal September 28, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for your leadership in investigating this important issue. Today’s hearing is additional evidence of the deceptive practice of pretexting. I am confident that our committee will continue to work diligently to protect the American public and their private records. Pretexting is the impersonation and deception of others in order to gain access to other’s personal information. We learn from an early age that lying is wrong, so I do not understand how an intelligent Chairwoman and her Board did not know these deceptive actions were wrong. Even if you somehow believed that what you were doing wasn’t completely illegal, reasonable minds would still view these actions as completely out of bounds. Ms. Dunn, quite frankly, what were you thinking? The past two years, your company even won awards from TRUSTe as “The Most Trusted Company for Privacy Award” which was supposed to celebrate your respect for people’s privacy. Your business model depends on the public’s trust. How could you betray the public in this manner? While HP’s headlines have brought the issue of pretexting into the public’s eye, this Committee has been working on this matter for some time. In fact, this past spring the Energy and Commerce Committee marked up comprehensive legislation that addresses this serious issue. H.R. 4943, “The Prevention of Fraudulent Access to Phone Records Act” will make pretexting for telephone records illegal and will strengthen security measures taken by telecommunications carriers to protect such records. If anything good can come from the questionable actions of HP, perhaps it will be a call to action to pass this important legislation. Our market and economy depends on sound business actions by board of directors. Over the past few years, the public has been concerned about issues such outsourcing and ethical business practices. This has caused Congress to enact additional regulatory laws to legislate corporate behavior, such as Sarbanes Oxley. The market has recovered in part due to these Congressional actions. For me, the HP scandal has hit close to home. In my home state of Texas, HP employees roughly 10,000 people. In my district, there are almost 200 of my constituent employed by your company. The employees of HP are hard workers, and they deserve to be able to trust their own Board of Directors. It is my hope that today’s hearing will not only bring to light what the board did in regard to pretexting, but also shed some light on what they are now doing to ensure that they can regain the trust of the American public. Again, Mr. Chairman, I think you for bringing this deplorable pretexting example before Congress and for giving HP the chance to explain their actions to the American public. I yield back the remainder of my time. Video News from the Hearing: CNBC: “FastNews” Video Clip http://video.msn.com/v/us/v.htm?g=a1d5caa5-f725-498d-b767-00deee46d9fc&f=rssmoney&fg=rss&f=15/64rssmoney CNBC: “On the Money” Video Clip http://video.msn.com/v/us/v.htm?g=5222e032-c045-4ffc-8a08-fea927b5b772&f=rssmoney&fg=rss&f=15/64rssmoney
09.27.2006	Last night, Congressman Michael Burgess secured $4 million for Advanced Research and Technology Initiative (ARTI) at the University of North Texas in Denton. The funding comes from the final conference report for fiscal year 2007 Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations passed by the U.S. House of Representatives and to be passed by the U.S. Senate later this week. The University of North Texas’s ARTI, formerly known as the Center for Advanced Research and Technology, is a research facility in microelectronics, optoelectronics, sensors, energy and informatics. The relationship between UNT and DoD is already producing concrete results. For example, ARTI faculty developed advanced, flexible, nanocomposite environmental barrier materials for integration into flexible displays. The staff is also working on a variety of other technologies to enhance the lethality and survivability of the United States’ war fighter. These include autonomous sensor arrays for non line-of-sight targeting in urban environments, large area multi-wavelength flexible emitters for use as phototherapy bandages, non-linear optical materials for infrared imaging and 3D photonic crystals for next generation high energy batteries. “With passage of the conference report, the funding takes us one step closer to finishing the funding needs of ARTI,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “This is a substantial win for North Texas, for Denton and certainly for UNT.” The University’s goal is to provide the capabilities necessary to satisfy the growing technological and engineering needs of the North Texas region and for the talented faculty to advance research on projects of national importance associated with nanotechnology. Nanotechnology is the link to better products from stain-resistant pants and improved optics to creating lighter-weight, but strong security vests for our soldiers. “I want to thank Senator Hutchison for supporting my efforts to secure this new funding for The University of North Texas, said Congressman Michael Burgess. “The advancements from UNT’s ARTI brings technology into our everyday lives and greatly improves the security of our nation.” The funding will allow the partnership between DoD and UNT to complete ARTI infrastructural development and finalize it’s mission of becoming a regional and national defense research and development force. The facilities are multi-user in nature allowing ARTI to form an “umbrella” of capabilities for faculty researchers in order for them to pursue competitive research support in interdisciplinary areas of expertise in areas vital to national security. The ARTI facility serves as a focal point for basic and applied research and is the first high-tech, entrepreneurial research and development park in Denton County, one of the fastest growing communities in the United States. The fiscal year 2007 Department of Defense Appropriations conference report will now go through the Senate for a vote later this week. H.R. 5631, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007, will provide the following: Overall Budgetary Highlights: $447.6 billions Military Personnel - $86.4 billion (becomes a 2.2 percent pay raise for personnel) Operation and Maintenance - $119.8 billion Procurement - $80.9 billion Research, Development, Test and Evaluation - $75.7 billion Emergency Funding for repairs/replacement of Nation Guard equipment - $290 million Emergency Wartime Appropriations and repairs/replacement of equipment - $70 billion
09.27.2006	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE COMMITTEE MARKUP H.R. 5782, The Pipeline Safety Improvement Act Reauthorization September 27, 2006 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we will two bills that are vital for the health and safety of our constituents. The first will reauthorize the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act and the second will reauthorize the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program. I am pleased to see that the Manager's Amendment takes into consideration both the feedback that we received during June's legislative hearing and information that came to light during the Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee's hearing on the BP pipeline incident. The 2002 reauthorization was a success. This bill will build on that success by helping to roll out the 811 Call-Before-You-Dig program and creating a state damage prevention grant program. The Manager's Amendment will also remove the current regulatory exemption for low-stress transmission lines, treating them the same as high-pressure lines currently regulated by PHMSA. But the bill does not go too far and preserves the states' authority to regulate those intrastate gathering lines that fall within their jurisdiction. Second, I want to applaud Ms. Myrick for HR 5472. Her commitment to improve a program that is so important to many women in the country is a true accomplishment. I will take this moment to admonish my friends on the other side of the aisle to turn this issue into a political issue last week when we marked-up the NIH. Ms. Myrick showed true leadership in responding to those partisan tactics and I applaud her for bringing this bill before us today so we can all support the goals of this program and improve women’s health.
09.27.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Sexual Exploitation of Children Over the Internet: Follow Up Issues to the Masha Allen Adoption September 27, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for dedication to this important issue. Like my colleagues, I was shocked and very disturbed by our May 3 hearing which focused on a brave little girl, Masha Allen. Masha’s courage and dignity were so apparent, and was an inspiration for us all. However, what wasn’t apparent was how this little girl could have slipped through the cracks of the safeguards supposedly adhered to during an international adoption. Shouldn’t there have been someone out there that was supposed to look in on this little girl? Shouldn’t there have been someone to make sure that she was safe with this single man who specifically wanted to adopt a five year old girl? Shouldn’t there have been someone who had talked with Mancuso’s biological children to find out if he would be a good father—and thus find out that he had molested his own daughter when she was just a little girl? Shouldn’t there have been someone to check out the home and make sure this little girl had her own bed? The answer to all these questions is, yes, of course, someone should have done this. And, today, we have before us the individuals charged with this responsibility. One of you could have saved this little girl from the life of horror that she endured for so many years. I hope that today’s hearing will provide further answers to what could have been done to save Masha earlier. I know that it is all of our hopes that no other little girls or boys will have to suffer the same way Masha did. Mr. Chairman, thank you again for you dedication and continued leadership in this most serious and troubling of issues.
09.27.2006	On May 10, 2006, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4902, Congressman Michael C. Burgess’ bill to award Byron Nelson the Congressional Gold Medal. Today, the U.S. Senate passed S.2491, Senator John Cornyn of Texas’ version of the bill. Now, the will now be sent to President George W. Bush for his signature for it to become law. The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess on the Senate passage of the bill to award Byron Nelson the Congressional Gold Medal: “First I must say that I am so very thankful that someone like Byron Nelson walked this earth. He was truly the best example of how mankind should strive to be. He lived simply to give to others. His focus was never upon himself, but always upon others. Byron’s servant-heart was extended to all, but especially to those less fortunate. His charitable works knew no limits and his generosity to children brought hope to the lives of thousands. It was with this knowledge of the greatness of Byron Nelson, that I forged ahead to bring him the honor that has come to fruition today, just one day after his passing on to a better place. I will be eternally grateful that I did have the opportunity to speak with Byron just last week. He went to his reward knowing that his country revered and respected him as evidenced by the passing of the bills by both Houses of Congress to award Byron Nelson the Congressional Gold Medal. He may have been known to some as a great athlete, but he was truly known as a great humanitarian. I know that the passage of this bill will solidify Byron’s legacy of generosity. From today forward, I will be honored to know that Byron Nelson will be remembered in history as a Congressional Gold Medal Recipient. I hope he is looking down upon us from heaven this evening and smiling.” About Byron Nelson Byron Nelson's accomplishments as a professional golfer were as impressive as his golf swing. There is a reason why he is the only PGA professional golfer that has a PGA tour named in his honor: the EDS Byron Nelson Championship. Mr. Nelson won 54 career victories, including winning two Masters (1937 and 1942), two PGA Championships (1940 and 1945), and the U.S. Open (1939). He is one of only two golfers to be named "Male Athlete of the Year" twice by the Associated Press, and the World Golf Hall of Fame honored Byron Nelson in 2004 by featuring an exhibit entitled "Byron Nelson: A Champion...A Gentleman." While Mr. Nelson obtained the status as a world class athlete, it was his humanitarian efforts that were truly first class. He was a champion for the underprivileged and had given his time, talents, and funds to make this a better world. Bryon Nelson and the EDS Byron Nelson Championship have raised over $88,000,000 for the Salesmanship Club Youth and Family Centers, a nonprofit agency that provides education and mental health services for more than 2,700 children and their families in the greater Dallas area. Additionally, the Byron and Louise Nelson Golf Endowment Fund had provided over $1.5 million in endowment funds to Abilene Christian University in Abilene, Texas. Another example of his service was his dedication to the Metroport Meals on Wheels which provides daily, home-delivered, hot lunch for the frail, elderly and chronically ill residents. Byron Nelson was an active honorary chairman since 1992. About the Congressional Gold Medal Since the American Revolution, Congress has taken part in a time honored tradition and has commissioned gold medals as the highest expression of national appreciation. Each medal represents and honors distinguished achievements and contributions to our country.
09.26.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Sexual Exploitation of Children Over the Internet: The Face of Child Predator and Other Issues September 26, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for the continuation of this important series of hearings. Mr. Chairman, I could have gone my entire life without learning about the dangerous and twisted world of pedophilia; however, over the past few months this Committee has taken up this issue for the sole purpose of trying to protect our children from sexual exploitation over the Internet. Today, we turn our attention to learning more about the face of the child predator. I am confident that the things we learn today from our experts will be very disturbing, yet equally helpful, as this committee continues to look for ways to combat this issue. These hearings have been a catalyst for more legislation aimed at curbing this serious problem. As we discussed at a hearing in May, our Georgia colleague, Dr. Gingrey, introduced legislation on behalf of his very courageous constituent, Masha Allen. I am a proud cosponsor of this legislation that will increase civil remedies for a victim of child pornographic images over the Internet. Tomorrow, we will discuss more about Masha’s adoption and see if there was anything that could have been done earlier to save that little girl from her horrendous situation. I also understand that Congresswoman DeGette has legislation that will address the Internet Service Provider’s role through data retention. Congresswoman, I applaud your efforts and look forward to working with you on this important issue. We must not stop until we combat this problem on all levels. Mr. Chairman, thank you again for your continued leadership and dedication to this problem
09.26.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess made the following statement upon hearing of the death of his constituent and friend Byron Nelson: “I am deeply saddened by the news of Byron Nelson’s death. He was the best of men, and a gentleman to all. His strength of character and generosity to others set him apart. Because of the greatness of Lord Byron, I have devoted time this year to nominating him for a Congressional Gold Medal. In fact, this bill was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives and is on the brink of being completed in the Senate. I had the good fortune of speaking with Mr. Nelson just last week to convey the recent success of our efforts. I will continue my work to award Byron Nelson the Congressional Gold Medal. Always humble and gracious, Byron Nelson shied away from publicity or accolades for his good work. His devotion to those less privileged was apparent, and his warmth and gracious demeanor were his hallmarks. It is with great respect and sincerity that I convey my condolences to Peggy, his wife, and to his entire family.” About Byron Nelson Byron Nelson's accomplishments as a professional golfer are as impressive as his golf swing. There is a reason why he is the only PGA professional golfer that has a PGA tour named in his honor: the EDS Byron Nelson Championship. Mr. Nelson won 54 career victories, including winning two Masters (1937 and 1942), two PGA Championships (1940 and 1945), and the U.S. Open (1939). He is one of only two golfers to be named "Male Athlete of the Year" twice by the Associated Press, and the World Golf Hall of Fame honored Byron Nelson in 2004 by featuring an exhibit entitled "Byron Nelson: A Champion...A Gentleman." While Mr. Nelson has obtained the status as a world class athlete, it is his humanitarian efforts that are truly first class. He is a champion for the underprivileged and has given his time, talents, and funds to make this a better world. Bryon Nelson and the EDS Byron Nelson Championship has raised over $88,000,000 for the Salesmanship Club Youth and Family Centers, a nonprofit agency that provides education and mental health services for more than 2,700 children and their families in the greater Dallas area. Additionally, the Byron and Louise Nelson Golf Endowment Fund has provided over $1.5 million in endowment funds to Abilene Christian University in Abilene, Texas. Another example of his service is his dedication to the Metroport Meals on Wheels which provides daily, home-delivered, hot lunch for the frail, elderly and chronically ill residents. Byron Nelson has been an active honorary chairman since 1992. CBS SportsLine's Bill Macatee on Byron Nelson
09.21.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Deleting Commercial Child Pornography Sites from the Internet: The U.S. Financial Industry’s Efforts to Combat this Problem September 21, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for the continuation of this important series of hearings. Over the past few months, our committee has taken up the important cause of protecting our children from sexual exploitation over the Internet. My emotions on this horrific issue have ranged from shock to disgust to a strong desire to completely eradicate this problem. I, for one, have learned a great deal more than what I ever wanted to know about this topic. However, it is crucial for the safety of our children for all of us to know about these evils so that we can help end this abusive and dangerous practice. While the pedophiles are our biggest enemy, we must also continue to look and combat everyone associated with this crime. I am glad that today we are focusing on the efforts of the financial industry. The representatives from reputable credit card companies will provide a valuable insight into what their respective companies are doing. I am also very interested in discussing with Dr. Douglas Jackson his company, e-Gold. I do not understand the need for an anonymous digital currency, and I look forward to hearing from Dr. Jackson about his company’s due diligence and role in stopping illegal activities like child pornography. Today, we also have with us Mr. Ernie Allen, President and CEO of NCMEC, who will be discussing the creation and role of The Financial Coalition Against Child Pornography at NCMEC. From my understanding, it has been reported the Mr. Allen believes that the Financial Coalition can eradicate commercial child pornography by 2008. I think I can speak on behalf of the rest of the committee that we would all like to learn more about how he thinks this goal is attainable. Mr. Chairman, thank you again for your continued leadership and dedication to this grave situation. I look forward to working with you and others on the committee as we continue to seek solutions to this most horrid problem. It is my sincere hope that this hearing will be a catalyst for more legislation aimed at curbing this problem.
09.21.2006	Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) this week voted for three major pieces of legislation that will help increase border security and crack down on illegal immigration. The three bills, which all passed the U.S. House of Representatives, were developed after House Republicans held more than 20 field hearings in the months of July and August to examine the issue of border security and identify ways to improve our nation’s current immigration system. The three bills passed by the House were the Community Protection Act of 2006, the Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006, and the Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2006. “The fight to secure our borders is an ongoing effort,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “Last year we passed a series of border bills, and this week, we have shown our commitment to bringing an immediate impact in securing our borders and securing our nation.” Through increased enforcement efforts along our borders, there has been a sizeable decrease in the number of illegal immigrants crossing the borders over the past several months. “Texas is on the front lines of the battle of the borders,” said Congressman Burgess. “I will aggressive support measures that truly help us defend, strengthen and secure our borders.” Details on the bills: H.R. 6094, the Community Protection Act of 2006 Detaining Dangerous Aliens Who Are Unable to be Deported The Community Protection Act ensures that dangerous illegal immigrants who cannot be deported, cannot likewise be released into society. Many illegal immigrants being detained by the Department of Homeland Security are unable to be deported for a variety of reasons. Yet under current law, DHS cannot detain these illegal immigrants for more than six months, even if the individual has committed a violent crime or represents a threat to national security. As a result, hundreds of criminals are released back onto our streets. This legislation allows such illegal immigrants to be detained for periods of six months at a time, and then allows for the period of detention to be renewed. It also provides for judicial review. Expediting the Removal of Alien Criminals The Community Protection Act allows the Department of Homeland Security to use the same expedited procedures available for the removal of aggravated felons to remove other criminal aliens who are not permanent residents and are otherwise ineligible for relief. At the present time, these aliens are placed in lengthy removal proceedings even though they are not eligible for any relief. Detaining and Deporting Alien Gang Members The Community Protection Act toughens laws against alien gang members. Under the bill, an illegal immigrant who is found to be part of a criminal street gang would be subject to detention, deportation, and would be ineligible for receiving asylum or temporary protected status. H.R. 6095, the Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006 Reaffirming the Authority of State and Local Law Enforcement to Enforce Immigration Laws The Immigration Law Enforcement Act reaffirms the inherent authority of state and local law enforcement to voluntarily investigate, identify, apprehend, arrest, detain, and transfer to federal custody illegal immigrants. Many state and local law enforcement officers want to assist in the enforcement of immigration laws, and they can play a valuable role in assisting federal law immigration officers. Increasing Prosecutions of Alien Smugglers United States attorney offices do not have uniform guidelines for the prosecution of alien smuggling offenses, and many of these offices face a tremendous workload and are unable to prosecute a sufficient number of alien smuggling cases. As a result, our Border Patrol agents see many of the smugglers they apprehend go free. The Immigration Law Enforcement Act authorizes an increase in the number of attorneys to prosecute alien smuggling cases, and expresses Congress’ sense that the attorney general should establish uniform guidelines for the prosecution of alien smugglers. Imposing “Catch & Return” Instead of “Catch & Release” The Immigration Law Enforcement Act helps close loopholes that have hurt the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to enforce immigration laws. For example, an injunction dating from the El Salvadoran civil war of the 1980s prevents DHS from placing Salvadorans in expedited removal proceedings, even though the civil war has long since ended. DHS uses expedited removal proceedings to quickly remove illegal immigrants who are apprehended along the Southern border, in order to end the policy of “catch and release,” where illegal immigrants have been released into the general population while they await deportation proceedings. Many criminal gangs have exploited these loopholes, which this bill would help close. H.R. 4830, the Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2006 Criminalizing the Construction and Financing of Border Tunnels The Border Tunnel Prevention Act enacts criminal penalties of up to 20 years’ imprisonment for individuals who knowingly construct or finance the construction of an unauthorized tunnel across a U.S. international border. In addition, individuals who recklessly permit the construction of such a tunnel on their own property are subject to imprisonment of up to 10 years. Individuals caught using such a tunnel to smuggle aliens, contraband, drugs, weapons, or terrorists are subject to twice the penalty that would have otherwise been imposed.
09.19.2006	Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing today. You should be lauded for proposing important improvements to how the National Institutes of Health operate and prioritize essential medical research. I’ve had the pleasure of visiting NIH numerous times, to talk with researchers and institute directors and I am consistently impressed by the work happening at NIH. NIH is truly the crown jewel of the federal government and we should all be proud of the organization’s dedication to improving the health of Americans and mankind. Be it a cure for cancer or a greater understanding of the Human Genome, the NIH has a proven record of innovation. I believe that the bill before us represents important improvements to achieve the numerous missions that NIH has undertaken. Creation of the Common Fund is especially important to address diseases and public health threats that may not fit neatly into one single institute’s portfolio. The Scientific Management Review Group is also an important component designed to evaluate the design of existing institutes and centers. As medical research and the practice of medicine evolves, it is important that NIH is an agile and responsive organization. The Review Group will provide important internal accountability at NIH that is subject to scientific realities and not decisions based on politics. This is a good bill. By increasing the authorization level by 5 percent, the Energy and Commerce Committee has produced a bipartisan approach to capitalizing on the gains made by NIH over the past several years.
09.14.2006	Submitted to The Hill's CongressBlogWould you purchase a car without reading what costs the car dealership added? Then why should we expect health care consumers to purchase their care without seeing the true cost? Outside of terrorism and the War in Iraq, the affordability of health care is among most American’s chief concerns. One reason why health care does cost so much is that it is difficult for the consumer to influence the price at any point. A myriad of payers, government and third parties have obscured the cost of care over time to the point where it is even difficult for practitioners to know how much services cost. I have devised a new way of looking at health care transparency. My legislation, H.R. 6053, The Health Care Price Transparency Act of 2006, will oblige states to create systems that would require hospitals to disclose charges, to provide access to that information, and to have health plans provide a statement of the estimated out-of-pocket costs of an individual for anticipated future health care services. The American health care system needs a healthy dose of transparency so that consumers can truly be knowledgeable and responsible for making their own health care decisions.
09.14.2006	U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) issued the following statement after House passage of the Secure Fence Act (H.R. 6061), introduced by Homeland Security Committee Chairman Peter King (R-NY): “I have always said that the most critical move a doctor makes on the operating table is to stop the hemorrhaging. This analogy accurate reflects our problem along the borders. The porous borders must be secured now. That’s what I believe; that’s what most Americans believe; and that is what House Republicans are providing.” The hearings held over August by House Republicans demonstrated that a majority of Americans want Congress to focus on border security first. The Secure Fence Act would strengthen operational control of all borders and ports through additional physical barriers and fencing and greater use of state-of-the-art technology and surveillance along the southwest border, including: · Authorizing more than 700 miles of two-layered reinforced fencing along the southwest border with prioritized placement at critical, highly populated areas and requiring an evaluation of infrastructure needs along the northern border; · Mandating that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) achieve and maintain operational control over the entire border through a “virtual fence” that deploys cameras, ground sensors, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), and integrated surveillance technology; · Requiring DHS to provide all necessary authority to border personnel to disable fleeing vehicles, similar to the authority held by the United States Coast Guard for maritime vessels; and · Requiring DHS to assess vulnerabilities on the northern border.
09.13.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD Continuing Ethics and Management Concerns at the NIH and Public Health Service Commissioned Corps September 13, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman. During my tenure in Congress, I have had the privilege of visiting NIH multiple times. After each visit, I am amazed by the research and study that their scientists perform on a daily basis. After each visit, my hope that a cure for cancer, a cure for Alzheimer’s, will be found, if not during my lifetime, then my children’s. The doctors, the researchers, and the scientists at NIH deserve our utmost thanks and appreciation for their dedication to this profession. Outside consulting by scientists is not, within itself, an unethical practice. These are extremely intelligent individuals who have knowledge that is useful beyond their own labs – that’s why the federal government pays them to begin with. While outside consulting is currently prohibited by NIH employees, these types of arrangements can be extremely beneficial to society if constructed in an ethical and transparent manner. Full disclosure of business affiliations and financial arrangements is critical, however. The situation before us involving Dr. Sunderland is a sad example of how the system can fail if there is a lack of transparency and a lack of ethical behavior. Nevertheless, it should be pointed out that conveniently burying Dr. Sunderland’s resignation request in bureaucracy is not an appropriate method of dealing with his violations. What originated as an appropriate investigation of conflicts of interest within the scientific community has revealed that the NIH and Public Health Service have management issues at much higher levels to resolve. I look forward to having these issues addressed. Congress is still working on the reauthorization of NIH. I feel certain that we will use the information learned today throughout the reauthorization process. It is our role to provide adequate oversight over NIH and ensure that taxpayers’ dollars and other resources, including tissue samples, are used in a worthwhile and ethical manner. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this hearing and look forward to a lively discussion. I yield back the remainder of my time.
09.13.2006	Last night, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced H.R. 6053, Health Care Price Transparency Act of 2006. The following statement may be attributed to Rep. Burgess: We currently have a health care system that is badly in need of reform. However, in the tangled mess of medical bureaucracy, no one has a clear picture of the problem. Physicians and other providers don’t get paid enough, patients pay too much, many people don’t get any care at all, and everyone claims that someone else needs to change. Before we start changing things, though, it seems prudent to understand the problem fully. Today, I have introduced legislation with that goal in mind. This is a first step toward true price transparency in the health care market. The Health Care Price Transparency Act of 2006 is a long-term solution to runaway medical costs. This bill calls upon the States to establish and maintain laws requiring disclosure of information on hospital charges, to make such information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. This means that State law will require health insurance providers to give patients an actual dollar estimate of what the patient must pay for health care items and services within a specified period of time. Additionally, the bill calls for research on: (1) The types of cost information that individuals find useful in making decisions regarding healthcare; (2) How this useful information varies according to an individual’s health insurance coverage, and if so, by what type of coverage they have; and (3) Ways that this information may be distributed in a timely and simple manner. These are simple but important provisions. The current health insurance system has insulated people from the actual cost of the medical care they receive. By pulling back the curtain on opaque areas of the health care market, over time, this legislation will lead to the development of a more rational pricing structure from the consumer’s perspective. Once we understand the actual cost, then we can begin to make effective changes leading to fair physician reimbursement, appropriate patient billing, and better medical services. In August, President Bush issued an executive order calling for increased transparency within the federal government’s health care agencies. This legislation is an extension of that executive order, giving states the tools to become part of a necessary solution for health care consumers.
09.11.2006	Patriot Day, 2006 - Newton Rayzor Elementary School Remembering September 11, 2006Remarks given by Congressman Michael C. Burgess at Newton Rayzor Elementary School: Five years have passed since our country was attacked on a quiet fall morning. On that day, thousands of innocent lives were taken from us. The victims and their families remain in the hearts and prayers. But today is not just a day of sadness. On September 11, 2001, the world witnessed the amazing courage and fortitude of our country. Today, we also honor the firefighters, police officers, emergency personnel, and private citizens who showed their heroism. Together, American has stood strong and united in our combating terrorism at home and abroad. As I look at the young faces before me today, I know there is a bright future for America. You are a generation of strength and hope. I encourage you to study the history of America and her founding principles of democracy. These are the cornerstones of our society. You will learn that some people and some countries envy the freedom Americans possess, and they want to do us harm. Thousands of Americans are working every day to help defend America, prevent future attacks and keep you safe. We are grateful to all of these men and women for their service. Today, we honor those who have lost their lives defending our freedom, and we pray that God comfort their families. On this solemn 5th Anniversary of September 11th, I wanted to let you know that America will stand strong for years to come, and that I hope that when you see the American flag or sing the National Anthem that you will remember what a privilege it is to live in the United States.
09.07.2006	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT & INVESTIGATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING: "BP's Pipeline Spills at Prudhoe Bay: What Went Wrong?" September 7, 2006 Mr. Chairman, thank you for convening this hearing this morning. Like most of my constituents, I was extremely concerned to learn of the oil spill in Alaska in March of this year. It was the largest spill so far in Alaska and it is my hope that this remains the case. This spill posed risk to both the environment and to our domestic supply of oil. Luckily, experts believe that there will be no permanent environmental damage from the spill. But we must ensure that pipeline maintenance practices do not jeopardize the environment or expose us to a supply disruption. While I believe that BP's initial decision in August to shut in the Prudhoe Bay field following the discovery of corrosion was prudent, I am extremely troubled by the fact that this situation could have been prevented. What is especially troubling is that these transmission pipelines lines had not been pigged, either with a scraping pig or a smart pig, since 1992 or 1998. Pigging is not a new technology, but is a standard industry practice. BP's failure to conduct this type of routine maintenance put in jeopardy our ability to access the crude oil produced by the entire Prudhoe Bay field. The Prudhoe Bay field counts for nearly 5% of U.S. domestic production, approximately, 400,000 barrels per day, so the temporary loss of this supply has the potential to significantly impact oil prices. That makes this a bigger issue than just one company's pipeline maintenance practices. I am looking forward to hearing from BP about what happened and having the opportunity to question the witnesses appearing before us today. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
09.07.2006	Republican House Members today applauded the continued progress of the Iraqi government on its path to full independence. Iraq today assumed full control of the Iraqi armed forces, putting the prime minister in direct control of the military. Congressmen Michael C. Burgess signed on to the following statement by the Victory in Iraq Caucus: “Today’s transfer of the Iraqi military to direct Iraqi government control is a major step toward Iraq’s full independence. Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is committed to achieving a stable democratic society in Iraq. A competent military is essential for success. “With two thirds of the Iraqi Army's combat units in the lead, we are encouraged that Iraqi Security Forces are assuming more responsibility for the security of their country. As these brave Iraqis continue to take the lead against those who seek to deprive their countrymen of the rights they have fought to secure, we will continue to stand with them. “Success in Iraq is vital to world stability and security in the United States. Today’s transfer is one step further to achieving victory in Iraq.”
09.07.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) voted in favor of passage of HR 503, American Horse Slaughter Prevention Act. The final vote was 263-146. “North Texas is horse country,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “Horses are magnificent animals. It pains me to think that there is underground trafficking of horses that likely steal family pets for slaughter.” Each year nearly 100,000 horses are slaughtered in America. Although horse meat for human consumption is the United States does not exist, it is considered a delicacy in some parts of Europe and Asia. There are currently three horse slaughter plants in the United States, two in Texas, and they ship the processed meat out of the country. “My committee spent considerable time reviewing the details surrounding the controversial issue of horse slaughter,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “After listening to the expert testimonies and the overwhelming input from my constituents, I certainly agree that these noble creatures should not be treated so inhumanely. They deserve respect and the same treatment we would give to family dog or cat.”
08.29.2006	“I have always believed that the people of North Texas are kind and giving to all. During natural disasters and difficult times in the past, citizens of North Texas have always dedicated their time and resources to helping one another. “When Hurricane Katrina swept through the Gulf Coast, an unprecedented number of families were displaced. Many of these individuals were left with nothing except the water and wind torn clothes on their back. In some instances, family members were split apart and many needed immediate medical care. “As the days rolled on, thousands of Gulf Coast residents, primarily from New Orleans, made their way to North Texas. Our Fort Worth District Office at the Resource Connection became an emergency response center set-up by the Red Cross. I was there as bus loads of evacuees were brought in for food, water and care. “Volunteers throughout the community were on hand and dedicating resources of all kinds including clothes, blankets, money, and toys. In addition to our facility, hotels and churches throughout North Texas opened their doors to accommodate the massive influx of people. “The Dallas Convention Center because a sea of individuals. I am equally proud of the medical community of North Texas which responded quickly to the call for help. A fax went out through the medical societies for volunteers over the Labor Day weekend to help evacuees. Hundreds of doctors arrived, on their own time, and volunteered their expertise. “But perhaps most telling of all was the story of one of my staff members who helped to reunite a mother with her child. On this one year anniversary, they have expressed their gratitude to our office for helping them find their way back to each other. “These stories of care and kindheartedness were not unique during the Hurricane Katrina, but I am particularly honored to represent North Texas and all her volunteer heroes. “I admit that there have been significant obstacles in the government’s efforts to rebuild. Congress has appropriated a considerable amount of funds to this purpose, but we must do more. The federal funding not withstanding, it is imperative that we step-up our congressional oversight responsibility to insure that these funds are utilized effectively and wisely for both the American taxpayers and the citizens of the Gulf Coast. “For my work, I have committed to working through the roadblocks, problems and bureaucratic red-tape that hindered and unduly prolonged the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina. I have supported legislation aimed at streamlining emergency response efforts at the federal level as well as bills to bring monetary relief and support to those who lost everything. “Although we are not able to control natural disasters, we are able to control our response to them. We are a resolute country, and I know that we must constantly strive to mitigate the pain and suffering from disasters. We have learned from Katrina, but we must continue to improve our efforts and adapt accordingly. Everyone one of us has a responsibility to look after ourselves and a duty to help our fellow man. On this one year anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, I am proud to say that North Texans showed their true grit, determination and generosity. Thank you again.” Congress has Appropriated More than $122.5 billion for Katrina and Rita Relief Disaster Relief Ø TANF Emergency Response and Recovery Act of 2005: This emergency bill helped speed individuals’ access to federal disaster relief by removing red tape and increasing the availability of federal funds. Ø Social Services Emergency Relief and Recovery Act of 2005: This legislation helped Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama provide regular unemployment benefits to workers who lost their jobs as a result of Hurricane Katrina and provided critical health assistance to low-income individuals. Ø Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005: This legislation focused on revitalizing the hurricane-damaged economies in the Gulf region and promoting economic development. Ø Katrina Emergency Tax Relief Act of 2005: This bill provided tax relief to individuals and families affected by Hurricane Katrina to increase the resources available to them as they worked to rebuild their lives. Ø Hurricane Katrina Emergency Relief Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Flexibility Act of 2005: This legislation would waive the cap on the amount of CDBG funds that can be used for community services and waive public hearing requirements for areas affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. (House passed) In addition, the fiscal year 2006 defense appropriations bill provided $11.5 billion for CDBGs for hurricane-affected areas. Ø Hurricane Katrina Emergency Housing Act of 2005: This legislation would temporarily waive certain rules in the Section 8 housing voucher program to increase hurricane victims’ access to housing. (House passed) Helping Children and Schools Ø Hurricane Relief Supplemental: This legislation provided financial assistance to colleges and universities that had enrolled displaced students; reimbursed public, private, and charter schools that had enrolled displaced students; helped public, private, and charter schools damaged by the hurricanes get the supplies they needed to reopen; and provided funds for Head Start to help cover costs not covered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Ø Emergency Appropriations Conference Report: This legislation provided an additional $235 million to assist displaced elementary and high school students and $50 million in grant aid to help colleges and universities defray hurricane-related expenses. It also provided assistance to Gulf Coast historically black colleges and universities affected by the storms. Ø Pell Grant Hurricane and Disaster Relief Act: This legislation waived Pell Grant repayment requirements for students forced to withdraw from college because of a natural disaster. Ø Natural Disaster Student Aid Fairness Act: This bill allowed the Department of Education to redirect funds to the schools most damaged by the hurricanes. Improving Federal Disaster Relief Last year’s Gulf Coast hurricanes exposed weaknesses in our federal emergency management system. Over the past year, the Republican-led Congress has worked closely with the President to address these weaknesses and improve the federal government’s response to natural disasters. Earlier this year, the Administration released a comprehensive report that reviewed the federal response to Katrina and made recommendations for improving the Federal government’s response to future disasters. The President’s Homeland Security Council has been holding weekly meetings with departments and agencies to review Katrina actions and implement stronger disaster relief protocols. FEMA has taken widespread actions to improve its own capabilities and coordination efforts. This includes upgrades to FEMA’s situational awareness, emergency communications, and commodity distribution and tracking capabilities, plus FEMA’s debris removal, temporary housing and victim management programs. The Department of Homeland Security has dramatically increased its stockpiles of MREs, water, and ice – stocking enough to feed 1 million people for an entire week – and increased the number of disaster assistance employees 100 percent, from approximately 4,000 employees last year to approximately 8,000 today. Helping Small Businesses Over the past year, the Small Business Administration (SBA) has provided a record $10.3 billion in disaster loans to small businesses affected by last year’s hurricanes. These loans have provided a lifeline to thousands of small business owners in the Gulf region, many of whom might otherwise have had to close their businesses. Republicans in Congress have worked to ensure that the SBA continues to receive the funds needed to continue these loans. The emergency supplemental appropriations bill the president signed in June contained $542 million for the SBA’s disaster loan program to allow the program to provide up to $12.2 billion in disaster loans in fiscal year 2006. To build on these successes, House Republicans on the Small Business Committee are working to pass legislation to increase the SBA’s ability to help small business owners in the wake of natural disasters. Among other things, the proposed legislation will do the following: Ø Allow the SBA to offer disaster loans of up to $10 million in the wake of a major catastrophe; Ø Allow small businesses around the country to apply for economic injury disaster loans in the wake of a major catastrophe; and Ø Allow small nonprofits to apply for economic injury disaster loans in the wake of a major catastrophe. Improving our Energy Infrastructure The 2005 Gulf Coast hurricanes damaged a significant portion of our nation’s refining capacity, which has only recently begun to return to its pre-hurricane production levels. Twelve percent of our nation’s oil production on the Gulf Coast remains shut down, resulting in 179,970 fewer barrels of domestic oil per day. Last year’s hurricanes were a stern reminder that our nation’s refinery capacity is not sufficient, and that it is concentrated in a part of the country that is susceptible to devastating hurricane damage. House Republicans have worked to address these problems by passing the Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act. This legislation would streamline the convoluted refinery permitting process to help speed the construction of new refineries, while preserving strict environmental standards.
08.22.2006	The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) concerning President George W. Bush’s signing an executive order committing the federal government to making health care pricing more transparent: “President Bush receives my praise for committing the federal government to promoting health care transparency. The President's executive order applied to the federal government closely mirrors the principles I am addressing at the state level through the bill I intend to introduce this fall. “A lack of transparency has created a system where customers do not have the ability to hold providers and payers accountable. We have reached a point where all providers have difficulty being cost conscious because nobody really knows what anything costs anymore. Congress must play a role in leveling the playing field in favor of the health care consumer. “My health care transparency legislation will require the laws of the states to disclose information on hospital charges, to provide access that information, and to provide a statement of the estimated out-of-pocket costs of an individual for anticipated future health care services. “Additionally, the bill will call upon the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) to conduct research on the types of cost information that individuals find useful in making decisions regarding health care. The study should unveil how useful this information is and how it varies according to an individual’s health insurance coverage. Ideally, the study will also show ways that information may be distributed in a timely and simple manner. I envision this bill paving the way for a future where the true cost of health care is evident to all. “The American health care system needs a healthy dose of transparency so that consumers can truly be knowledgeable and responsible for making their own health care decisions.”
08.15.2006	More than 150 participants attended the 2006 East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit which aimed to highlight areas where the community could spur economic growth. This is the second Economic Development Summit hosted by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26). The East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit, organized by the Public Forum Institute and hosted by honorary chairman U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, was held to update the vision for the economic future of the region, and to review the set of recommendations to address a number of challenges facing local communities. Building on last year’s summit, the summit asked local community members and parties committed to the redevelopment of the community, to present their thoughts and identify areas of concern that impact East and Southeast Fort Worth development. Later in the program, Congressman Michael Burgess called for a unified vision for East and Southeast Fort Worth that addressed economic development from the inside out. “There is an incredible local drive for economic development in East and Southeast Fort Worth,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “It is my job, as their representative in Congress, to provide the tools necessary to end the cycle of neglect; it is the communities’ responsibility to utilize those tools – it is a joint effort. We have made progress from last year’s summit, but I want to see more and expect to see more in the near future as we band together to revitalize the area.” The event chaired by U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess included remarks and presentations from Forth Worth Mayor Mike Moncrief and Commissioner Roy Brooks, and a keynote address by Roy O. Priest, Chairman, YouthBuild USA. Mr. Priest is former CEO of National Congress for Community Economic Development and Director for Community Development for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in Washington, DC (retired) with over 17 years experience with HUD in areas associated with community development. The program covered various topics which included Building Communities & Changing Perceptions, Encouraging Entrepreneurship, Preparing the Workforce of the Future and Attracting Investment, both for residential and commercial development. Overall, the format of the summit was a combination of presentations by community leaders, workshops, panel sessions, and an interactive technology – eFORUM – designed to collect instant feedback from summit participants and identify consensus on action steps and plans. When asked which project do you believe will have the greatest impact on East and Southeast Fort Worth, the Evans/Rosedale project received 25% of the vote closely followed by the Oakbrook/Sierra Vista with 24%. When asked “what was the most significant roadblock to economic development in the region?” lack of cooperation, and access to early stage capital ranked first and second. In sighting the greatest asset of the area, proximity to major economic engines, like the medical district and Carter Industrial Park, and the affordability of commercial and residential properties ranked highest. The Berry/Riverside TIF (tax increment financing) was considered the best step forward in the last year for East and Southeast Fort Worth. The final question asked if holding the summit annual is helpful for redevelopment efforts and as a benchmark to progress, 84% of responders said yes. A report will be published online to encourage and facilitate future action on the priorities agreed upon at the summit. On a regular basis, the working groups will meet, using the report to benchmark progress made on the four focus areas. The report will be available at the organization’s website – www.publicforuminstitute.org - at the end of the week. "We are proud to continue our role as a convener of innovative ideas to spur economic growth in East and Southeast Fort Worth. With leadership from Congressman Burgess, along with City and County officials, the future of the region looks promising." If there is not a spot for this, don't worry about it.
08.10.2006	Homeland Security Advisory System Homeland Security Advisory System Current Threat Level August 10, 2006 – The United States Government is raising the nation’s threat level for the aviation sector to: Code Red or Severe for flights originating in the United Kingdom bound for the United States Code Orange or High for all commercial aviation operating in or destined for the United States. The rest of the country remains at Code Yellow. Currently, there is no indication of plotting within the United States. We believe the arrests of extremists engaged in a substantial plot to destroy multiple passenger aircraft flying from the United Kingdom to the United States have significantly disrupted the threat, but we cannot be sure that the threat has been entirely eliminated or the plot completely thwarted. Consistent with these higher threat levels, the Transportation Security Administration is implementing changes to airport screening procedures to include: No liquids or gels of any kind will be permitted in carry-on baggage. Items must be in checked baggage. Exception: baby formula, breast milk, or juice if a baby or small child is traveling; prescription medicine, insulin and essential other non-prescription medicines. Travelers should also anticipate additional security measures within the airport and at screening checkpoints. More detailed information available at TSA.gov. Recommended Activities All Americans, including those traveling in the transportation systems, should continue to be vigilant, take notice of their surroundings, and report suspicions items or activities to local authorities immediately. Everybody should establish an emergency preparedness kit as well as a communications plan for themselves and their family, and stay informed about what to do during an emergency situation. Learn More About Preparedness All Americans can visit www.ready.gov ______________________________________________________________ About the Homeland Security Advisory System The Homeland Security Advisory System is designed to target our protective measures when specific information to a specific sector or geographic region is received. It combines threat information with vulnerability assessments and provides communications to public safety officials and the public. Homeland Security Threat Advisories contain actionable information about an incident involving, or a threat targeting, critical national networks or infrastructures or key assets. They could, for example, relay newly developed procedures that, when implemented, would significantly improve security or protection. They could also suggest a change in readiness posture, protective actions, or response. This category includes products formerly named alerts, advisories, and sector notifications. Advisories are targeted to Federal, state, and local governments, private sector organizations, and international partners. Homeland Security Information Bulletins communicate information of interest to the nation’s critical infrastructures that do not meet the timeliness, specificity, or significance thresholds of warning messages. Such information may include statistical reports, periodic summaries, incident response or reporting guidelines, common vulnerabilities and patches, and configuration standards or tools. It also may include preliminary requests for information. Bulletins are targeted to Federal, state, and local governments, private sector organizations, and international partners. Color-coded Threat Level System is used to communicate with public safety officials and the public at-large through a threat-based, color-coded system so that protective measures can be implemented to reduce the likelihood or impact of an attack. Raising the threat condition has economic, physical, and psychological effects on the nation; so, the Homeland Security Advisory System can place specific geographic regions or industry sectors on a higher alert status than other regions or industries, based on specific threat information. >> Citizen Guidance on the Homeland Security Advisory System (PDF - 1 page, 132 KB) Download this one-page guide with recommended actions for each level. Developed with input from the American Red Cross. (link to an external site) >> Guidance for federal departments and agencies More on DHS.Gov Chronology of Changes to the Homeland Security Advisory System Federal Aviation AdministrationIn response to a serious terrorist threat to international aviation security, the Secretary of Homeland Security has elevated the Homeland Security Advisory System Threat Condition to Severe, or Red, for all commercial flights from the United Kingdom to the United States, and to High, or Orange, for all other international flights and all domestic commercial aviation. There are approximately 106 flights per day between the United Kingdom and the United States. Although numerous arrests have been made in the U.K. to disrupt and neutralize this threat, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is taking a number of heightened protective measures to ensure the continued safety and security of our international and domestic air travel. Protecting the Aviation System The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) will be implementing a series of security measures – some visible and some not visible – to ensure the security of the traveling public and the Nation's transportation system. TSA is immediately implementing following changes to airport screening procedures: NO LIQUIDS OR GELS OF ANY KIND WILL BE PERMITTED IN CARRY-ON BAGGAGE. ITEMS MUST BE IN CHECKED BAGGAGE. This includes all beverages, shampoo, suntan lotion, creams, tooth paste, hair gel, and other items of similar consistency. Exception: Baby formula, breast milk, or juice if a baby or small child is traveling; prescription medicine with a name that matches the passenger’s ticket; and insulin and essential other non-prescription medicines Beverages purchased in the sterile area must be consumed before boarding because they will not be permitted onboard the aircraft. Passengers traveling from the U.K. to the U.S. will be subject to a more extensive screening process. Some measures will not be visible to the public. In light of the elevated threat level, the Federal Air Marshals Service (FAMS) will provide expanded mission coverage for flights from the United Kingdom to the United States. These measures will be constantly evaluated and updated when circumstances warrant. DHS and its components have coordinated closely with the air carrier industry, airports, and state and local stakeholders to implement these significant, but necessary, security measures. The traveling public can assist these agencies in carrying out their important security duties by: Packing lightly, without clutter to facilitate easier screening. Check with your air carrier well before your flight departs for information on when you shoudl arrive at the airport. Cooperating with TSA personnel at all checkpoints and gates because TSA Security Officers will be checking carry-on baggage at the gate. Being attentive and vigilant to any suspicious activity. Protecting U.S.Borders U.S. Customs and Border Protection will increase enforcement efforts in international arrival areas including the use of advanced targeting tools, special response teams including baggage and aircraft search teams, baggage x-ray equipment, specially-trained canine units, and explosive detection technology. DHS has also mandated that all flights from the U.K. transmit passenger manifest information for intensive screening prior to departure from the gate. In addition, passengers on these flights and all other international flights will be subject to heightened inspection upon arrival in the U.S.Statement by Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff Announcing a Change to the Nation’s Threat Level for the Aviation Sector The Department of Homeland Security is taking immediate steps to increase security measures in the aviation sector in coordination with heightened security precautions in the United Kingdom. Over the last few hours, British authorities have arrested a significant number of extremists engaged in a substantial plot to destroy multiple passenger aircraft flying from the United Kingdom to the United States. Currently, there is no indication, however, of plotting within the United States. We believe that these arrests have significantly disrupted the threat, but we cannot be sure that the threat has been entirely eliminated or the plot completely thwarted. For that reason, the United States Government has raised the nation’s threat level to Severe, or Red, for commercial flights originating in the United Kingdom bound for the United States. This adjustment reflects the Critical, or highest, alert level that has been implemented in the United Kingdom. To defend further against any remaining threat from this plot, we will also raise the threat level to High, or Orange, for all commercial aviation operating in or destined for the United States. Consistent with these higher threat levels, the Transportation Security Administration is coordinating with federal partners, airport authorities and commercial airlines on expanding the intensity of existing security requirements. Due to the nature of the threat revealed by this investigation, we are prohibiting any liquids, including beverages, hair gels, and lotions from being carried on the airplane. This determination will be constantly evaluated and updated when circumstances warrant. These changes will take effect at 4:00 AM local time across the country. Travelers should also anticipate additional security measures within the airport and at screening checkpoints. These measures will continue to assure that our aviation system remains safe and secure. Travelers should go about their plans confidently, while maintaining vigilance in their surroundings and exercising patience with screening and security officials. The United States and the United Kingdom are fully united and resolute in this effort and in our ongoing efforts to secure our respective homelands.
08.10.2006	The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26): Cooperation among the international intelligence community was critical in thwarting this terror plot. Locally, DFW Airport, American Airlines and my office began communicating early this morning about flight operation status and the impact on North Texans traveling. I realize that some individuals may experience longer lines at the airports, but I believe, as we are nearly one month away from the 5th Anniversary of 9/11, that a little accommodation and patience on our part is well worth the security we are provided. The minor frustration over new security measures may inconvenience individuals, but to the best of their abilities the Transportation Security Administration is working to balance security and comfort for all passengers. Intelligence work is a tedious investment of time and energy, but its dividends catch terrorists and keep us all safe.
07.27.2006	Thank you, Mr. Chairman for holding this hearing today. I would also like to extend a welcome to Dr. Mann -- I am glad that you are able to join us. This afternoon we will continue to examine issues surrounding Dr. Mann's Hockey Stick Temperature Studies. Last week we held "part one" of this hearing and heard from a number of panelists on this issue, including Dr. Crowley, who was suggested by Dr. Mann when he was unable to join us. I would like to commend Chairman Whitfield and Chairman Barton for giving Dr. Mann the opportunity to respond to the questions and, in some cases, criticism raised about his work during last week's hearing. It is important, as we move through testimony this afternoon, to remember that the focus of this hearing is not global climate change. Instead, we are using these Hockey Stick temperature studies as a case study as we examine at the quality and rigor of science being performed today. Dr. Wegman and his Ad Hoc committee have suggested that there has not been sufficient peer review of Dr. Mann's Hockey Stick studies. They have raised the question of whether we should bring in experts outside the immediate field of the subject at hand to evaluate scientific analysis. This is an important question and one that we should consider carefully. As policy makers, and not scientists, we do not have the technical background to evaluate the science behind climatology. We depend on scientists and experts to review each other's work to ensure that we have sound and trustworthy scientific analysis from which to work. I think that we, as policy makers, have the responsibility to ask tough questions too. Without sound science, we cannot have sound policy. I'd like to thank our witnesses again from appearing before us today and am looking forward to hearing your testimony. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
07.27.2006	Thank you, Mr. Chairman for holding this important hearing. When our constituents think of the movement of products and goods across the country -- most of them think about large trucks on the highway carrying everything from ice cream to new cars. Some think of the railroads and others think about the barges that traverse the Mississippi. But few think of the interstate transmission pipelines that transport huge volumes of crude oil, refined products including gasoline and natural gas; unless something goes wrong. Congress last updated the federal pipeline safety law in 2002. Among other things, the bill required operators of regulated gas pipelines in densely populated areas to conduct risk analysis and periodic inspections, and to strengthen public education regarding pipeline safety. The good news is that the provisions adopted as part of this legislation are working -- safety has improved and lives have been saved. But we can always do better, and I am hopeful that this year's reauthorization will yield continued improvements in safety. I am looking forward to hearing from the witnesses today about the discussion draft before us today, as well as H.R. 5782, considered by the Transportation and Infrastructure committee last week. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
07.27.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) voted for passage of H.R. 4157, the Health Information Technology Promotion Act of 2005 which will help reduce medical errors and improve medical treatment and record-keeping. The Institute of Medicine estimates that 1.5 million Americans become ill or are injured or killed each year because of medical errors. H.R. 4157, the Health Information Technology Promotion Act, will help address this statistic by paving the way for e-prescribing systems and other advanced health information technology. Among other things, the bill does the following: Updates outdated diagnosis coding systems for the 21st century; Promotes cooperation between states and the federal government to increase the security of medical records; Provides grants to promote the use of health information technology in small physician practices and for the uninsured; and Provides for a national framework for the use of interoperable health information technology.
07.26.2006	Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for your continued leadership into the investigation of this important public health issue. Today, we continue to address the serious allegations concerning silicosis and mass tort screenings. Our past hearings have focused on doctors and screening companies, but today we turn our focus on the attorneys. It was Judge Jack who mentioned that, and I quote, “these diagnoses were about litigation rather than health care” and “were driven by neither health nor justice [but] were manufactured for money.” While the legal cases were about money, let me remind you, the plaintiff attorneys who are supposed to be looking out for the little guy, what true silicosis medical cases are about. Silicosis is a very serious occupational hazard, and according to Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine, this disease may be rapidly fatal in less than 2 years, despite the discontinuation of exposure. Even in the absence of further exposure, irregular masses form in patients and are characteristic of progressive massive fibrosis. In the late stages of the disease, ventilatory failure may develop. Harrison further states that patients with silicosis are at greater risk of acquiring tuberculosis, and even that treatment for tuberculosis is indicated in any patient with silicosis and a positive tuberculin test. Yes, counselors, silicosis is a very serious ailment. To fund mass screenings and the diagnosis of thousands of cases, without any follow up to the patients, is outrageous and unethical. As an attorney, you have a fiduciary obligation to your client, and surely this extends to ensuring that your clients diagnosed in these mass tort screening are seeking appropriate medical treatment. When you took your oath to practice law in Texas, you solemnly swore to discharge your duties to your clients to the best of your abilities. How can this not include making sure that your clients were getting treatment for such a serious disease—a disease that you paid to diagnosis for them? Mr. Chairman, I look forward to hearing the attorneys’ answers to these serious allegations. Thank you again for holding this hearing, and I yield back the remainder of my time.
07.25.2006	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for holding today’s hearing. As a physician, I understand how crucial Medicare payments are to the future of healthcare. When I practiced medicine, I remember the financial strain when providing Medicare services cost double what I was being reimbursed. I appreciate the witnesses taking time to share their views with us, and look forward to their statements. I feel strongly that the current system needs reform and to that end, I have recently introduced legislation with Congressman Norwood, Boustany, and Dave Weldon that creates a framework to fix this problem. The Medicare Physician Payment Reform and Quality Improvement Act of 2006 has four main goals: To ensure that physicians receive full and fair payment for services rendered. To create Quality Performance measures that allows patients to be informed consumers when choosing their Medicare provider. Improve Quality Improvement Organization accountability and flexibility. Fourth, to find reasonable methods of paying for these benefits. Current law calculates an annual update for physician services based on the sustained growth rate (SGR), the Medicare economic index (MEI), and an adjustment to bring the MEI update in line with the SGR target. When expenditures exceed the SGR target, the update for a future year is reduced. If expenditures fall short, the update for the future year is increased; this is an economic incentive for physicians to limit healthcare spending. Unfortunately, this system doesn’t work. Healthcare spending continues to grow, and physicians exceed their target expenditure every year. Subsequently, Medicare reimburses them less and less. This bill ends application of the SGR January 1, 2007. Instead, we propose using a single conversion factor for Medicare reimbursement: the MEI minus 1 percent. This eliminates the negative feedback loop that constantly creates a deficit in healthcare funding, and introduces a market-sensitive system. For 2007, the MEI forecasts that input prices for physician services will increase by approx 2.8 percent. We propose Medicare reimburse physicians at a 1.8 percent inflation rate (MEI minus 1 percent). Regarding quality measures, the AMA and other physician organizations have been working to create a relevant evaluation system for outpatient care. This bill does not reinvent the wheel in that regard. The provisions establishing quality performance measures are designed to build on work undertaken by the AMA, the specialty organizations and other groups. Each physician specialty organization will create their own quality measures, applicable to core clinical services, which they will submit to a consensus-building organization. Taken as a whole, these measures should provide a balanced overview of the performance of each doctor. These measures will provide patients with critical information related to quality of care and giving physicians a yard-stick to measure their own performance and make improvements. Additionally, these provisions largely follow the spirit of an agreement brokered between medicine and leaders on the Hill when finalizing negotiations on the Deficit Reduction Act. To offset the cost of these changes, we are looking at multiple options. Redirecting the stabilization fund from the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) provides approx $10 billion. Also, Medicare currently pays for indirect costs of medical education twice: directly, and by inflating payments to Medicare Advantage plans. By only paying directly, we can find money here. This bill is, of course, is just a start. We are trying to develop a product that will ultimately be satisfactory to all stakeholders, and we welcome the input of all those that are interested in a dialogue. Also, I would like to extend a particularly warm welcome to fellow North Texan, Dr. Lynne Kirk, who will be testifying on Thursday. As both a physician and educator, she brings a unique perspective to this hearing, and I appreciate the contribution of her expertise.
07.25.2006	Today, the House passed H.R. 4472, the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006. The legislation protects our nation’s children by improving sex offender registration and notification programs, enhancing law enforcement resources, preventing child exploitation, stopping child pornography and creating new criminal offense penalties protecting children from the Internet. The Adam Walsh Child Protection Act also authorizes grants and other programs to protect and help our children. “As lawmakers, it is our job to create effective laws that keep our children away from harm,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “While at times this is almost an impossible task, we have a responsibility to children and parents to diligently undertake this charge. We must not stop until we fulfill this important obligation to the most innocent of society, our children.” Highlights of H.R. 4472 Improving Sex Offender Registration · The Amie Zyla Act – expands State sex offender registration and notification programs to include certain juvenile, tribal, military, foreign and other sex offense convictions · Adopts strict requirements that States register sex offenders, keep information current, and immediately share information with other jurisdictions as to where a sex offender resides, works and is employed · Adds important information to sex offender registries, mandates collection of DNA from sex offenders, and increases frequency of in-person verification of sex offender information · Increases the time period for sex offenders to remain on the registry and requires States to maintain an Internet site with sex offender information · Authorizes the creation of the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website · Expands public notification requirements for sex offender registration and changes in registration to include law enforcement, each jurisdiction in which a sex offender works, lives or attends school, background check agencies, social service agencies, volunteer organizations and any other entity that request notification · Authorizes Sex Offender Management Assistance Grants to States and local governments to implement the new sex offender requirement · Authorizes a pilot program for electronic monitoring of sex offenders Criminal Enhancements and Law Enforcement Resources to Protect Children · Creates new Federal felony crime for sex offenders who fail to register or update their registration information, with a possible punishment of 10 years in jail, and a mandatory minimum of five years if the sex offender commits a crime of violence while not registered · Authorizes United States Marshals Service to apprehend “missing” (unregistered) sex offenders · Creates new Office within the Justice Department to monitor and track sex offenders and authorizes Project Safe Childhood program · Prohibits Internet sales of date rape drugs · Adopts stiff penalties for killing or violent attacks of children – death penalty for murder and mandatory minimum of 25 years for kidnapping or maiming a child, and a mandatory minimum of 10 years for causing serious bodily injury to a child or using a weapon to attack a child · Establishes tough 30-year mandatory minimum penalties for having sex with a child under 12 or sexually assaulting a child between 13 and 17 · Increases mandatory minimum penalties for coercing or enticing a child to have sex, transporting a child to engage in criminal sexual activity, sexual exploitation of a child, and sex trafficking of children · Eliminates statute of limitations for sexual offenses against a child · Adds abuse and neglect of Indian children as a federal criminal offense · Reforms federal civil commitment laws and authorizes grants to States to implement civil commitment programs to protect against dangerous sex offenders · Amends immigration laws to make failure to register a deportable offense and bars convicted sex offenders from having family-based petitions approved Protecting Children from the Internet - The INTERNET Safety Act · Creates new criminal offense against child exploitation enterprises and punishes members of enterprise with mandatory minimum of 20 years incarceration · Adopts a 10-year consecutive mandatory penalty for any sex offender who commits a sexual offense, crime of violence or other specified offense against a child · Creates new criminal penalty for embedding words or images in source code of a website to deceive children into viewing obscene material · Authorizes additional prosecutors and computer forensics to prosecute child exploitation and child sex abuse cases · Enacts Masha’s Law to expand civil remedies for sexual offenses against children Preventing Child Exploitation and Stopping Child Pornography · Improves record-keeping requirements and inspection regimes to any person or entity that produces pornography to ensure that children are not used or exploited in such depictions · Authorizes civil and criminal asset forfeiture in child exploitation and obscenity cases · Prohibits the production of obscene materials as well as the transportation, distribution and sale Grants and Other Programs to Protect and Help Children · Authorizes grants to combat sexual abuse of children, crime prevention campaign, fingerprinting of children, and assistance in prosecution of sexual crime cases using DNA evidence · Authorizes grants for Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network, and children’s online safety awareness and safety programs · Creates national registry of substantiated cases of child abuse · Directs GAO to study use of drivers’ license registration process as an additional sex offender registration requirement.
07.25.2006	Last night, Congressman Michael C. Burgess hosted his second telephone town hall, commonly referred to as a “Tele-Town Hall.” It is the latest and greatest of new technology that a Member of Congress can utilize to communicate more effectively with constituents. “It is a fireside chat for the 21st Century,” said Congressman Burgess. “The process provides direct interaction between me and my constituents. I hear straight from them about the issues that are most important to them.” Monday’s call was the second Tele-Town Hall hosted by Congressman Michael Burgess. The July 24th call reached out to a wide range of towns in Denton County. Constituents from Aubrey, Denton, Highland Village, Ponder, Copper Canyon, Flower Mound and many other towns had the opportunity to ask Congressman Burgess a question. Over 20,000 constituents received a message from the Congressman with over 7,000 people participating during the call. Designed to reach out to constituents who may not be able to attend a physical town hall, the new Tele-Town Hall has met with great success from families with children, senior citizens and others who found it convenient to be on the hour long call in the evenings just after dinner. “Communicating with constituents is my number one priority,” said Congressman Burgess. “Since January of this year, my office has responded to over 26,000 letters from constituents, but these new Tele-Town Halls give people the option of talking to me from the comfort of their own home.” How it works A phone list, gathered from the Texas Secretary of State’s voter registration list, is complied and added to a phone bank. The phone bank automatically dials the constituents as Congressman Burgess prepares to receive calls. As people select to enter into the Tele-Town Hall, Congressman Burgess discusses the basics of the program, provides general information about his office and gives a brief update on recent news and legislative action in Congress. When most callers have opted into the town hall, Congressman Burgess begins taking caller’s question. Each Tele-Town Hall lasts approximately one hour in length as of Members of Congress utilize the same service. While not all caller’s who have a question are able to speak during the allotted time, a voicemail system is in place so anyone can leave their individual message for the Congressman and will receive an answer in reply.
07.24.2006	Today Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), a member of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, introduced legislation that would improve Medicare patient access and establish a market-based system for paying doctors. Over the past two decades, doctors have received inadequate inflation adjustments, pay cuts and freezes. This trend has led to a crisis situation in health care circles where doctors and patients alike are faced with a dilemma. Patients are finding that few doctors can afford to take Medicare patients, leaving more of those who need help in search of assistance. For doctors, they are facing staggering Medicare costs without equitable reimbursement. In effect, physicians and patients are unable to end the cycle due to the structure of the current government reimbursement program. “The primary focus of my bill is to ensure that Medicare patients have better access to the health care they so desperately need,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “When I was a practicing physician, I remember the financial strain when the cost of providing Medicare services was substantially higher than what I was being reimbursed.” Without intervention, payment for physician services will be cut by more than 4.6% next year. Current law provides a specific formula for calculating an annual update to the conversion factor of relative value for physician services into a dollar amount. The factors that are calculated include: (1) the sustainable growth rate (SGR), a target for Medicare spending growth for physicians' services; (2) the Medicare economic index (MEI), which measures inflation in the inputs needed to produce physicians' services; and (3) an adjustment to bring the MEI update in line with the SGR target. The fee schedule update reflects success or failure in meeting the SGR target. If expenditures exceed the target, the update for a future year is reduced. If expenditures fall short, the update for the future year is increased; this is an economic incentive for physicians to limit healthcare spending. “Unfortunately, this system doesn’t work,” said Congressman Burgess. “Healthcare spending continues to grow yearly, and physicians exceed their target expenditure every year. Subsequently, Medicare reimburses them less and less.” Dr. Burgess’ bill ends application of the SGR January 1, 2007 and institutes a single conversion factor for 2007 and succeeding years: the MEI minus 1%. This eliminates the negative feedback loop that constantly creates a deficit in healthcare funding, and introduces a market-sensitive system. For 2007, the MEI forecasts that input prices for physician services will increase by approx 2.8%. A second key portion of the bill is devoted to shifting toward a more market-based system of quality of performance reporting. The bill establishes a system of Quality Measures so physicians can voluntarily report data to Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services. This information would be invaluable to a patient looking to find a Medicare provider. Patients could assess the level of quality their perspective doctors are achieving and decide which doctor they would prefer. The bill would establish, by law, a system of Quality Measures to be developed in collaboration with specialty organizations for core services. “This feature of the legislation will bring more transparency to the system and will undoubtedly prove that market-based comparisons will thrive in the health care arena,” said Dr. Michael Burgess. “If a patient sees that short waiting times equates to perhaps a $10 increase in their bill, they may decide that the money is worth it. This system gives the consumer more access and more control.” A third portion of the bill involves the use of imaging services. In recent Energy and Commerce committee hearings, there have been discussions concerning the rising cost of defensive medicine and how imaging services are utilized and if their substantial costs are overused. Rep. Burgess’ bill will bring a one year delay in Medicare adjustments in payments for imaging services. In the meantime, the Department of Health and Human Resources will contract with the Institute of Medicine to study utilization and appropriateness of imaging services. The study will particularly examine the role of defensive medicine and whether or not imaging actually saves money by limiting the need for subsequent treatment. The results of this study will be reported no later than April 1, 2007. “Every portion of this bill is to improve Medicare for patients and providers,” said Congressman Michael Burgess.
07.21.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) hosted Sergeant First Class James Greig and his family for an Oath of Reenlistment Ceremony held in the United States Capitol. Sergeant First Class James Greig of Keller, Texas, joined the U.S. Army nine and a half years ago and completed training in Texas. Over the past decade, Sergeant Greig has been stationed in Germany; Bosnia; Kosovo; Monterey, California and currently is stationed in Fort Meade, Maryland. A signals intelligence analyst, Sergeant Greig also made the critical decision to become a Chinese linguist learning the language after he turned thirty – a language considered the most difficult to learn and one of the most important for our intelligence community. “I was honored to host the re-enlistment oath in the U.S. Capitol for Sergeant First Class James Greig,” said Congressman Burgess. “He represents what is best about our service men and women – their dedication to this country and their families. He is a remarkable young man, and I know his efforts and bravery make this country safe.” This was the last opportunity for Sergeant James Greig to re-enlist before he begins warrant candidate school to become and officer. His re-enlistment will last roughly six years. Officiating the ceremony was U.S. Army Captain Ed Brinkley, First Sergeant Toni Santoro, and Sergeant James Greig’s family; wife, Corina and his mother, Amy and step-father George Peterson. Congressman Michael Burgess hosted the family and ceremony in the Rayburn Room of the U.S. Capitol and provided a tour of the Floor of the House of Representatives and the Speaker of the House’s Office.
07.19.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) was one of twenty six Members of the House of Representatives presented with the illustrious “House Award” by The Century Council for his dedication to fighting drunk driving and underage drinking. Congressman Burgess taped a public service announcement (PSA) alongside The Century Council Chairman Susan Molinari about the dangers of drinking and driving. The PSA aired throughout North Texas on various radio stations during the holidays of 2005 and into the spring of 2006. The PSA is also displayed in video format on his congressional website. “Although the message about the dangers of drinking and driving is not new, the need to reinforce the message never ceases,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. In May, Representative Burgess was asked to speak at Aubrey High School where there was a rally to against drunk driving. At the event, several guest speakers addressed the students including Dr. Burgess, and son and father team Brandon and Tony Silveria. Brandon shared his story about an alcohol-related crash he had at age 17 just before his high school prom. His father Tony spoke to students about the importance of “making the right choice” about alcohol – and if students are under the age of 21 – the only responsible decision is not to drink. During the Aubrey High School event, Congressman Burgess was able to thank Ricky Whitfield, a senior, for his inspiring video to warn kids of the dangers of drunk driving on prom night. Ricky, a modern-day renaissance man, lettered in every major sport for the Chaparrals and was dedicated to community service. On the request of the Aubrey Police Department, Ricky prepared the moving video. Later, Congressman Burgess would officially recognize Ricky’s work in the Congressional Record in Washington. “This award is truly like no other I have received,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “When someone chooses to drink and drive, they are risking the lives of many. If I was able to help keep one person from underage drinking or another from driving drunk, that is the reward itself.”
07.19.2006	Statement on Israel-Lebanon Under the leadership of Hezbollah, an Islamic military political party whose platform has consistently called for the destruction of Israel, Lebanon has been become an arena for its two extremist neighbors Syria and Iran to incite a war. The kidnapping of two Israeli soldiers was the tipping point. Remember it is Hezbollah, not Israel, who has declared all out war. Israel has the right to defend itself by all means necessary. As a global power, the United States is right to voice its condemnation of these aggressive acts of Hezbollah and to champion the cause of Israel. America has an obligation to defend itself and its allies. While this battle ensues, the Administration and both Houses of Congress will work together first, to evacuate our citizens to a place of safety and second, to seek an end to this mantra of destruction and hatred that continues to act as a catalyst to war in the Middle East.
07.18.2006	I plan to vote for H.J.Res.88, The Marriage Protection Amendment and I am also a cosponsor of this legislation. I believe that the institution of marriage is a legal and moral bond between a man and a woman, and I will oppose any efforts on the federal level to legally recognize same-sex marriages during my tenure as a United States Congressman. Texas, along with 22 other States, already has a Constitutional Amendment that prohibits same-sex marriage.
07.18.2006	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess Medical Imaging Hearing July 18, 2006 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for holding this hearing today. Medical imaging is an extremely important new technology, but an old one at the same time. In my practice, the use of ultrasound is the standard of practice in obstetrics. But new modalities allow doctors to identify and diagnose disease in a manner that was un-thought of two years ago. I hope that this hearing today will help us understand where medical imaging technology is assistive, and where there may be waste in the Medicare program. I’m very pleased that we have with us today Dr. Douglas Laube, President of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. I’ve been a Fellow of the College for many years and know very well the fine work of this specialty organization. Dr. Laube chairs the Department of Ob-Gyn at the University of Wisconsin Medical School in Madison and he also holds a medical education degree from the University of Iowa. Dr. Laube has been teaching and training ob-gyns since the mid-70s. He’s chaired the Council on Residency Education for Ob-Gyns, as well as the National Board of Medical Examiners. Dr. Laube has received numerous distinguished teaching awards and other professional distinctions. His lifelong dedication to teaching and training makes him particularly well-suited for this hearing, with its focus on proposals to help us assure quality clinical care in imaging. Welcome, Dr. Laube. I look forward to your thoughts.
07.18.2006	There are several forms of stem cell research being conducted in the United States today. President Bush is the first president to authorize federal dollars for stem cell research. In fact, every year, the amount of funds devoted to stem cell research has increased and there has been no circumstance where the federal government has prohibited private stem cell research. President Bush’s policy only limits funding for embryonic stem cell research. This is nascent research, and the President is right to enforce policy boundaries that are responsible and ethical. The facts are clear – to date, embryonic stem cell research has brought no bona fide medical treatments. Honestly one of the most important aspects of this debate, one which causes me great concern, is that the people who are truly suffering are being promised miraculous treatments through embryonic stem cell research when the reality of what is possible is if far more limited. Unfortunately, these misleading promises by the proponents of embryonic stem cell research have not been substantiated by any concrete evidence of an achievable therapeutic intervention today or in the foreseeable future. In contrast, I know there is evidence that cord blood or adult stem cells can bring significant advances in working towards a cure for many diseases. These two stem cells do not endanger a life and therefore their research should be supported. Yes, we should support ground breaking technology, but not at the risk of sacrificing innocent life. I believe human life begins at conception, and that is exactly where embryonic stem cell research takes its place. Science moves faster than government. It is part of my commitment, both as a doctor and a Member of Congress to continue to educated myself on this topic as progress continues. CLICK HERE TO WATCH VIDEO: President George W. Bush Speech on Stem Cell Research
07.13.2006	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, MD Innovative Solutions to Medical Liability House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health July 13, 2006 I want to thank the chairman for holding what I think will be a very constructive hearing today. I think that we all recognize that there is a problem with our tort liability system whether you look at it from the perspective of patient compensation, the ability of physicians to practice medicine in a non-coercive environment, or the lack of quality improvement and transparency when actual errors occur. I agree with the chairman that there’s not just one magic solution to address all these problems and it may be time to review the strategy of the past and approach this issue anew. I can speak with some authority about one approach that has worked in Texas that has shown real results. By creating an overall cap on non-economic damages of $750,000 and other modifications to the state tort system, leaders of the State of Texas were able to stop the hemorrhaging of doctors and insurers from leaving the state in droves. I think it helps to describe the environment Texas medicine operated in prior to the enactment of the landmark medical liability. From 1989 to 1999, the average non-economic award quadrupled from $318,000 to $1.3 million. Hospitals saw their liability costs go up as much as 50 percent a year. But since the passage of Proposition 12, Texas has added 3,000 physicians. The ranks of medical specialists are growing. Medically underserved communities are posting impressive gains. Doctors are once again taking more complex cases. Texas doesn’t hold a monopoly on the best approach to solve this problem though, so I am looking forward to discussing other options with the panel before us.
07.13.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) fulfilled his promise to constituents that he would vote in favor of the Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006 (H.R. 9), the bill that would renew and restore the expiring provisions of the Voting Rights Act. “The Voting Rights Act has benefited our country for over 40 years,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “I am honored to have voted for the passage because I inherently believe the bill reaffirms America’s commitment to the fundamental right to vote for all citizens.” The 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution, which became a part of the Constitution on July 28, 1868, accorded African American men the right to vote (African American women were given the right to vote by the 19th Amendment). Congress passed the Voting Rights Act in 1965 (Public Law 89-110) in response to widespread evidence of disfranchisement of black citizens in several southern states. The Voting Rights Act of 1965 protects citizens' right to vote primarily by forbidding covered states from using tests of any kind to determine eligibility to vote, by requiring these states to obtain federal approval before enacting any election laws, and by assigning federal officials to monitor the registration process in certain localities. The VRA has been amended several times. In 1970, it was amended to extend its coverage to the entire country instead of just southern states. In 1975, Congress expanded it to protect the voting rights of ethnic groups whose language is other than English and permanently banned all literacy tests for voter registrants nationwide. An amendment in 1982 enabled courts to judge an election law to be discriminatory without proof that it was intended to be so, if the law resulted in abridging minority voting power. Additional amendments in 1982 provided some administrative provisions of the act (pre-clearance of election-law changes and assignment of examiners and election observers) would expire in 2007. “It is important to note that the right of African Americans to vote is guaranteed by the United States Constitution - regardless of whether or not the Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, is extended,” said Congressman Burgess. “I support the concepts and principles set forth in the Voting Rights Act, and I am pleased it has successfully passed the House of Representatives.” The full title of the bill is Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006. Technically, the bill amends the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to revise requirements for the use of election examiners and observers; declaratory judgment on the issue of voting qualifications or standards intended to diminish the ability of U.S. citizens to elect preferred candidates; and award of attorney fees in enforcement proceedings to include expert fees and other reasonable costs of litigation. The Voting Rights Act extends bilingual election requirements through August 5, 2032. It revises the requirements for determining states and political subdivisions covered by them to require use of 2010 American Community Survey census data. In addition, it amends the Voting Rights Act of 1965 with respect to the prohibition against the use of tests or devices to deny the right to vote in any federal, state, or local election, and it extends both the prohibition and the date for mandatory congressional reconsideration of it.
07.12.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Reforming the Wright Amendment July 12, 2006 Chairman Mica, Ranking Member Costello, distinguished Members, thank you for holding this important hearing that directly impacts North Texas and the 26th District of Texas. Along with Congressman Marchant, I represent a portion of DFW International Airport, and this issue greatly affects tens of thousands of my constituents who rely on the vitality of this airport. As it has been stated, for almost thirty years, the Wright Amendment has protected a mutual agreement between the City of Fort Worth and the City of Dallas. I believe in the integrity of this agreement, and it has enabled DFW Airport to become the economic engine of North Texas. If we change the terms of the old agreement, the new law must protect the lives and livelihoods of the tens of thousands of people who depend on DFW Airport. Mayor Moncrief and Mayor Miller have each worked diligently, and along with the major stakeholders, I believe that they have entered into an historic agreement that will protect my constituents and allow for better service at Love Field. I sincerely thank the Mayors for their commitment and dedication to this delicate and complicated task. I understand that some of the surrounding cities in North Texas are concerned with clause 6 of the joint agreement, which states that “to the extent any other airport within an eighty-mile radius seeks to initiate scheduled commercial passenger service within this eight-year period, both cities agree to work diligently to bring that service to DFW, or if that effort fails, then to airports owned by the Cities of Dallas and/or Fort Worth.” While I do represent a portion of DFW Airport, I also represent Alliance Airport and Denton Municipal Airport. I believe that the surrounding airports interests must be protected. However, I am pleased that the Mayors made a distinction between commercial passenger service and cargo service. Additionally, most unscheduled charter service is not included in the definition of commercial passenger service, thus surrounding airports will be able to continue their cargo and most charter service without any possible disturbance by the Cities of Fort Worth and Dallas. This is a very important service, and I believe that we should take all necessary measures to protect communities like the City of Denton in providing such service. It should also be noted that this agreement only binds the Cities of Fort Worth and Dallas, American Airlines, and Southwest Airlines. It does not bind the neighboring cities within the eighty miles; therefore, their autonomy should remain unquestioned. I would oppose any measure, whether State or Federal, that would obligate other parties to this agreement. If other parties are subsequently bound by this agreement or any form of legislation, this would be contrary to the intent of the agreement. It is my hope that any proposed legislation remains silent on the issue of preemption. The Dallas Aviation Department has revealed that the department had a $20 million budget shortfall in its two most recent fiscal years combined. While the aviation department has increased their landing fees at Love Field from 35 cents to 55 cents, the Dallas taxpayers are still subsidizing this airport. According to the Dallas Morning News, the landing fee increase will bring in $952,000 to the city annually. This obviously falls short of offsetting the budget deficit. Similarly situated mid-size airports charge an average of $1.40 for landing fees, and I do not understand why the City of Dallas has been reluctant to charge a more fiscally responsible landing fee. While clause 5 of the new joint agreement does provide that landing fees will be adjusted to cover much needed facility and safety improvements, it is my hope that the City of Dallas will rise to the challenge and dramatically increase the fees to a more appropriate level. As with any older facility, modifications need to be made to ensure the safety of the entire area. An increase in landing fees could provide for additional safety improvements that would provide for the wellbeing of those in and around Love Field, including runway expansions and barriers. The citizens of Dallas deserve these safety measures as well as more transparency in the financial records at Love Field. Since the runways at DFW Airport and Love Field are only 8 miles apart, any action that we take on the Wright Amendment must be conscientious of all safety issues for both airports. I have been informed by air traffic controllers at DFW that when directing traffic for the two airports, the air traffic controllers view Love Field as just another runway. This would change drastically if a gate limit was not imposed, since traffic could increase considerably. I feel that the 20 gate limit at Love Field helps to protect our aviation industry and the public, while at the same time not unduly restricting commerce; therefore, I fully support this effort. While I remain supportive of the agreement, as a Representative of Fort Worth, it would have been my desire to see a more equitable DFW Airport Board of Directors. While the Cities of Fort Worth and Dallas jointly own the airport, seven members represent the City of Dallas while only four represent the City of Fort Worth. The City of Fort Worth’s population is growing rapidly, and it is my hope that the issue of board membership will be reviewed in the near future. While I would have preferred for the Wright Amendment to stay intact, I have always believed that the fate of the Wright Amendment should be decided locally between the cities since they are the entities that actually own DFW Airport. If the Wright Amendment is to be modified, it should first come from the local level and not from Washington. Just a few short months ago, the North Texas Delegation charged Mayor Moncrief and Mayor Miller with this difficult task. Considering the history between the two cities, some felt it was an impossible task. However, Mayor Moncrief and Mayor Miller rose to the challenge, and we now have before us a local agreement signed by all major stakeholders. It is now our opportunity to rise to the challenge and, if possible, pass legislation which reflects this agreement. If it is impossible to enact legislation that reflects this agreement, then the Wright Amendment should stay firmly intact. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for having this important hearing, and I offer my assistance to you and the committee regarding all aviation issues that may affect North Texas.
07.12.2006	Opening Statement for the Honorable Michael C. Burgess, M.D.Energy and Commerce Committee Mark-UpPollutants Treat; Review of Foreign Investments; Antifreeze BitteringJuly 12, 2006 Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you for holding today's mark-up. It is rare that this body has the opportunity to consider legislation implementing an environmental treaty that protects the environment, human health, AND the U.S. economy all at once. As an OB/GYN, I know better than most the health threat caused by bioaccumulation of toxic substances. Who is more significantly impacted than the young of any species? While I know that the scope of this treaty does not include FDA-regulated chemicals, and strictly deals with industrial chemicals, it is important to acknowledge that industrial chemicals can have a significant impact on human health. Last week I had the opportunity to meet with World Health Organization officials in Geneva. When asked what they viewed as a potential emerging threat, I was surprised to hear that one of their concerns was yellow fever. Apparently there are very few people being vaccinated against the yellow fever these days, which raises concerns that the yellow fever could come back. The yellow fever is transmitted by a type of mosquito called the a. SGSGSGD. Still other types of mosquitoes carry Malaria and Dengue Fever and a myriad of other diseases across borders and across continents. In fact, our August District Work period has roots in the fact that it was downright unsafe to be in the District of Columbia during the August mosquito season. In the past, this threat was controlled by the use of DDT, a mosquito pesticide, which is now banned in the United States and listed as a Persistent Organic Pollutant under the POPs Convention. We are fortunate in that we now have new, safer, chemicals to control the mosquito population should yellow fever or another mosquito-borne disease threaten our public health. But this is an example of a way that this treaty could potentially limit our options when responding to a public health crisis. I was pleased to learn that, under both the treaty and the implementing legislation before us today, the U.S. reserves the right to respond to changing situations or information that threaten domestic public health. I would like to thank the Chairman for agreeing to include report language that makes it clear that the EPA has the authority to amend any regulation put in place under this statute restricting the use of a POP in the event that U.S. public health is severely threatened by this restriction. Mr. Chairman, before I yield back, I would like to just raise one further issue for the record. The sanctions for non-compliance with the Treaty have not yet been established and it concerns me that the United States is entering into the agreement without knowing these penalties. That said, in light of the fact that they have not yet been established, I believe that the United States needs to be at the table when these are discussed. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
07.07.2006	General Casey 7 Jul 2006 Just prior to boarding a C-130 to depart from Iraq, we had a meeting with General Casey at Baghdad International Airport. General Casey is the commander of the multinational force in the country of Iraq General Casey stated that the security environment in Iraq was complex. He observed that the conflict was shifting from a pure insurgency to a conflict about how to divide power and resources. He stated this was more difficult to resolve because the groups involved until more recently had been under the dictatorial oppression and had a greater than 35 year history of distrust with one another. The General stated that the formation of the unity government was clearly the big news story of the past month, and his opinion was that it was worth the wait. All leaders had agreed upon a 35 point program and had devised the working rules for the convening of ministers. He felt it was significant that a two thirds vote was required to resolve any disputes that arose from issues with the 35 point program. Regarding the continued unrest and insurgency that prevents the forward movement of civil society, General Casey cited four elements involved. The first was the Shi'ia militia, an illegally armed group. He stated that this was a rule of law issue and would require a political as well as a military or law enforcement solution. The second was to the continued influence of Al Qaeda, a group he said was severely wounded and lashing out at any target available. They are and have been trying to foment Shi’ia reaction to violence. Thirdly, he cited resistance from the Sunni insurgency. He regarded this as weaker than the previous year. To some extent, they have recalibrated their strategic options. For example, the United States looks better than a takeover by Iran. This is an ongoing dialogue which will likely take some time to develop. Forth and finally are the Iranians. Iran has made a strategic decision to interfere in the reestablishment of civil society in Iraq. Unquestionably, training, weapons, as well as funding are coming from there. The General felt that different strategies were necessary to deal with war against all four groups. Just as we had heard earlier in the briefing, he reaffirmed that the Iraqi security force development had shown very good progress. He felt that the Army and Baghdad were doing very well. He felt the local police were also becoming more capable and cited the several training units in the country for this improvement. The General felt that by the end of the year the whole Iraqi army would be in the lead around the country with the United States embedded and providing mandatory. The local police were about six to 12 months behind the Army. In response to questions about security, he stated that security cannot be measured by the level of violence. If you allow violence to be a gauge, then this allows the enemy to set a timetable. He stated there were no shortages of arms hidden throughout the country. His goal is to reduce violence to the point that it was manageable by the Iraqi police and the Iraqi security force backed by occasional use of US forces. In regards to the amount of weapons hidden within the country, the General said that they were still finding 250 caches of weapons per month. Finally, the General commented that the Euphrates Valley was coming under greater and greater control. As long as people feel safe, the insurgents have nothing to offer. The proof of that concept is that they are beginning to see rejection of Al Qaeda by the people who live in the area. At one time, Al Qaeda was seen as an organization with the ability to offer security; now it is seen as an organization that only offers continued unrest and potential damage.
07.07.2006	General Peter Chiarelli 7 Jul 2006 Late in the afternoon, we were met at the Al Faw Palace by General Peter Chiarelli. The General has recently been tasked with investigating the delay for the initiation of the investigation of Al Haditha. He stressed his role there was investigational on the administrative aspect of the reportage, and the actual charges would be brought through the military justice system. Because the investigation was ongoing, there was some hesitancy to discuss specifics, however he did imply that his report was not far from concluded, and that he would release it as soon as the report was finished. General Chiarelli is in significant real-time association with the Iraqi Security Force and discussed its development with us. He stated it was the only real national institution that has been reconstituted in Iraq. From a tactical standpoint he said they were excellent. He noted that they were taking a larger and larger share of the actual combat operations, and consequently the combat casualties as well. At present there are still embedded American advisers with several of the units, but he stated they were not far away from being fully functional on their own. The recent naming of a Minister of the Interior, he stated, was a critical aspect to the Iraqis regaining control over their own government. The police force will be under the control of the Minister of the Interior. While their ongoing efforts to train street level policeman and training teams are having excellent results, they are still four or five months away from becoming as functional as the Iraqi security Force. The border police are slightly behind that trajectory. Another point of concerned is the development of logistical support for the Iraqi Security Force. The key is still the government ministerial capacity, and is now upon the government to perform. He noted that the government has a four-year term and the current elected government must show an ability to manage the country well within that time frame. The General was not as optimistic about the Ministry of Health, but stated this was not a problem that was unique to Iraq. He stated that typically when the government is being created or rebuilt the Ministry of Health is one of the last to become fully functional. He said this is a traditional difficulty around the world and Iraq was no different in this regard. The General was much more optimistic about the recently named Minister of Oil. He said that within the past two weeks, production had surged and he anticipated this to not only continue but rapidly increase as well. Clearly the country would benefit from the increased production. The General stated that there were 195 state-owned businesses within the country. This number was too large and many of these would be excellent candidates for privatization. The current government run system is not functioning efficiently. Unfortunately at present, the country lacks the legal infrastructure to allow privatization and this has been one of the main barriers to improvements in the country's civil position. As a consequence unemployment is still a significant problem hovering around 70%. This coupled with outside interference from countries such as Iran and Syria compound the problem is locally. Still there were some encouraging signs and the General noted that recent successes in Ramadi were significant if not newsworthy. No real attention has been made in the press to the expulsion of certain insurgents from that town. This was every bit as effective as the success in Falluja 18 months ago. It was just done with much less expense of kinetic energy. In the second instance they displaced the insurgents from the central part of the city and have allowed reestablishment of the rule of law to diffuse outward.
07.05.2006	5 Jul 2006 10th Combat Surgical Hospital This briefing was given by Commander Doyle of the 10th combat surgical hospital in Baghdad, Iraq. At the outset of the briefing, Commander Doyle outlines the mission of his units: saving lives and relieving suffering. They have been offering combat support since November 2005 in the form of a forward surgical unit team and a team offering combat stress control. He felt they were offering world-class medical care to everyone who entered their doors good or bad wounded or disease and treated them accordingly. They were geared toward prevention of death and the restoration of function. He gave a brief history of the facility where his unit was staged. It was known as the Ibn Sina Hospital, an institution that was begun as a private medical facility in the mid-1960s. It was originally designed to offer care in surgery and obstetrics. It was annexed by Saddam Hussain and functioned primarily as a hospital for high-ranking party officials. It now functions as a physical home for the 10th combat surgical facility, a facility which recently gained some notoriety as the Baghdad ER in the television documentary. Altogether, they have five operating Rams and 24 ICU bands with 50 bands designated as intermediate care. They have an outpatient department sees 2000 patients per month. And perhaps the largest tribute to their success is a recent statistic that shows a 94% survival for all emergency room visits including those injured on the battlefield or by insurgent terrorism. A breakdown of the statistics shows that 21% of those treated at the hospital are United States forces. 26% are members of the Iraqi security force and 35% are Iraqi civilians. Williams stated that improvised explosive devices and gunshot wounds are the two main reasons for care in their facility. Commander Doyle again stressed that 94% of those admitted to the hospital survive. This includes in the past year 26,000 outpatient visits, 5000 ER admissions, 2800 hospital admissions, 2400 downstream transfers and over 5400 and written prescriptions. He also noted that they have one of the only platelet collection facilities in the country. In addition to the above, they provide host nation training for Iraqi physicians and nurses. Part of their mission is to build the medical infrastructure that will one day be taken over by the medical care in that country. In addition to training physicians and nurses, they also have provided advanced training for the management of burns, one of the few such facilities again in the country. He cited among the successes during his six months there, the birth of the "democracy baby" in December 2005. This was a child delivered by cesarean section during the vote to ratify the Iraqi constitution. Additionally during the commander’s tenure, 127 members of his units have reenlisted. There have been significant facility improvements and he cited significant and sustained support from the home front for which he was very appreciative.
07.03.2006	World Health Organization 3 Jul 2006 An overview of the Strategic Health Operations Center was presented by Dr. Michael Ryan who is the director of the epidemic and pandemic alert and response team. Dr. Ryan described a global response network which was comprised of the World Health Organization, the Centers for Disease Control, and the Department of Health and Human Services. The majority of the strategic support comes from the Department of Health and Human Services, but there is a deep and enduring relationship between United States government and the World Health Organization. The presence of epidemics to some degree shape history more than war or conflicts. Dr. Ryan alluded to quarantining ships off of the coast of Venice for 40 days to prevent diseases of the orient from being imported with the ship’s crews. To some extent, this is the same situation that exists today with globalization, only on a much larger scale. From a disease perspective, globalization has created a risk to be managed and at present, not all systems are interconnected. Over the last five years, some 1100 plus health-related events have functioned as "stress tests" for the world's health-care systems. This time compressed series has tested all weaknesses of the various systems and has shown that even small epidemics can strain the world's health systems. Dr. Ryan gave the example of the reoccurrence of yellow fever in parts of Africa, largely the result of low vaccination rates in younger generations of citizens. There is also the ever present threat posed by an accidental or purposeful release of an infectious agent from a lab or institution. That possibility, coupled with the continuing emergence of new infections and infectious risk, keeps his organization constantly challenged. As Dr. Ryan pointed out rather succinctly, "bugs are better adapters that we are." He stated that the days are past where there is a one organization-one illness relationship. It is now the microbial world versus the vulnerable human world. No single institution has all of the capacity needed for the degree of constant vigilance now required. A broad-based approach is now more critical than ever. Controlling outbreaks at their source has become mission-critical. This is to prevent having to deal with the phenomena that occurred after the introduction of a disease into society. Because the World Health Organization, which represents 194 member states, is such a trusted institution worldwide, it lends itself to participating in this role. In this current transitional mandate, cooperating countries have agreed to come together with epidemic detection and share information throughout the organization with or without the permission of their member states. This decentralized structure will serve the nations of the World Health Organization in today's changed environment much more effectively. Their experience with this operationally base system allows for public health capacity to be delivered responsively in the field. When a new situation arises, it takes an average of two weeks for the logistics and technical support to be delivered on the ground. The key realization of the mission is to bring natural partnerships together, and not to build a "global CDC". The result of the desire for a flexible response force has resulted in the creation of what is now known as the Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network. This requires intelligence, verification of the intelligence, assessment of the threat, and response to that threat. As was shared with us during the briefing, this is an active daily process where threats from around the world are collected, assessed, and addressed on real-time basis. This occurs with or without the consent of the host country. This global technical partnership which is coordinated by the World Health Organization (not controlled by the World Health Organization) has 24 hour a day, seven day a week access to some of the best minds in the world. The result is more and more capability to meet the goal of containing new diseases wherever they occur. Avian Flu The avian flu creates a new level of demand. The response to this threat is not reproducible or sustainable without a commitment from the various member organizations. Over the last decade, the first five years was devoted to establishing the informational network necessary, and the last five years has been devoted to professional development within the organization. Individual countries realize now that they cannot handle the outbreaks by themselves. The various health ministries around the world now realize that they must become much more transparent, and much less circumspect of their neighbors. During the most recent outbreak in Indonesia, all samples collected from ill individuals were split and shared. All data derived from the samples has likewise been shared. A new difficulty has been that some outbreaks are managed by a country’s Minister of Health and some are managed by the Minister of Agriculture. The nature of these ministries is often conflicted. It is sometimes hard to separate the regulatory function from the promotional function which is the nature of the Ministry of Agriculture. The discussion now was taken over by Dr. Keiji Fukuda who is the coordinator for the Global Influence Program of the department and the Pandemic Alert and Response Team. Dr. Fukuda pointed out how Avian Flu was essentially a new infectious disease with the potential for a global reach. Currently it represents a significant agricultural threat in a large part of the world, but it also raises issues related to a possible pandemic to the extend that it is significantly beyond the concerns of the countries affected. Dr. Fukuda pointed out that in today's informational age, rumors and media coverage vastly precede the actual illness. Because response to the potential pandemic has been based on so-called "weakest link concepts," the focus by the media can quickly stretch global resources to the limit on both the outbreak and the containment fronts. Dr. Fukuda stressed again that this is primarily an infection in poultry and while wild birds are important, the domestic poultry population is much more threatened. Cats and other felines can be infected but do not appear to propagate the infection. The situation is complex and evolving. The disease appears to be endemic and uncontrolled in some countries. Other countries are not as severely affected but certainly their status is uncertain at this time. What is clear however is that there is a lot of room for this virus to spread. Currently for a human to become infected there has to be direct exposure to infected poultry or very close contact with an ill person. There also appears to be a seasonal peak of viral infections of this type for the last years. Overall, what is also apparent is that the number of involved countries appears to the increasing. What is not in question is the overall lethality of the virus and its ability for worldwide distribution. What has become clear from other endemics is that animal influenza viruses can adapt and change genetically to infect humans. Study of pandemics over the course of human history shows that when one pandemic ends another becomes possible. It has been almost 40 years since the last pandemic in the United States, the year 1968. While facile human to human transmission has not been seen, there is plenty of reason to be concerned. Addressing a question that the virus appears to infect those younger than the age of 40 with particular lethality, Dr. Fukuda pointed out that the life expectancy in the 20th century has been increasing and it may not the reasonable to relate past pandemics i.e. the Spanish flu and its particular lethality for young individuals to the current situation. Currently the World Health Organization is putting primary focus on countries that are perceived to be the weakest link and are coordinating assistance to these areas. While there are many areas where direct assistance can be applied, the establishment of training personnel locally and more rapid vaccine development are two of the most prominent. Additionally, efforts to reduce human exposure employing early warning systems, intensifying efforts for rapid containment, and building up the country’s capacity are secondary goals. No single country can control all of the aspects of the illness and no single country can protect itself by itself. Both doctos concluded that the United States has been a leader in the world on this illness and will likely continue to do so in the foreseeable future. We will benefit in the long-term from building national capacity for disease management and vaccine production within our country and at the same time achieve the goal of protecting our own population. The role of the World Health Organization will be to provide access to specimens data and to curb some of the vulnerability present as the result of worldwide globalization.
07.03.2006	Ramstein Air Force Base Major General Bob Dulaney 3 Jul 2006 After flying all night from Washington D. C. to Ramstein Air Force Base we immediately began working. It was breakfast with major general Bob Dulaney. General Dulaney is director of their space operations for the United States Air Force in Europe. He stated that the number one message that we would hear from the troops throughout the theater was "we are doing good, keep supporting us". The Global War on Terror, in the broad perspective, is the major driver of their efforts in Germany. General stated that there was no shortage of emphasis on this fact, and their base is the primary receiving facility for all of the soldiers who are wounded or ill in Iraq or Afghanistan. In what is somewhat a new role, the Air Force is participating in the development of the NATO response force. He stated that there is a transformation in progress because the mission for NATO has changed since the end of the Cold War. No longer is NATO focused on an enemy to the east, as the Warsaw Pact is no longer. Now they have a major presence in Afghanistan. The General stated that the Air Force meets all capabilities to supply and support NATO, and is to remain flexible and ready. To some degree, NATO Response Forces join with the air expeditionary force of the Air Force. This creates some conflicts with readiness, but the situations are relatively modest and manageable. The other focus of the command at Ramstein is troops abroad and maintaining the quality-of-life for the largest concentration of American Air Force personnel outside of the United States. The General stated that their motto was, “take care of the people, and the people will take care of the mission.” In general, the overall climate in Germany has been more hospitable since the last general election with the change in leadership in that country. The General has noted that there is a difference between reactions to our men in uniform which generally fall along age-related lines. Individuals over the age of 50 generally have great respect for American men and women in uniform, while those born substantially after the war in postwar reconstruction of Germany do not show the same amount of respect. The country is looking forward to a visit by President George W. Bush later in July and the General says the country and its new leadership will benefit from the attention shown by the administration.
06.29.2006	Burgess Welcomes Nominations for Congressional Veterans Commendation U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. proudly announces a special salute to honor local veterans and welcomes nominations from the community for the Congressional Veteran Commendation. In conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, the Congressional Veteran Commendation has been created to honor the distinguished veterans of Texas’ 26th Congressional District and to preserve their stories for future generations of Americans. To nominate a veteran for the Congressional Veteran Commendation, please visit Rep. Burgess’ website at www.house.gov/burgess to get more information and to obtain a nomination form. The completed nomination form, along with any additional information pertaining to the veteran's service, should be returned to my Lewisville office. The deadline for submitting nominations is September 15, 2006. Veterans who are nominated must be residents of the 26th District of Texas and have served our nation with honor consistent with the finest traditions of military service. Several of the nominees will be selected for an in-depth interview, and that interview will be forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to its collection. For more information regarding the project, visit http://www.loc.gov/vets/. I will publicly recognize those individuals selected to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation on Thursday, November 9, 2006, at the “Salute Our Veterans” luncheon sponsored annually by the Highland Village Business Association. To obtain additional information regarding the Congressional Veteran Commendation, the Veterans History Project, nomination forms, or to confirm residency within the 26th District of Texas, please contact my District Administrator, Robin Vaughan, at (972) 434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov.
06.29.2006	“I am saddened by the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling which rejects the Guantanamo military tribunals. An essential component of the War on Terror includes detaining those who wish to do us harm, and our soldiers have, sometimes at the cost of their own lives, worked to contain these individuals. I can only imagine the frustration of our soldiers overseas upon hearing this decision. The split Court clearly shows that this issue is complicated. I am reviewing the final opinion, and I am actively pursing what avenues Congress can take to rectify the current situation. In mid-July, I am scheduled on a mission to review the conditions and treatment of detainees at the U.S. Naval Station on Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Rest assured I am paying close attention to the Court’s decision. I want to reiterate my strong support and complete trust in our military forces and their mission.”
06.28.2006	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Hearing on Mental Illness and Brain Disease June 28, 2006 I would like to thank Chairman Deal for holding this hearing on mental health and brain disease. According to the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), 6 percent of Americans ages 18 and older or 1 in 17 adults suffer from a serious mental illness. Individuals can also be diagnosed with several disorders at one time. During this hearing, we will focus on the following illnesses - major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. Major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder are mood disorders. In addition, major depressive disorder is the leading cause of disability in the United States for people between the ages of 15 to 44. Next, schizophrenia affects about 2.4 million American adults. Both men and women have an equal chance of developing schizophrenia. In consequence, the lives of millions of Americans are touched by these diseases. Mental illnesses can be devastating to the affected person as well as his family. As with every disease, people can become affected by a mental illness at any time in their lives. These can be difficult to diagnose and much research is still needed to bring us a better understanding of the biological basis for these brain diseases. The brain can now be studied in greater depth, as our technology improves, such as with functional MRI that can tract the blood flow associated with different brain activities. Furthermore, studies on the signaling molecules, such as neurotransmitters, are leading to discoveries about where they are located and what they are involved with. Many of these mental disorders have already been associated with disruptions in normal brain processes. This knowledge about pathways is crucial to develop more targeted drugs. Making a proper diagnosis can be difficult, but it is just the initial step. The treatment that works best for an individual can sometimes remain elusive. However, once it is found, these individuals have a chance to lead fulfilling lives if they continue their treatments throughout their lifetimes. Two issues that physicians consider are compliance and the medication side effects, which are both important factors in the successfulness of treatments. I look forward to the testimony from the first panel on the ongoing research and the direction it is headed. Our discussion would also not be complete without getting the perspective of patients and their daily lives with these mental illnesses. The second panel will bring us some of these insights. Thank you for being here with us today.
06.28.2006	“The Supreme Court made a strong decision in favor of upholding the principles behind Texas redistricting which sought to accurately reflect the voting trends of the State. As the State government of Texas moves forward in tweaking the current map, I am confident the Supreme Court’s decision will be a useful and constitutionally sound tool. I am proud to represent the 26th District as it stands today, and I will continue to work hard for my constituents in Washington.”
06.28.2006	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE HEARING Growth, Opportunity, Competition -- America Goes to Work June 28, 2006 Mr. Chairman, thank you for convening this hearing this morning. And thank you, Mr. Secretary, for appearing before us today. The Department of Commerce has one of the widest jurisdictions of all of the federal agencies -- which, of course, gives the Energy and Commerce Committee one of the broadest jurisdictions in the House. Agencies under the umbrella of the Department of Commerce range from the Economic Development Administration to NOAA to the International Trade Administration. Last year, I hosted an economic development summit in the Fort Worth portion of my district and then-EDA Administrator David Sampson delivered our keynote speech. One of the things that I took away from the event was that we need to be sure that we are spending our economic development resources on those areas that are most in need of economic development. I look forward to hearing from the Secretary about what the Economic Development Administration is doing to ensure that these resources are being allocated in this manner. I also look forward to hearing from the Chairman regarding the strength of our economy, our current trade deficit and Free Trade Agreements that might be presented to the House for our approval. Mr. Secretary, thank you again for appearing before us today. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
06.27.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Making the Internet Safe for Kids: The Role of ISPs and Social Networking Sites June 27, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for having this important series of hearings. Since we have started this intense investigation on the sexual exploitation of children over the Internet, we have heard from a range of parties including courageous child victims, journalists who bring these stories to light, and law enforcement agencies charged with prosecuting these predators. After each hearing, while I am troubled by what I have learned, I am proud that this Committee is dedicated to educating Congress and the public on this most dangerous situation. As father of three, I am unable to comprehend how people can commit these types of egregious crimes against children. However, it is crucial for the safety of our children for all of us to know about these evils so that we can help curb this abusive practice. Mr. Chairman, thank you for your leadership regarding this troubling, yet imperative, topic. It is my understanding that after our last subcommittee hearing, Attorney General Gonzalez announced that the Department of Justice, in conjunction with various Internet Service Providers, would study a uniform data retention policy for IP addresses. Hopefully, this will enhance the effectiveness of law enforcement’s investigations of persons engaged in these crimes against children. While some ISPs like Earthlink retain the data for 7 years, others retain the IPs for as little as 31 days. In light of the situation, in my opinion, retaining this crucial data for only a month is almost criminal. I look forward to hearing from each of the ISPs regarding their own current policies. I also think it will be useful to discuss some of the problems associated with a long period of data retention of IP addresses. I believe that the ISPs have a responsibility to the public, and it will be extremely useful to know what type of safety features and filtering devices each company utilizes to help protect our children. Mr. Chairman, my question is, is there now an industry standard that we can hold ISPs accountable to? While ISPs are an important component to this problem, the government also has a vital role to play. During our last hearing, we heard how the government let a young orphan from Russia, Masha Allen, be adopted by a single pedophile. There were all types of blatant clues that the government ignored, including the fact that Masha would not have her own bedroom in this man’s home. The government must also be held accountable for any type of role that they may play when children our sexually abused and/or exploited over the Internet. As lawmakers, it is our job to create effective laws that keep our children away from harm. While at times this is almost an impossible task, we have a responsibility to children and parents to diligently undertake this charge. We must not stop until we fulfill this important obligation to the most innocent of society, our children. Mr. Chairman, thank you again for your continued leadership and dedication to this grave situation. I look forward to working with you and others on the Committee as we continue to seek solutions to this most horrid problem.
06.26.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess reviewed the classified version of concerning the Review of Secret Documents on Iraqi Weapons of Mass Destruction in a secure setting in the U.S. Capitol. Some of the information is declassified and has been included on the document under “associated files.”
06.26.2006	In Fiscal Year 2006, more than $60 billion in federal student loans will be distributed to approximately 8 million student borrowers. For loans that were disbursed on or after July 1, 1998, but before July 1, 2006, new higher interest rates will go into effect on July 1, 2006. To lock in current, lower interest rates, borrowers under both the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) and Direct Loan programs may consolidate their loans before July 1. “It is important for students, parents and families to review their options for consolidating school loans prior to the deadline,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26). “There are many options, and the Department of Education has provided guidelines that will assist students in assessing their current financial situation and help them to make this decision.” In May 30, 2006, the U.S. Treasury auction on the 91-day Treasury bill set the rate at 4.843 percent. As a result, the interest rate for the one-year period beginning on July 1, 2006, for most existing federal student loans for borrowers who are in-school or who are in a grace or deferment status, will be set at 6.54 percent. Loans for borrowers in repayment will be set at 7.14 percent. This is an increase over the current year's rates of 4.70 percent and 5.30 percent, respectively. This rate remains in effect until June 30, 2007. A new variable rate will be set next May that will be effective beginning on July 1, 2007. Interest rates for new loans disbursed on or after July 1, 2006, will also change as a result of earlier legislative action in 2002 and 2006. Federal student loans first disbursed on or after July 1, 2006, will be fixed at a 6.8 percent interest rate for the life of the loan. The fixed 6.8 percent interest rate will apply to both in-school/grace and repayment periods. A couple of important points to remember: Interest rates on Federal Consolidation Loans, under both the Federal Family Education Loan and Direct Loan programs, are fixed at the weighted average of the loans being consolidated. As a result, borrowers who consolidate their student loans before July 1 can lock in the lower interest rate now in effect. Borrowers should contact their lenders directly about consolidation opportunities. Borrowers with Direct Loans may call the direct loan consolidation number at 1-800-557-7392. Additional information on federal financial aid for postsecondary education is available at: http://studentaid.ed.gov or at http://loanconsolidation.ed.gov/.
06.26.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) hosted Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney at a meeting of the House Republican Policy Committee in Washington. On the agenda was a detailed discussion of Governor Romney’s new health care legislation that works to provide affordable, quality and personally-accountable health care to the citizens of Massachusetts. “Personal responsibility is a hallmark of Americans not to mention a tenant of the Republican Party,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “As a physician-Member, my mission is to introduce or support legislation that improves America’s health care system. After reviewing Governor Romney’s revolutionary ideas, I wanted to secure a meeting with him to discuss his plan in more detail, and to educated myself, and other GOP members, on the specifics of his proposal.” On April 12, 2006, Governor Romney signed landmark legislation that reforms the Massachusetts health care system by making health insurance affordable to every resident and establishing mechanisms to help control health care inflation. The Legislation is the product of over two years of work by Administration officials, legislators, health care providers, insurers, and consumer groups. The Act reforms the health care system by focusing on the role of the individual within the system. Specifically, health insurance laws are modernized, barriers to purchasing health insurance are eliminated, existing government assistance is redirected from hospitals to the individual, personal responsibility is expected, and health care costs are contained. “While not all aspects of the Massachusetts plan could be applied to larger states, like Texas, the principles and out-of-the-box vision articulated in the Act makes it worthy of consideration,” said Representative Michael Burgess. “I hope that today’s meeting between myself and Governor Romney, as well as the subsequent discussion with the Policy Committee will move us all a step forward toward instilling personal accountability and common sense back into our delivery of health care services. I remain a strong supporter of a private market system, but understanding innovative plans that push for affordable health care are important to review. America’s system is by far the best in the world, but we must continue to re-energize it with ideas that keep us ahead of the curve.”
06.23.2006	This past week, the House passed legislation to reauthorize the Health Centers Renewal Act which ensures health centers are open to all in a community regardless of their ability to pay. The centers provide access to comprehensive primary and preventive health care services. The community health centers legislation, H.R. 5573 passed by a vote of 424-3. “The effectiveness of community health centers lies in their preventive health care services,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26). “Through the centers, chronic diseases such as asthma, cardiovascular disease and diabetes can be better managed before they turn into expensive emergency situations.” The Act would authorize $10 billion in funding for the federal community health centers program between fiscal 2007 and 2011. The measure would also preserve other elements of the program, including the 51 percent patient majority governing board. Both the Institute of Medicine and General Accountability Office have praised health centers for their effective management of chronic illnesses. In addition community health centers are estimated to be responsible for cutting infant mortality rates in the communities they serve by as much as 10% “Infant mortality rates are appalling,” said Rep. Michael Burgess. “As we have seen in various news reports, the infant mortality rate in Tarrant County are higher than the national average. This reauthorization was critical because these centers provide the necessary health care for low income mothers-to-be who might not otherwise seek much-needed pre-natal services. The centers provide a trusted, community medical home.” Congressman Michael Burgess has spent considerable time over the last year devoting awareness to the importance of streamlining the application process for federally qualified health centers commonly called FQHCs. On May 4, Tarrant County Commissioner Roy C. Brooks appeared before the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health panel to push for a community health center to serve low-income and uninsured residents in southeast Fort Worth. Congressman Burgess sits on the panel in Washington. Together, Rep. Burgess and Commissioner Brooks have been working with Tarrant County hospital officials and community leaders to apply for federal approval of a community center in a section of southeast Fort Worth where they say additional health services are desperately needed. “One of the things I learned last year with the large number of evacuees that came to my district from Louisiana was that it takes a long time to set up a federally qualified health center,” said Congressman Burgess. “For that reason, I worked to include specific language in the Health Centers Renewal Act of 2006 to ease the process and ensure Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) uses all the tools it has at it’s disposal to increase access to health care. If we provide flexibility, we can mitigate the rising cost of health care in the hospital emergency rooms where uninsured patients currently go for treatment.” The bill passed by the House of Representatives now moves to the Senate for consideration.
06.21.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD Internet Data Brokers and Pretexting: Who has Access to Your Private Records? June 21, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for having this important hearing. Our committee has worked diligently to protect our constituents and their private records, and today’s hearing will further expand on why legislation is crucial to solving this problem. Through a thorough investigation by this subcommittee, we have obtained numerous, troubling records. I am shocked that companies and individuals can so easily fraudulently misrepresent themselves and obtain phone records, credit card statements and even autopsy reports. In an age where identify theft can reek havoc on innocent consumers, it is my hope that today’s hearing will not only help to expose the pretexting problem, but also educate Congress and the public of this situation and the absolute need for legislation to help solve it. I am a proud cosponsor of H.R. 4943, The Prevention of Fraudulent Access to Phone Records Act, and I look forward to its prompt passage by the full House of Representatives. This legislation is needed to ensure that our constituent’s private phone records are not available to the highest bidder. Congress expressly prohibited pretexting for financial data under Gramm-Leach-Bliley, but that law does not include telephone records. Fortunately, this bill closes that loop hole by prohibiting pretexting for telephone records and strengthening the security requirements for proprietary customer calling information held by telephone companies. Over the next two days, this committee will have the opportunity to question various parties connected to pretexting, including data brokers, federal agencies, and state and local law enforcement officers. We have been able to identify some of the major data brokers operating in this country, and today many of them will have the opportunity to testify before us and explain the legal reasons for their business. One such data broker, Mr. Patrick Baird of PDJ Services, is located in a small town right outside of my district. It is troubling that these companies are prevalent throughout the country, even in small town Texas. From my understanding, many of these data brokers have indicated that they will invoke their Fifth Amendment right and refuse to answer our questions. Of course, they have the Constitutional right not to incriminate themselves, but it is my hope that they will cooperate with us to the fullest extent possible. Once again Mr. Chairman, thank you for your leadership on this issue. Our constituents will all benefit from these new protections of our private records.
06.21.2006	Today, The Leadership of the House of Representatives has postponed a scheduled to reauthorization of Voting Rights Act of 1965. The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26): “The Voting Rights Act has benefited our country for over 40 years. This delay is unfortunate, but I am confident the review period will be short. I remain committed to voting in favor of reauthorization of the VRA when it comes to the House floor.”
06.20.2006	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE MARKUP – Energy Legislation June 20, 2006 Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you for holding today's mark-up. This morning we will consider a number of non-controversial pieces of legislation. I am especially pleased that we will consider H.R. 5632, sponsored by Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Engel, and Mr. Allen. It is estimated that ensuring properly inflated tires can increase fuel economy by 1-2 percent alone. But in order to achieve these energy savings, consumers must be educated. This bill will provide consumers with the information that they need to make smart decisions when buying replacement tires and encourage them to perform the necessary routine maintenance that will further maximize fuel efficiency. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
06.20.2006	U.S. Representative Burgess Brings an Additional $4 Million to UNT’s ARTI Today, Congressman Michael Burgess secured $4 million for Advanced Research and Technology Initiative (ARTI) at the University of North Texas in Denton. The funding comes from the fiscal year 2007 Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations bill passed by the U.S. House of Representatives. The University of North Texas’s ARTI, formerly known as the Center for Advanced Research and Technology, is a research facility in microelectronics, optoelectronics, sensors, energy and informatics. The relationship between UNT and DoD is already producing concrete results. For example, ARTI faculty developed advanced, flexible, nanocomposite environmental barrier materials for integration into flexible displays. The staff is also working on a variety of other technologies to enhance the lethality and survivability of the United States’ war fighter. These include autonomous sensor arrays for non line-of-sight targeting in urban environments, large area multi-wavelength flexible emitters for use as phototherapy bandages, non-linear optical materials for infrared imaging and 3D photonic crystals for next generation high energy batteries. “The University of North Texas had the foresight and drive to become an integral player in advancing technology that helps not only our overall national security but also improves our everyday lives,” commented U.S. Representative Michael Burgess. The University’s goal is to provide the capabilities necessary to satisfy the growing technological and engineering needs of the North Texas region and for the talented faculty to advance research on projects of national importance associated with nanotechnology. Nanotechnology is the link to better products from stain-resistant pants and improved optics to creating lighter-weight, but strong security vests for our soldiers. “Every fiscal year I am committed to securing funding so North Texas remains at the heart of research and technological advancements,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. Rep. Michael Burgess’ fiscal year 2007 request will allow the partnership between DoD and UNT to complete ARTI infrastructural development and finalize it’s mission of becoming a regional and national defense research and development force. The facilities are multi-user in nature allowing ARTI to form an “umbrella” of capabilities for faculty researchers in order for them to pursue competitive research support in interdisciplinary areas of expertise in areas vital to national security. The ARTI facility serves as a focal point for basic and applied research and is the first high-tech, entrepreneurial research and development park in Denton County, one of the fastest growing communities in the United States. The fiscal year 2007 Department of Defense Appropriations bill will now go through the Senate. After the Senate completes their work on the bill, a conference will be conducted to negotiate differences between the House and Senate language. All allocations are based on the language in the final passed conference report. The Department of Defense Appropriations Act contains more than $1 billion less in earmarks than last year’s bill and $2.7 billion less than last year’s conference report. Among other things, H.R. 5631, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007, will provide the following: $1.5 billion to develop improvised explosive device countermeasures; An additional $725 million for personnel force protection items, including body armor; Full funding for the 2.2 percent military pay raise, effective Jan. 1, 2007; and $500 million above the president’s request for National Guard equipment needs. Overall Budgetary Highlights: Military Personnel - $84.9 billion Operation and Maintenance - $120.5 billion Procurement - $81.8 billion Research, Development, Test and Evaluation - $75.3 billion Ø Revolving and Management Funds - $2.4 billion Ø Emergency Wartime Appropriations - $50.0 billion
06.15.2006	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Energy and Commerce Full Committee Mark Up Multi-Health Care Legislation Mark-Up June 15, 2006 I am supportive of the bills we have before the full committee today. These bills will maintain access to health care, improve the delivery of care by increasing integration of health information technology, and provide important resources to Children’s Hospitals to train the next generation of pediatric medical specialists. I am concerned though as we move forward with a clean reauthorization of community health centers without addressing some of the concerns I have raised before this committee in the past in relation to waiver authority available to HRSA. No one can question that community health centers have played an integral role in providing access to millions of uninsured Americans. I think we all share the goal to increase access to community health centers whether they be in our home districts or generally nationwide. However, I have been disappointed that HRSA has been unable to clarify how they can help other entities provide this type of care under a model that gives them time to meet certain program requirements but use some of the resources made available under this program for a time limited basis. I believe that the law has been unclear in this area and will address this issue in an amendment I plan to offer today to HR 5573, the Health Centers Renewal Act. In some cases, I believe it is appropriate to adapt our current model to conditions that exist in the community and give willing entities a little help so they can provide low cost health care to needy Americans. Statement FQHC Amendment Energy and Commerce Full Committee Mark-Up June 15, 2006 What the Amendment Does Clarifies the HRSA and HHS’ authority to waive the FQHC board governance requirement to grant clinics an FQHC look-alike designation The amendment also gives HRSA and HHS the authority to grant a look-alike designation to a clinic owned or operated by a charitable hospital or an academic institution Both waiver authorities are a one-time, time-limited ability for clinics to develop a board and become economically independent of their parent organization and must meet all the requirements of statute at the end of two years, or otherwise lose their look-alike designation The amendment also requires the Secretary to complete a study to ensure that clinics approved under this waiver authority meet program goals and improve access to health care in the community Why This is Important Giving HRSA and HHS the authority to grant these waivers will greatly enhance the network of free or low-cost clinics available to uninsured Americans This authority will give more entities, already serving this population in many communities, an additional financial resource to become a medical home for poor families Clinics serving a low-income population operate on extremely thin margins, and most often operate showing a loss at the end of the year, so this temporary designation will give them some time limited financial resources with full cost reimbursement for Medicare and Medicaid services as they work to become fully operating and independent health clinics The current model can be inflexible to meet community needs This will make it easier for more clinics to meet FQHC requirements and protect vital grant funding for already existing clinics Who Supports This Amendment American Nurses Association University of Michigan School of Nursing American Hospital Association Health Care Leadership Council The Catholic Health Association Texas Tech University Health Science Center Philadelphia Health Management Corporation Ascension Health Care Arizona State University College of Nursing National Nursing Centers Consortium Texas Health Resrources LaSalle University School of Nursing University of North Carolina Health Resource Center of Cincinnati Migrant Health Service of Minnesota Queens University of Charlotte Long Island University Drexel University Texas Hospital Association, and on and on and on
06.13.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD Human Tissue Samples: NIH Research Policies and Practices June 13, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for your continued leadership into the investigation of another important public health issue. During my tenure in Congress, I have had the privilege of visiting NIH multiple times. After each visit, I am amazed by the research and study that their scientists perform on a daily basis. After each visit, my hope that a cure for cancer, a cure for Alzheimer’s, will be found, if not during my lifetime, then my children’s. I would like to take this opportunity to sincerely thank the doctors, researchers, and scientists at the NIH for their dedication to such a noble profession. However, as within any organization, even the noblest of endeavors can go astray if unethical individuals are present. It is my opinion that outside consulting by scientists is not, within itself, an unethical practice. While outside consulting is currently prohibited by NIH employees, I believe that these types of arrangements can be extremely beneficial to society if constructed in an ethical and transparent manner. The situation before us involving Dr. Sunderland is an egregious example of how the system can fail if there is a lack of transparency and a lack of ethical behavior. Dr. Molchan, thank you for bringing this unconscionable situation to our attention. In preparation of today’s hearing, the committee released a bipartisan staff report to the Members of this subcommittee. I think it is important to note that the bipartisan staff report concluded, and I quote, “It should be noted that the Committee staff found no evidence that Pfizer had any knowledge relating to the questionable conduct of Dr. Sunderland in connection with the April 1998 MTA and the subsequent shipments of samples.” End quote. The unethical practice lies clearly, and solely, with Dr. Sunderland. Congress will soon begin our work on the reauthorization of NIH. I feel certain that we will use the lessons learned today and tomorrow throughout the reauthorization process. It is our role to provide adequate oversight over NIH and ensure that taxpayers dollars and other resources, including tissue samples, are used in a worthwhile and ethical manner. We must not abdicate our responsibility to the American public regarding this important task. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this hearing and look forward to a lively discussion on some of NIH’s practices and procedures concerning human tissue samples. I yield back the remainder of my time.
06.09.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD Cyber Security Challenges at the Department of Energy June 9, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for holding this important hearing. In the post 9-11 world that we live in today, our national security has become the most important issue facing our nation. We must do everything within our power to ensure that we do not become victims of terrorism again. Our committee has a very important responsibility to the American public, and I am glad we are continuing our oversight of nuclear facilities. As terrorist become more and more sophisticated, we must continue to implement and maintain comprehensive measures to secure our safety. I am deeply concerned about the reported lack of safety and security surrounding some nuclear facilities. From my understanding, there have been many instances where cyber attacks could have been avoided if simple security controls, such as security patches and effective passwords, had been implemented. While many cyber problems cannot be cured by a patch or password, it’s unbelievable that the agency responsible for so many of our national security measures could have overlooked the simplest of solutions. It is no wonder that Inspector General Gregory Friedman has given the DOE an unsatisfactory assessment during its recent FISMA evaluation. However, I am encouraged by the DOE’s revitalization plan and I look forward to discussing this issue in more detail. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this crucial hearing in which we can discuss some of these essential concerns regarding the DOE’s cyber security and the security of our nation.
06.08.2006	U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess today issued the following statement on the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi: “I first want to congratulate our Armed Services and their commitment, through much adversity, to fighting the insurgency in Iraq. Their bravery and fortitude have won freedom for the Iraqi people, enabled a new Iraqi government to be established, and slowly but surely, to chip away at the forces that wish to harm us and all those people who believe in democracy. The death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi marks a significant day of achievement in the War on Terror. His death is a testament to the will of the Iraqi people to secure their own country and an acknowledgement of their strong relationship with the United State’s forces. An embodiment of the true malevolence, terror and cruelty, al-Zarqawi’s demise brings us all a step closer to safety and a leap forward to eradicating terrorism at all levels. In addition, the appointments of the Ministers of Defense and the Interior in Iraq are concrete political steps that further improve the security situation in the country. The battles have been grueling and the costs high, but the United State’s is working to bring a new, democratic partner into the global community. Iraq will be a beacon of hope to those in the Middle East that seek to have justice and freedom."
06.08.2006	Today, Congressman Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) introduced H.R. 5555, Trauma Care Planning and Development Act of 2006. The bill works to bring a cohesive and organized method to planning and developing trauma centers. The Senate companion bill, S.265, sponsored by Majority Leader Bill Frist has been reported from committee and waiting to be hot-lined. “There is nothing more unique about someone than their medical care,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “When a trauma occurs, patients need the best system possible to move them from the point of impact to recovery, and this bill will help to streamline efforts in planning and developing such a system.” Trauma is the leading cause of death for Americans between the ages of 1 and 44 years and is among the top five causes of death in the general population of the United States. According to the CDC every year, more than 150,000 Americans die from traumatic injuries, many of which result from motor vehicle collisions, violence, and falls. Given the nation's renewed focus on enhancing disaster preparedness, it is critical that the Federal Government increase its commitment to strengthening programs governing trauma care system planning and development. Survival among severely injured patients requires specialist care delivered promptly and in a coordinated manner. Care begins at the scene of injury, continues through emergency transport to the trauma center, intensive care unit, hospital floor, and ultimately to rehabilitation. Optimal acute care depends on technical expertise and coordination between teams of providers, including first responders, trauma center teams, acute care and rehabilitative care teams. The Act would amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize several emergency services and trauma care programs administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). Those programs include grants to states for the development of trauma care systems and an emergency care residency training program. This bill would require HRSA to contract for a study on trauma care and trauma research. Highlights of Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development Act of 2006: a. Improves the collection and analysis of trauma patient data with the goal of improving the overall system of care for these patients. b. Adjusts States matching requirements for Federal grant funding c. Provides a self-evaluation mechanism to assist States in assessing and improving their trauma care systems d. Authorizes an Institute of Medicine (IOM) study on the state of trauma care and trauma research e. Reauthorizes Title XII of the Public Health Service Act for a period of 5 years f. Doubles the funding available for trauma system development under Parts A-C of Title XII for fiscal year 2006, from $6 million to $12 million for the first year, $10 million in the second year and $8 million for each remaining year; and g. Authorizes $750,000 for fiscal year 2008 for an IOM study of trauma care systems.
06.07.2006	I wanted to address recent news headlines on the family cluster infected by avian flu in Indonesia. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) reports released on May 31 and June 6, the epidemiologic investigation has revealed that the disease is still fairly contained in the Kubu Simbelang Village in North Sumatra, Indonesia. The original avian flu case, the index patient, was a woman who had close contact with her backyard chickens. Some of those chickens died prior to the beginning of her illness. Seven of her relatives, of whom six died, were confirmed by testing as being infected with the H5N1 avian flu virus. Her relatives most likely became infected when they spent the night in the sick patient’s home or took personal care of her. Thus far, only her close relatives have been infected with avian flu. Since health care workers and neighboring villagers are not being infected, the pandemic alert phase remains at level 3 (very limited human-to-human transmission). In other words, it will currently not be raised to WHO pandemic alert phase 4 (increased human-to-human transmission). The ongoing outbreaks in poultry and humans undermine the continued need to monitor and control avian influenza internationally. I have recently discussed the situation with the CDC and our efforts to gather timely and accurate information on avian flu outbreaks. Yesterday, I also met with Dr. John Clifford, USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Chief Veterinary Officer. He provided me with an update on their efforts to protect poultry in the United States. Robust biosecurity measures exist for the commercial poultry sector and efforts to strengthen biosecurity measures for backyard poultry are under way. Increased wild bird surveillance, including testing for avian flu, has also begun in Alaska and across the nation. In addition, I recently toured the NIH National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID). Dr. Anthony Fauci, NIAID Director, gave an excellent overview of the current research on vaccines for influenza as well as other diseases such as HIV, ebola, and SARS. He highlighted the need to both prepare for annual and pandemic influenza to decrease the mortality of this infectious disease. Dr. Gary Nabel, Director of the Vaccine Research Center, and Dr. Brian Murphy, the Co-Chief of the Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, also joined us on this visit. Many advances in understanding emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases in order to better target vaccines are taking place. Finally, I have been communicating with the Texas Department of State Health Services and Texas Animal Health Commission to further be in touch with my own state’s preparedness efforts. I believe that it is important to maintain these ongoing conversations on the federal, state, and local level to ensure that we are taking the necessary steps to keep up with the latest avian flu developments and preparing accordingly. Strengthening our emergency infrastructure and integrating our responses across all levels is one of my main focuses. For additional information on avian influenza, please visit www.pandemicflu.gov or my website under legislative issues.
06.07.2006	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE LEGISLATIVE HEARING Discussion Draft of H.R. "Boutique Fuel Reduction Act of 2005" June 7, 2006 Mr. Chairman, thank you for convening this hearing this morning. And thanks to our panelists for coming before us today. As we have learned through a series of hearings over the last few months, there are a number of factors that contribute to high gasoline prices, including crude oil prices, tight refinery capacity, and environmental regulations. Last week, we passed legislation on the floor that would increase domestic oil supply by allowing oil and gas exploration in ANWR. Later today on the floor we will consider legislation that would streamline the permitting process for new fuel refining capacity by eliminating needless bureaucratic delay and giving federal courts the authority to keep projects on schedule. And here this morning, we will examine a discussion draft of legislation that seeks to reduce price spikes associated the environmental premium imposed on the price of gasoline by boutique fuels in a time of supply disruption. Non-federal fuel specification requirements reduce the fungibility of gasoline, especially in a supply shortage situation. That means that gasoline that can be used in Lubbock cannot be used in Fort Worth. Gasoline used in Utah cannot be used in Chicago. This limited inability to move gasoline across the country in response to local demand results in increased prices at the pump. In my home State of Texas, we willingly produce oil and gasoline to send to our friends in the Northeast because they don't make those things for themselves. But we pay more per gallon at the pump because of our generosity. The emissions from our refineries have a negative impact on our air quality, which means we must fill our tanks with more-expensive reformulated gasoline. Studies have shown that air quality has an impact on public health, and as a physician, public health is paramount to me. I am certainly not suggesting that we reduce our air standards in order to lower the price of gas. But we should employ some common sense. It does not make sense to have 15 different approved fuels in use across the country, as EPA indicated in their May 31st report. The Government Accountability Office has said that boutique fuels add anywhere between three tenths to 3 cents per gallon of gasoline. While this may not seem like a lot, with gasoline at $3.09, this can add up very quickly. A supply shortage in one of the "fuel islands" created by the use of boutique fuels, is exacerbated by the area’s inability to import fuel from a neighboring area, which can lead to price volatility, commonly referred to as “price spikes”. In addition to increased prices at the pump, the logistical complications of transporting and distributing boutique fuels to the "fuel islands" could intensify supply shortages if the source of the fuel is not nearby. In North Texas recently, the logistical problems associated with the transition between MTBE and ethanol caused price spikes that make gasoline in the Dallas Fort Worth area some of the most expensive in the country. In EPAct, we capped the number of boutique fuels to that number already approved by the EPA; with this discussion draft, we are looking to reduce the number of boutique gasoline fuels in use across the country. I am looking forward to hearing from our panelists about the approach taken in the discussion draft and I'd like to thank you all for taking the time out of your busy schedules to be with us today. Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
06.06.2006	At an informal coffee in Highland Village, Congressman Burgess recently recognized the outstanding young people from the 26th Congressional District who have accepted appointment offers to attend one the of the U.S. Service Academies: the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY. He presented each of them with a Special Certificate of Congressional Recognition and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their appointments. Burgess said, “One of the privileges of serving in the United States House of Representatives is the opportunity to nominate outstanding young people from the 26th Congressional District to be considered for appointment to our nation’s service academies. The academies offer a top-notch education for those individuals who have the desire to serve our county. I am honored to be able to recommend local students who are dedicated to the peace and security of the United States and will one day serve our country with distinction as officers in the U.S. Armed Forces. Those individuals honored were: U.S. Military Academy Tim Clark, Highland Village (USMA Prep School) Jonathan Curley, Fort Worth (Kimball HS) Baker Flagg, Frisco (Trinity Christian School) Joshua Knight, North Richland Hills (Home School) U.S. Naval Academy Kelly Altschul, Highland Village (Carrollton Christian Academy) Andrew Burger, North Richland Hills (Birdville HS) Howard Eliason, Keller (Keller HS) Jonathan Herb, Keller (Keller HS) Dan Hildenbrand, Denton (NMMI) Joshua Jordan, Lewisville (Lewisville HS) Caleb McKinnon, Argyle (Coram Deo Academy) Meredith Sakovich, North Richland Hills (Richland HS) Eric Stromme, Frisco (Frisco HS) U.S. Air Force Academy Nathan Brazzel, Denton (USAFA Prep School) Matt Cook, Denton (Denton HS) Brett Fields, Keller (USAFA Prep School) Justin Fisk, North Richland Hills (Birdville HS) Kimberly Madorran, Flower Mound (Flower Mound HS) Robert Sparks, Hurst (Nolan Catholic HS) Zachary Taylor, Roanoke (USAFA Prep School) U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Frank Hlatky, Lewisville (Lewisville HS) Jackson Mershon, Keller (NMMI) Anthony Scaparra, Flower Mound (Marcus HS) TX-26 2006 Academy Appointees Photo Back Row (l-r): Nathan Brazzel, Andrew Burger, Kelly Altschul, Joshua Knight Middle Row (l-r): Jonathan Curley, Howard Eliason, Matt Cook, Justin Fisk, Zach Taylor, Eric Stromme, Baker Flagg, Robert Sparks, Tim Clark, Meredith Sakovich Front Row (seated l-r): Kimberly Madorran, Anthony Scaparra, Frank Hlatky, Dan Hildenbrand, Congressman Michael Burgess, Jackson Mershon, Jonathan Herb NOT Pictured: Brett Fields, Joshua Jordan, Caleb McKinnon
06.06.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) participated in the House Republican Policy Committee panel discussion on fundamental federal tax reform. “As Americans agonize over their annual tax returns, they can find some solace in the fact that there are strong voices trumpeting their interests,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. Rep. Burgess delivered brief remarks on his bill HR 1040, The Freedom Flat Tax Act which he introduced during the first session of the 109th Congress. “It is time Uncle Sam lets Americans take home more of their hard-earned money,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “President Bush has made a commitment to make fundamental changes to our tax code, and I believe HR 1040 is the best solution to combat our cumbersome system.” A benefit of the Freedom Flat Tax is that it spurs economic growth through eliminating the current tax code’s bias against savings and investment. Because the flat tax treats all economic activity equally, it will promote greater economic efficiency and increased prosperity. “The legislation creates a fair and simple system, which will help boost economic activity,” commented Rep. Michael Burgess. The Freedom Flat Tax Act will phase-in the flat tax over a three-year period, with a 19-percent rate for the first two years and a 17-percent rate in subsequent years. It will have no deductions or loopholes, but it will allow some personal exemptions. Unlike other versions of the flat tax, this legislation allows individuals and businesses to choose if and when they will opt into the system. The flat tax restores fairness to the tax law by treating everyone equally. Other panel participants on the panel included Representative John Linder, testifying on his Fair Tax legislation; Representative Phil English, testifying on his Simplified USA Tax Act; and Representative Robert Goodlatte, discussed his Tax Code Elimination Act with opening remarks by Policy Committee Chairman Adam Putnam.
06.06.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD The Silicosis Story: Mass Tort Screening and the Public Health June 6, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for your continued leadership into the investigation of this important public health issue. While today we continue to address the potential problems associated with mass screening and the diagnosis of illnesses, I strongly believe that it is the role and responsibility of this entire committee to address the imminent health care needs of our nation. We must not abdicate our responsibility to the American public to actively pursue public health concerns. Thank you, Mr. Chairman for recognizing this vital role of our committee and investigating such a serious issue. I have been licensed to practice medicine in the State of Texas since 19XX. Throughout my twenty-blank years of practice, I learned to fully appreciate the importance and need for an efficient and effective medical screening process. Thousands upon thousands of lives have been saved due to medical screening processes that were able to detect illnesses and other serious maladies. This system relies upon trained physicians and other medical personnel to perform reliable diagnostic evaluations. Without this crucial element, the screening system falls apart, thus, jeopardizing the health and welfare of the public that was meant to be protected. The medical community, including physicians and medical boards, must recognize this essential function. One of the first lessons that a medical student learns is that the doctor/patient relationship is sacred. For a doctor to truly help the patient, the patient must have full faith and trust in the doctor. Once the relationship has been established, the doctor owes a fiduciary duty to the patient, and must exercise a high standard of care towards the patient. This relationship is a cornerstone of the medical community, and cannot be easily disregarded. The situation before us today exemplifies the harm that can occur when patients believe that the relationship has been established but the doctor abandons his duty. Today, I look forward to examining my homestate’s rules and regulations involving mass health screenings in Texas. I would like to especially welcome Mr. Richard Ratliff of the Texas Department of State Health Services, and Dr. Donald Patrick of the Texas Medical Board. Gentlemen, thank you for traveling from Austin today to address this important issue. I look forward to entering into a lively discussion with each of you. While I am appreciative of these witnesses coming before us today, I would also like to take a moment to express my extreme dissatisfaction regarding the absence of two witnesses on the second panel—Mr. Heath Mason of N&M, Inc., and Dr. Todd Coulter. While they chose not to appear before Congress today, I have full faith that the Chairman will continue to explore all legal means to obtain their testimony. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this hearing, and I look forward to working with you and the rest of the committee to achieve real results for the public health and welfare of this country. I yield back the remainder of my time.
06.05.2006	U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess is pleased to announce that four North Texas teachers have been selected to participate in Southwest Vistas: The Border in American History, a teacher institute sponsored by the University of Houston, the University of Texas at El Paso, and Humanities Texas, the nonprofit state partner of the National Endowment for the Humanities. Representative Burgess nominated the following teachers for this opportunity: Jeff Barksdale, a teacher at Northwest High School in Justin; Amy Patterson, a teacher at Smithfield Middle School in North Richland Hills; Cynthia Richmond, a teacher at Richland High School; and Mary Thornton, a teacher at North Richland Hills. “Understand America’s history is a cornerstone of a solid education,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “These exceptional instructors are laying a strong foundation for our students which will not only prepare them for the future but also give them an appreciation of the past.” A total of eighty outstanding classroom teachers from throughout Texas will attend either the institute on the University of Houston campus from June 4–7, or the institute on the University of Texas at El Paso campus from June 11–14. Barksdale, a teacher for seven years, currently teaches world history. Patterson, who has been teaching for five years, currently teaches U.S. history. Richmond, a teacher for six years, teaches U.S. history and world geography. Thornton just completed her first year of teaching and teaches social studies. Teachers will attend lectures and participate in workshops that examine U.S. history and Texas history through the broader perspective of the Western hemisphere. “Humanities Texas is pleased to sponsor such an exciting educational initiative,” said Michael L. Gillette, executive director. “As border issues receive attention in the public dialogue, it’s essential that teachers and students understand the rich history and culture of the region.” Steven Mintz, the John and Rebecca Moores Professor of History at the University of Houston, echoed the importance of providing teachers with this kind of professional development experience. “The teachers selected for this institute will have the opportunity to learn from preeminent scholars in the fields of U.S. and Latin American history and to analyze a variety of primary documents related to state, national and international history,” he said. Michael Topp, chair of the University of Texas at El Paso Department of History, emphasized that this is a unique and important educational opportunity for Texas teachers. “Participants will return to the classroom with fresh ideas and strategies for teaching Texas, U.S., and world history.” Southwest Vistas is made possible with support from a We the People grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities. The state affiliate of the National Endowment for the Humanities, Humanities Texas develops and supports diverse programs across the state, including lectures, oral history projects, teacher institutes, museum exhibitions and documentary films. For more information: Humanities Texas, visit http://www.humanitiestexas.org Southwest Vistas in Houston, visit http://www.swvistas.uh.edu Southwest Vistas in El Paso, visit http://ia.utep.edu/universityrelations
05.25.2006	Today, U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) announced the winner of the fourth annual 26th Congressional District art competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” A sophomore at Marcus High School in Flower Mound, Annaliese Hnat, won first prize in the 2006 competition with her oil pastel entitled “Unheard Cries.” The art competition was open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing in the district. “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic achievements of our local high school students and to share the results of those talents with our area and the rest of the country,” Congressman Burgess said. “Annaliese’s work makes the 26th District proud. She is an extremely talented young woman with a tremendous gift.” Congressman Burgess honored all the participating student artists at a reception recently at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton hosted by the art competition’s co-sponsor, The Greater Denton Arts Council. The juried competition was judged by Margo DeHoyos and Stacia Gower. Annaliese’s work will be displayed in the United States Capitol complex for the coming year. A ribbon-cutting ceremony opening the national 2006 “An Artistic Discovery” exhibition will take place in Washington, D.C. on June 28th. The ceremony will honor the winning artists from congressional districts all over the country. Annaliese is an art student of Jim Neiswender at Marcus High School and the daughter of Michael and Jill Hnat of Flower Mound. Three Honorable Mention winners were also announced: Maria Caceres of North Richland Hills representing Birdville High School; Scott Levings of North Richland Hills representing Birdville High School; and Michelle Marella of Corinth, representing Liberty Christian School in Argyle. “Congratulations are in order for Maria, Scott, Michelle and Annaliese for their achievements,” said Burgess. Since the competition was first launched in 1982, nearly 5,000 local contests have been conducted that have involved more than 650,000 high school students. Congressman Burgess was pleased to bring this worthwhile program to the high school students of the 26th District and looks forward to next year’s competition.
05.24.2006	(Submitted to The Hill – Congress Blog) I am glad to hear the Minority Leader acknowledge we have an energy problem, but surely we can all agree that conservation alone is not the panacea. What we require is a balance between conservation and production which puts us on a clear path to energy independence. This should be a goal of the entire Congress – that means both sides of the aisle. Even as worldwide demand for petroleum has increased in the last decade, the growth in production has been relatively flat. The inevitable result is higher prices at the gasoline pump – which is exactly where we are today. The reality is that it takes time to go from an oilfield to the gas station. And because of opinions like the Minority Leader, we have lost considerable time in this regard. And his delay hurts Americans in their pocketbook. In 1995 in the 104th Congress, H.R. 2491 would have allowed oil exploration in ANWR. The Department of Energy has estimated that between 1 and 1.3 million barrels of oil a day could be derived from this source. Unfortunately, this legislation was vetoed by President Clinton. That was over 10 years ago. And given a timeline of 7 to 14 years for building the pipeline structure, it is time that we could scarcely afford. I have been to ANWR. The vast coastal plain is unsuitable for habitation during the summer months because of its marshy consistency. Any caribou unlucky enough to calve in this region would likely die from exsanguination at the hands of the mosquitoes there. The people in ANWR are counting on this Congress to do the right thing and allow them, the rightful owners of these mineral rights, to begin developing the resources that are granted to them upon statehood in 1959.
05.24.2006	SUBCOMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND AIR QUALITY HEARING: "Vehicle and Fuels Technology: Next Generation" May 24, 2006 Mr. Chairman, thank you for convening this hearing today. In recent months, and indeed since Hurricane Katrina reminded us how perilously dependent and accustomed we have become, as a nation, to cheap oil and gasoline, there have been dozens of hearings, held in multiple committees, on both sides of the Capitol, on the subject of high gasoline prices. I continue to believe that the most important thing that we can do to alleviate high gas prices in the short term is to increase domestic supply of crude oil. We should allow, and in fact encourage, exploration and production here at home. This includes traditional exploration and development in the Outer Continental Shelf and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, as well as non-traditional sources like oil shale. But in the mid to long term, we need to look at other solutions. Since the transportation sector consumes the lion's share of oil used in the United States, the future of transportation will play a vital role in weaning our addition to foreign oil. It is no secret that I am an avid supporter of hybrid vehicles, but I am looking forward to hearing the panelists discuss the other types of vehicle technologies as well as the other possible motor fuels. I'd like to thank our panelists again for giving up their time to testify before us this morning. And with that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
05.23.2006	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) supports the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) “Click It or Ticket” campaign which runs from today into June which is National Drive Safe Month. While on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Michael Burgess introduced transportation legislation to develop and implement a process for the expedited environmental review and approval of safety emergency highway construction or maintenance projects that correct or improve hazardous locations on a highway. “Stronger legislation to improve highway conditions can only accomplish part of our quest for safe driving conditions,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “Individual drivers must do their part by wearing their safety belts every time the get behind the wheel.” Nearly one in five Americans (or 18 percent nationally) still fail to regularly wear their safety belts when driving or riding in a motor vehicle, according to a new report from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Among those least likely to buckle up: young males, pickup truck drivers and their passengers, people who live in rural areas, and night-time drivers. According to the Texas Department of Transportation, Texas leads the nation in traffic fatalities. In 2000, 3,769 people were killed and more than 300,000 were injured on Texas streets and highways. Thanks to “Click It or Ticket,” safety belt use in Texas has increased from, 76 percent to 89.9 percent since 2002. Even though this is a significant increase, some drivers still mistakenly believe that safety belts are not helpful, but statistics prove that the failure to regularly wear a safety belt can be deadly. According to a preliminary report from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 43,200 died on the nation’s highways in 2005, up from 42,636 in 2004. Injuries dropped from 2.79 million in 2004 to 2.68 million in 2005, a decline of 4.1 percent. Fifty-five percent of passenger vehicle occupants who died in 2005 were unbelted. “I recognize that many individuals feel it is their right to wear or not wear their safety belts in their automobile, but I can tell you that by not doing so, drivers are not only in violation of the law, they are risking their lives,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “All motorists deserve to drive on the safest roads possible and under that safest possible conditions and that means they must buckle up.” Regular safety belt use is the single most effective way to protect people and reduce fatalities in motor vehicle crashes. When worn correctly, safety belts have proven to reduce the risk of fatal injury to front-seat passenger car occupants by 45 percent – and by 60 percent in pickup trucks, SUVs and mini-vans. Safety belt checkpoints and other stepped-up law enforcement activities will be conducted during the national “Click It or Ticket” enforcement mobilization, which runs May 22nd through June 4th. For more information on the national “Click It or Ticket” mobilization, please visit www.buckleupamerica.org or for State of Texas information, please visit http://www.buckleuptexas.com/clickit/default.asp.
05.18.2006	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE HEARING: "Unlocking America's Energy Resources: Next Generation" May 18, 2006 Mr. Chairman, Thank you for convening today's hearing. In my district, we run the gamut of renewable energy - there's a company that manufactures solar panels in Keller and another that manufactures wind turbines in Gainesville. The Lake Dallas Independent School District uses geothermal energy to heat and cool their schools. The Wal-Mart in McKinney, which is near both my district and Chairman Barton's, is one of two of their new “energy efficient” stores and uses renewable technologies such as solar panels on the roof and wind turbines in the parking lot to generate electricity for the store. And in Denton, under the leadership of Mayor Euline Brock, they have constructed the world's first renewable biodiesel facility. The facility is powered by biogas extracted from the adjacent City of Denton Landfill and has the capacity to produce approximately three million gallons of pure biodiesel per year. The City of Denton's use of a biodiesel fuel mix is expected to reduce emissions by twelve tons per year. The opening of this facility opening demonstrates the City of Denton's dedication to cleaning up the air we breathe. This is especially important in the North Texas region as we work to comply with Clean Air Act requirements. That is why this hearing is so important today. As our economy grows, so too does our demand for energy. As we try to satisfy this demand in a environmentally-friendly way, affordable renewable fuel sources will take on an even greater importance than they do already. I'd like to thank the witnesses for appearing before us today; I am looking forward to hearing your testimony.
05.10.2006	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4902, to give philanthropist, golfer and North Texan Byron Nelson the Congressional Gold Medal. Introducing the legislation on March 8, 2006, Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) worked feverously to garner more than 300 cosponsors for the bill in three week’s time achieving the two-thirds requirement for a floor vote. It passed the House by a voice vote. “The outpouring of support to give Byron Nelson the Congressional Gold Medal was astounding,” said Congressman Burgess. “I knew he was a national treasure, but the Member of the House couldn’t have agreed more.” While most people know of Mr. Nelson’s significant contributions to the game of golf, it his is humanitarian and philanthropic activities that make him worthy of the Congressional Gold Medal. Byron Nelson is a champion for the underprivileged and has given his time, talents, and funds to make this a better world. Byron Nelson and the EDS Byron Nelson Championship, to be held this weekend in Irving, has raised over $88,000,000 for the Salesmanship Club Youth and Family Centers, a nonprofit agency that provides education and mental health services for more than 2,700 children and their families. The Byron and Louise Nelson Golf Endowment Fund has provided over $1.5 million in endowment funds to Abilene Christian University in Abilene, Texas. Another example of his service is his dedication to the Metroport Meals on Wheels which provides daily, home-delivered, hot lunch for the frail, elderly and chronically ill residents. Byron Nelson has been an active honorary chairman since 1992. His philanthropic nature and pure heart has improved the lives of citizens throughout the country. Byron Nelson is, of course, also a legend to the game of golf. Much noted for his unprecedented 11 simultaneous wins in 1945, his 5 victories at major tournaments, and his overall 54 career victories, it is no surprise that Mr. Nelson is one of the greatest players the game of golf has ever seen. Twice named “Male Athlete of the Year” by the Associated Press, a feat only accomplished by one other golfer, Tiger Woods, Bryon Nelson was selected for the Ryder Cup four times, leading the United States team as Captain to victory over Great Britain in 1965. He is also the only PGA professional golfer that has a PGA tour named in his honor: the EDS Byron Nelson Championship and the World Golf Hall of Fame honored Byron Nelson in 2004 by featuring an exhibit entitled “Byron Nelson: A Champion…A Gentleman. Byron Nelson’s accomplishments as a professional golfer are as impressive as his golf swing. “Through his outstanding accomplishments as a golfer and a humanitarian, Byron Nelson has proved to be an exemplary citizen,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “The time has come for Congress to bestow on this gentleman an honor worthy of his life-long efforts to improve the lives of those less privileged.” To view today’s House floor debate on the bill, please visit the following website: www.house.gov/burgess. This Friday, May 12th, Congressman Michael Burgess will host a press conference at the EDS Byron Nelson Championship media center on the effort to award Byron Nelson the Congressional Gold Medal. For more information or to schedule an interview, please contact Michelle Stein, Communications Director at (202) 225-7772 or via email at Michelle.Stein@mail.house.gov. The Senate companion bill S.2491, is sponsored by U.S. Senator John Cornyn of Texas and is working to the two-thirds, or 67, cosponsors required for a Senate floor vote. For more information on the Senate bill, please contact John Drogin, Press Secretary at (202) 224-0703. http://recap.fednet.net/archive/Buildasx.asp?sProxy=80_hflr050906_033.wmv,80_hflr050906_034.wmv&sTime=00:04:16.0&eTime=00:04:29&duration=00:05:13.0&UserName=repburgtx&sExpire=0Coverage by CBS 11 in Dallas:http://cbs11tv.com/video/?id=9639@ktvt.dayport.com
05.10.2006	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE HEARING "Gasoline: Supply, Price, and Specifications" May 10, 2006 Mr. Chairman, thank you for convening this hearing this morning. And thanks to our panelists for coming before us today. As we are hearing from our constituents on this topic, I think the information provided by the panelists today will help this committee get beyond the rhetoric to the facts. There are a number of factors that contribute to high gasoline prices, including: crude oil prices, refinery capacity, environmental regulations, and consumer demand. As we learned during our hearing on World Crude Supply last week, approximately 55 percent of the cost of a gallon of gasoline is the crude oil. The geography of oil and gas has led our country to place our energy assurance in the hands of leaders such as Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and inflexible or unstable dictators of the Middle East. Last week, several panelists, including Dr. Daniel Yergin, referenced the "risk premium" associated with ongoing concerns about the stability of supply from Russia and the Nigeria Delta Region, as well as the impact of Iran's nuclear posturing and the recent nationalization of energy infrastructure in Bolivia. All of these geopolitical uncertainties make foreign oil unpredictable and unaffordable. The best way to bring down prices is to increase supply while decreasing this risk premium. That means we need to increase not only production, but domestic production. Today, we import nearly 60% of our oil, but we've prohibited exploration in the OCS, in ANWR, and on other federal land. I believe we should allow, and in fact, encourage exploration and production here at home. A barrel of oil coming from the Gulf Coast or the oil shale in Utah is significantly safer than a barrel of oil coming from Iran. That is the surest way to bring down gasoline prices in the short run. However, there is another phenomenon affecting the price of gasoline, especially in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, and that is the transition from methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) and ethanol. Areas, such as the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, which use RFG to meet Clean Air Act requirements during the summer driving season, have been more heavily impacted by this fuel switching. Not only has there been an inadequate supply of ethanol to meet the demand, there have been logistical problems due to the different physical characteristics of the two substances. Unlike gasoline containing MTBE, gasoline containing ethanol is not able to be transported via pipeline, which means that the ethanol must travel via truck and rail and mixed once it arrives to the area in which it will be used. All of these factors further push up the price at the pump. Another factor, affecting the price of gasoline is the patchwork of different "boutique" fuels in use across the country. Non-federal fuel specification requirements reduce the fungibility of gasoline. That means that gasoline that can be used in Lubbock cannot be used in Fort Worth. Gasoline used in Utah cannot be used in Chicago. This limited inability to move gasoline across the country in response to local demand results in increased prices at the pump. I am looking forward to hearing from our panelists today about how gasoline prices are set in general, and specifically how they are impacted by the transition from MTBE to ethanol and by the use of "boutique" fuels. I'd like to thank our panelists again for giving up their time to testify before us this morning. And with that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
05.09.2006	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE HEARING “Department of Energy's Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Proposal” May 9, 2006 Mr. Chairman, Thank you for convening this hearing today. One of my most important responsibilities as a Member of Congress is to ensure that my constituents' tax dollars are being spent wisely. It is for that reason that I look forward to the ongoing debate about our national funding priorities. Secretary Bodmin, thank you for appearing before us this morning. As we begin the Fiscal Year 2007 appropriations cycle, it will be helpful to hear from you about the President's Budget request for the Department of Energy, particularly as this is the first budget year after enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. I am especially interested to hear your testimony on the DOE's oil and natural gas research programs. One of the best ways to decrease our dependence on foreign sources of oil is to make the most out of our domestic oil resources we do have. Research funded through this account, such as enhanced oil recovery using carbon dioxide, can help to increase domestic supply. We've seen that in North Texas with the Barnett Shale -- thirty years ago, the Barnett shale was nothing but rock. Since that time, with the help of a DOE grant, George Mitchell was able to develop the technology to recover the natural gas in the Barnett shale. In 2004, it produced 370 Billion Cubic Feet and total reserves for the Barnett Shale are estimated to be over 500 Trillion Cubic Feet. Now, companies using the technology developed by Mitchell and in North Texas are looking at tapping into several other shale natural gas plays around the country. What began as a small expenditure by the Department of Energy has already brought trillions of cubic feet of natural gas into our domestic supply and has the potential to allow us to tap trillions more. As we face increasing prices for oil, gas, and other petroleum products, this will be extremely important in keeping the prices down. Secretary Bodmin, thank you again for appearing before us this morning. I yield back.
05.04.2006	(Submitted to The Hill – Congress Blog) On May 3, the White House released the Implementation Plan for the National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza, which includes over 300 actions for Federal agencies and other entities to take. As a doctor, I believe that the plan is a great step towards ensuring a timely and appropriate pandemic influenza response at the federal level as well as providing clearer guidance to state and local communities on further needed preparedness efforts. The implementation of an incident management system will enhance federal interagency coordination. The President made it very clear that he will lead the federal government response should a pandemic flu arrive in the United States. HHS Secretary Leavitt will retain authority over public health activities and DHS Secretary Chertoff will handle coordination between agencies and communications with state and local governments. I believe the federal government should do all it can to help prepare for a potentially devastating outbreak, but I want to stress that all of us, as individuals, have a responsibility to be prepared. In addition, the emphasis on employing several interventions at the same time to contain or mitigate a potential pandemic is the right approach. A multilateral approach against pandemic influenza includes addressing the disease in poultry as well as humans. This disease is endemic in birds and cannot be eradicated unless more efforts to control avian influenza in the animal population are enacted. By reducing the incidence of avian flu in poultry, human health is preserved by being less likely to come in contact with avian influenza viruses. The actions listed in the Administration’s implementation plan provide clear goals and practical tasks. Agencies, states, and businesses should soon be able to assess their pandemic plans and integrate these defined actions to strengthen the existing public health infrastructure against pandemic influenza. Above all, Americans have a clear understanding of how the federal government can and will handle a potential pandemic.
05.04.2006	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE HEARING "World Crude Oil Pricing" May 4, 2006 Mr. Chairman, thank you for convening this hearing this morning. As we are hearing from our constituents on this topic, I think the information provided by the panelists today will help this committee get beyond the rhetoric to the facts. The geography of oil and gas has led our country to place our energy assurance in the hands of leaders such as Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and inflexible or unstable dictators of the Middle East. There are ongoing concerns about the stability of supply from Russia and the Nigeria Delta Region. As we'll hear from our panelists today, these uncertainties, along with fears about Iran's nuclear program and the ongoing war on terror, increase the price of oil without All of these geopolitical uncertainties make foreign oil unpredictable and unaffordable. As we heard from the panelists yesterday, the best way to bring down prices is to increase production in the United States. Today, we import nearly 60% of our oil, but we've prohibited exploration in the OCS, in ANWR, and on other federal land. I believe we should allow, and in fact encourage, exploration and production here at home. A barrel of oil coming from the oil shale in Utah is significantly safer than a barrel of oil coming from Iran. I'd like to thank our panelists who are here this morning. According to the most recent figures from EIA the price of crude accounts for between 55 and 60 percent of the price of gasoline, so I look forward to learning from our panelists about the market forces that influence the price of crude oil. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
05.04.2006	Opening Statement Community Health Center Hearing Congressman Michael C. Burgess May 4, 2006 Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this hearing today to a subject that is very important to me. Community Health Centers comprise an important component of our health care system. By providing comprehensive primary health, oral, mental health and substance abuse services to low-income and uninsured patients, health centers fill an important gap in the health care safety net. More that 60 percent of FQHC’s patients have no health insurance and many others are underinsured. It is essential that health clinic exist in every community where need exists. Unfortunately this is not the case in every community, especially the area of Texas I represent. I applaud the President’s commitment to expand community health centers to more needy communities. I have been working over the last several months with Commissioner Roy Brooks who is here today to establish another FQHC in Tarrant County, Texas. Over that time, there have been difficulties but the stakeholders involved understand the importance of establishing a clinic in the SE part of Fort Worth. Chronic diseases such as heart disease and diabetes and some of the highest rates of infant mortality anywhere in the country persist in this corner of Texas and a health center is in great need. And after the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, with so many Louisiana residents taking flight to Texas and especially North Texas, this need has been compounded. I look forward to working with Commissioner Brooks and our friends at HRSA and the National Association of Community Health Centers to make this goal a reality. I thank our witnesses and especially Commissioner Brooks for being here today and discussing this important program. Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
05.03.2006	U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess (TX_26) cosponsored the Tax-Free Health Savings Act, H.R. 5262, to build on the success of Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). HSAs are allowing more Americans to access quality, affordable health care and have more control over their health care costs and decisions. Today, Dr. Burgess, alongside U.S. Department of Treasury Secretary John W. Snow and bill author Deputy Majority Whip Eric Cantor (R-VA), addressed members of the press about the particulars of the bill. “The time is right for Health Savings Accounts in this country,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “When I had my own practice back in Texas, and medical savings accounts were made available, I jumped at the chance to have one. HSAs provide patients with great control over their health care costs bringing more transparency and lower expenses.” The Tax Free Health Savings Act will help to make Health Savings Accounts an even more affordable and attractive health coverage option by: · Increasing HSA contribution limits; · Making premiums for HSA-compatible insurance tax-deductible; · Providing a low-income tax credit the purchase of HSA-compatible insurance; · Allowing employers to make greater HSA contributions for chronically ill employees; · Allowing flexibility to coordinate HSAs with existing health coverage options like Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) and Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAs); · Allowing early retirees to use HSA savings to pay for insurance coverage premiums; · Providing an income tax credit equal to amount of payroll taxes paid on HSA-compatible insurance premiums; · Providing an income tax credit equal to the amount of payroll taxes paid on HSA contributions, and · Providing pre-tax treatment of health care expenses incurred under HSA-compatible health plans before an individual establishes an HSA.
05.03.2006	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE MARKUP A bill to authorize the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to set passenger car fuel economy standards Improvement Act of 2002 May 3, 2006 Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you for holding today's mark-up, as well as the hearing last week on this legislation. We’ve heard testimony from a number of experts, including Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta, on a draft version of the committee print. I'd like to commend Chairman Barton for taking into account the experts’ comments and issues raised by members of the committee in revising the original draft for the product we have before us today. I believe it is important to recognize that regardless today’s outcome on this bill, the American public should be informed that increasing CAFE standards will not immediately bring down gasoline prices. I think by now my fellow committee members know that I believe our best bet to decrease our consumption of gasoline, at least in the immediate future, would be to increase the number of hybrid cars on the road. I've owned my Prius now for about 2 years. I've logged a lot of miles across North Texas during the course of that time and there's no telling how much money I've saved on gasoline. But it is consumer demand and consumer choice that will ultimately determine the "fuel economy" of the vehicles that are actually on America's highways and biways. Today there are more Priuses and other hybrids on the road than there were a year ago, which was more than there were on the road 5 years ago. The market has recognized this increase in demand and now there are even more models available to choose from – including the unofficial car of Texas - hybrid SUVs. The tax incentives for the purchase of hybrid and alternative fueled vehicles in the Energy Bill helped to encourage the purchase of these more fuel efficient cars; but the primary driver behind this trend is consumer demand. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
05.03.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Child Exploitation over the Internet: What Parents, Kids and Congress Need to Know about Child Predators May 3, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for having this important series of hearings. As a father of three, I cannot comprehend how people can commit these types of egregious crimes against children. Like my colleagues, I continue to be outraged by the stories we hear. Just last week, I read another story in my hometown newspaper about a local man charged with sexually abusing children and posting their pictures on the Internet. This is happening in our communities, and it must be stopped. For the sake of our children, America cannot afford to ignore this problem any longer. I view these hearings as having two main goals: 1) educating Congress and the public, and 2) implementing stricter laws for deterrence and retribution. I, for one, have learned a great deal more than what I ever wanted to know about this topic. However, it is crucial for the safety of our children for all of us to know about these evils so that we can help end this abusive and dangerous practice. It is through the brave souls of children like Justin Berry and Masha Allen that we know so much about this secretive world. Masha, thank you for appearing before us today. Your courage and dignity are apparent, and you are an inspiration to us all. I would also like to thank my good friend, Phil Gingrey, for introducing Masha’s Law. When enacted, this law will help to ensure that abused children receive a portion of the justice and retribution they deserve. I am a proud cosponsor of this bill, and I encourage my colleagues to also cosponsor this important legislation. As I mentioned, I feel that the second goal of this hearing should be stricter laws regarding this type of abuse. Congressman Gingrey’s legislation is a good start. I also am aware that the Department of Justice has ideas regarding an increase in penalties for ISPs not reporting “known” violations. While this may be a good start, it is my sincere hope that this hearing will be a catalyst for even more legislation aimed at curbing this problem. Our children are depending upon us to do this. Mr. Chairman, thank you again for your continued leadership and dedication to this grave situation. I look forward to working with you and others on the committee as we continue to seek solutions to this most horrid problem.
04.27.2006	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Hearing on Reauthorizing the Ryan White CARE Act April 27, 2006 The HIV/AIDS epidemic is still prevalent in the United States with 40,000 new infections per year. New therapies and a better understanding of this disease have revolutionized the delivery and quality of care that patients receive. This has also been reflected in the fact that HIV/AIDS patients are living longer and more fulfilling lives. The Ryan White Care Act has and continues to play a vital role in ensuring access to care for people living with HIV/AIDS. As we work on reauthorizing this bill, several factors should be considered. First, on average 25 percent of individuals who are infected with HIV are unaware of their status. In order to slow down this epidemic, it is important for people to know their status so that preventive measures can be taken to reduce further infections. I support more public, rapid HIV testing and measures that would make testing more available and timely. Second, I represent a district in North Texas, which has been experiencing a rise in new HIV/AIDS cases in certain counties, as well as facing the challenge of trying to manage an ongoing, chronic prevalence of the disease. Infection rates are higher in minority populations, such as African American women. I would like this trend in the AIDS epidemic to be better addressed, especially in Fort Worth, which is a city I represent that does demonstrate more cases in minority women. As we take a look at the way that the Ryan White Care Act is structured, it is also important for me to ensure that my constituents in both urban and rural areas can equally be served. Third, more flexibility needs to be built in the system to allow the funding that we appropriate to be maximized and provide a better response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. AIDS cases have sharply increased in the South over the last few years. In addition, the interaction between Ryan White and other sources of funding should promote the Ryan White Care Act as the payer of last resort. Fourth, in order to better serve patients, ADAP (the AIDS Drugs Assistance Programs) should be portable to ensure that patients can get the medications that they need anywhere in the United States. Hurricane Katrina demonstrated that national emergencies can arise unexpectedly. Continuity of care can be accomplished with simple steps such as making ADAP portable. I look forward to working with the committee and you as we evaluate and reorganize the Ryan White Care Act. I would like to thank Chairman Deal for holding this hearing.
04.27.2006	Opening Statement for Congressman Michael C. Burgess April 27, 2006 Pipeline Safety Hearing Thank you, Mr. Chairman for holding this important hearing. When our constituents think of the movement of products and goods across the country -- most of them think about large trucks on the highway carrying everything from ice cream to new cars. Some think of the railroads and others think about the barges that traverse the Mississippi. But few think of the interstate transmission pipelines that transport huge volumes of crude oil, refined products including gasoline and natural gas; until something goes wrong. In 2000, three people died in a natural gas distribution pipeline explosion in Garland, Texas, which is just east of my congressional district. Although this particular pipeline does not fall under federal jurisdiction, it shows just how high the stakes can be and why it is so critical that we have a robust federal pipeline safety program. Fortunately, these types of accidents do not occur frequently. Oil pipelines reported an average of 1.4 deaths per year from 2000 to 2004; gas pipelines reported an average of 17.0 deaths per year during the same period. Congress last updated the federal pipeline safety law in 2002. Among other things, the bill required operators of regulated gas pipelines in densely populated areas to conduct risk analysis and periodic inspections, and to strengthen public education regarding pipeline safety. One of the best ways that we can reduce the risk of harm to the general public is through education. The Danielle Dawn Smalley Foundation, in Chairman Hall's district, is a non-profit organization that conducts these types of education programs for the general public as well as for first responders, including the City of Fort Worth Fire Department which will participate in the program later this year. In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, while the risk of harm from a pipeline accident is far less than driving on I-35 West, we should always strive to do better. I am looking forward to hearing from our witnesses today about how they view the changes made in 2002 as well as their suggestions for us as we move forward with reauthorization during the 109th Congress.
04.25.2006	Communications Opportunity, Promotion, and Enhancement Act of 2006Statement by Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26)April 25, 2006 Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you for your leadership in bringing this important bill forward for a mark-up. I would also like to acknowledge the hard work of the Telecommunications Subcommittee Chairman Fred Upton, Committee Vice-Chairman Chip Pickering and the bipartisan support of Rep. Bobby Rush. This is truly a bipartisan product that was forged together after countless hours of negotiation. Its recent passage out of the Telecommunications Subcommittee by a vote of 27-4 only underscores this point. Mr. Chairman, I would like to begin my remarks talking about a community in my district back home in North Texas – that community is Keller, Texas. A very forward-thinking town with over 36,000 people, Keller is home to Verizon’s first FiOS TV operation. What has happened since FiOS TV entered the Keller market? Prices for cable TV are now about 25 percent lower than they were before their entry into the video market. Consumers now have a choice and over 30 percent of the market has signed up for the service. Clearly, people want choice. The citizens of Keller not only have access to one of the best telecommunications networks in the world and a choice of providers, but they also get better services at competitive prices. What’s even more intriguing is that about one-third of the new Verizon video customers were not previously cable consumers. Effectively, these customers are now a new source of franchise fee revenue. I realize not every community is Keller, Texas. This past year, the State of Texas passed and signed into law S.B. 5 which created a statewide franchise system putting Texas at the forefront of video competition. In fact I’ve spoken with the mayor’s and city managers from several communities such as Fort Worth, Denton, Highland Village and North Richland Hills from across the 26th District expressing their concerns about provisions in the bill we are marking up. Their concerns range from the use of public rights-of-way to the enforcement of local consumer protection rules. These communities and many others, throughout the State of Texas, fought hard for several provisions contained in the Texas passed law, S.B. 5 and are justifiably concerned with any federal legislation that could change these provisions. I do believe my fellow Texan and Chairman has made sure these concerns have been heard and acknowledged. Tomorrow, when we begin the mark-up, I will be asking you Mr. Chairman for a colloquy to address some of these specific concerns for clarification. I would also like to ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to submit comments prepared by Lyle H. Dresher, City Manager of Keller, Texas on his community’s experience with new telecommunications technology and its affect on competition in the market. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
04.06.2006	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Hearing on Project Bioshield Reauthorization Issues April 6, 2006 We have a duty to protect American citizens against terrorism, as well as biological and nuclear threats. However, an inherent challenge of preparedness is the fact that we are dealing with a moving target. It is hard to predict which type of national threats loom ahead and when they might emerge. On the other hand, certain similarities between threats exist such as the macro impact and disruption to people’s everyday lives. In addition, a need for medical care and aid is expected to quickly be available. Project Bioshield serves a critical role in supporting the development of medical countermeasures and the procurement of such treatments. As we look at reauthorizing this program, we need to evaluate whether we are adequately building our nation’s biodefense. The September 11 attacks on our country brought a greater focus on terrorism. However, infectious diseases have continued to confront us and their prevalence has increased over time. We have faced many over the last ten years, including West Nile virus, anthrax, SARS, and now avian flu. Therefore, the emergence of zoonotic diseases and the lasting impact they can bear cannot be overlooked. Infectious diseases are debilitating to people and economies. In addition, they have the capacity to overwhelm the current health care system. As we move forward, it is important to address whether Project Bioshield can equally protect us against both terrorism and biological threats. Can certain medical countermeasures be efficient against numerous threats as we build our Strategic National Stockpile? I would like to thank Chairman Deal for holding this hearing and look forward to hearing your testimonies.
04.03.2006	In order to foster today’s youth to fully explore their potential, it is a worthy legacy to build healthy and safe communities for children to grow up in. In recognition of the National Public Health Week, many events will take place across the nation to focus this year on “Designing Health Communities: Raising Healthy Kids.” The role that preparedness plays in this initiative should be highlighted and incorporated alongside with other public health issues that are discussed this week. Recent natural disasters underscore the need to have preparedness measures in place at the local level to respond to such crises. I have played an active role in coordinating local, state, and federal responses following Hurricane Katrina and Rita. However, these efforts are no substitute for individual preparedness. Many resources are available to guide families as they explore the best way to plan for emergencies. For example, the US Department of Homeland Security website, www.ready.gov, can guide you as you develop your own plan. Parents should also discuss with their children how to communicate and reunite if a disaster occurs while they are in school. Basic supplies should be kept on hand such as nonperishable food, water, a first aid kit, list of medications, and emergency contact information as well. Another emerging global health threat, avian influenza, is an additional reminder that preserving healthy communities can only be achieved with every citizen’s active participation. Avian flu is widespread in birds, but not in humans. This year alone, animal and human outbreaks have been reported in over 30 countries in Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa since January. To date, 105 confirmed human deaths have been attributed to the H5N1 avian flu virus. Containing this disease in birds should be a number one priority as well as continuing efforts to prepare our country. Schools, businesses, and families can contribute to ensure that a pandemic does not evolve and their actions minimize the spread of disease. A good resource is pandemicflu.gov. In addition, preparedness on the state level is happening as can be demonstrated with the pandemic planning summit that took place on March 27. Healthy and safe communities are built with the involvement of every concerned citizen. It is never too late to integrate preparedness into our everyday lives.
03.29.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD Public Reporting of Hospital Acquired Infection Rates: Empowering Consumers, Saving Lives March 29, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for having this important hearing. Also, I would like to give a special welcome and thank you to two North Texans who were gracious enough to travel to DC to testify before us: Dr. Jennifer Daley and Dr. Robert Haley. Dr. Daley is the Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer at Tenet Healthcare Corporation in Dallas, while Dr. Haley is with the Division of Epidemiology at Southwestern Medical School at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. This is considered one of the leading medical institutions in the nation, and I am proud to have established a health fellow program with Southwestern. In fact, my current health fellow had you as a professor last year. Dr. Daley and Dr. Haley, thank you for being with us today. As a former Chief of Staff for Lewisville Medical Center in Lewisville, Texas, I understand all too well the dangers associated with nosocomial infections. Over 90,000 Americans die every year because of the infections they contract while staying in a hospital. As Members of Congress, it is our duty to utilize effective oversight methods to ensure that the healthcare needs are adequately met and that patients have the tools available to make informed decisions. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this hearing in which we can address some of these important concerns regarding our healthcare system. I look forward to working with you and the rest of the committee to achieve transparency throughout the medical system.
03.29.2006	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE MARK-UP H.R. 4127, The Data Accountability and Trust Act (DATA) March 29, 2006 Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you for holding today's mark-up on this important legislation. Reports this year and last about the theft of personal information from databases at high-profile companies such as ChoicePoint and Bank of America have underscored the burgeoning nature of the crime of identity theft. I commend Subcommittee Chairman Stearns for his leadership on this issue. First in the hearings that he held last spring in the Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection Subcommittee, and then with this bipartisan Data Security legislation. Unfortunately, the Dallas Fort Worth Metroplex has one of the highest rates of identity theft across this nation. This legislation will help to combat this threat by requiring businesses and entities that hold personal information to prevent unauthorized access to that data. Additionally, the legislation requires companies to notify consumers in the event that their personal data is breached. The bipartisan Managers Amendment will also strengthen internal audit processes, which will help guard against insider threat. Thank you, again Mr. Chairman for your work on this legislation.
03.16.2006	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, MD (TX-26) Hearing on Legislative Proposals to Promote Electronic Health Records and Smarter Health Information Systems March 16, 2006 Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing today. For years, medicine, technology vendors, patient advocacy groups and policy makers have dipped their toe into the HIT waters. All too often, the temperature is to none of the stakeholders liking. HIT and Electronic Health Records do have a lot of promise: easily accessible and sharable data, more lengthy patient histories regardless of venue of care are just two positive aspects. But done wrong, medicine will turn its back on new technologies, fearing complexity or a cost that is too great to venture. I believe that the approach taken by President Bush and Secretary Leavitt though ONCHIT and AHIC are reasonable and measure approaches and I think that the approach taken by Chairman Deal and Nancy Johnson of the Ways and Means Committee raise important issues. Based upon these initiatives, I hope the panel will be willing to address the following issues: Has ONCHIT made reasonable progress toward developing consistent standards for EHR and HIT systems? In further developing these standards, are their examples that can be highlighted? In regard to platforms, what have providers found most useful? What changes, if any should be made to patient privacy standards to ensure ease of data sharing, but at the same time providing adequate safeguards to sensitive patient information? In the realm of mental health, are there additional challenges? I hope these and other issues will be addressed here today. It is essential that providers feel like they have buy in to whatever standards we develop administratively or via law. I look forward to the discussion here today.
03.15.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess participated in events supporting Texas Water Day coordinated by Texas Water Conservation Association and the Texas Water Development Board. The focus of the event is on spreading the word on Capitol Hill about pressing needs concerning water in Texas. “I trust that my Texas colleagues have benefited as much as I have from today’s office visits,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “As we all know, water supply issues in the State of Texas and the nation present significant challenges ahead. To meet these challenges head on, we all need to support a local-state-federal partnership that can build on the incredible planning efforts of the regional water planning groups and the state.” In 1997, the Texas Legislature passed innovative water planning management legislation, S.B. 1, which established a unique bottom-up regional approach to water planning of both surface and ground water resources. The Texas Water plan ensures that the state will have a comprehensive strategy to meet increasing demands on water supply, water infrastructure, and wastewater treatment as population grows. Last year, Congress Burgess introduced The Integrated Water Resources Management Act, H.R. 1368, which sets forth the State of Texas' priorities for reauthorization of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). Currently, the Senate is debating WRDA. E.G. Rod Pittman, Chairman of the Texas Water Development Board said “We appreciate Congressman Burgess' efforts to highlight Texas water issues, particularly in regards to reauthorization of the Water Resources Development Act. H.R. 1368 provides a concise and comprehensive summary of Texas' interests in partnering with the Corps of Engineers to meet the water challenges of the future.” Specifically, Representative Michael Burgess’ legislation would: Allow the Corps to target federal technical assistance funds to State priority water management issues and better respond to state needs. Allow local entities to provide the required non-federal cost share for water projects through in-kind services rather than cash contributions. Allow Texas to take credit for its proactive efforts in regional water planning. Reduce the amount of time required for water project completion, which in turn, reduces the total cost of the project. Provide for possible reallocation of water storage, which could preclude the need for major water supply development in some circumstances. Establish a general authority for the Corps to assist state and local governments in planning, engineering, design, and construction of water supply, wastewater, water quality, and environmental projects. Give the Corps the flexibility that it needs to assist the State of Texas to implement the State Water Plan. “Leveraging local, state and federal resources will ensure a reliable water supply to support a healthy economy and vibrant environment for our great State,” said Congressman Burgess. “Texas has established itself as a leader in water planning issues, and the Integrated Water Resources Management Act sets forth Texas' priorities for Water Resources Development Act reauthorization.”
03.15.2006	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) Hearing on Health Care Price Transparency March 15, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman for holding this important hearing. Outside of terrorism and the War in Iraq, the affordability of health care is among most American’s chief concerns. One reason why health care does cost so much is that it is difficult for the consumer to influence the price at any point. A myriad of payers, government and third parties have obscured the cost of care over time to the point where it is even difficult for practitioners to know how much services cost. Today, we’ll have some legislative options presented to us that would ostensibly increase transparency in the health care market. It is my opinion that we need to study this issue more before mandating anything of stakeholders in the market place, but hopefully some options and initiatives already underway will be brought to light here today. I want to welcome a constituent of mine here today as well. Bill Gedwed, Chairman and CEO of UICI, a major employer in my district is here today to discuss an consumer information initiative the company has built all on its own. Their web based tool, HealthMarket, have given UICI’s members access to more than 430,000 medical professionals, 4,000 hospitals, and 26,000 other resources, such as labs, MIR centers, and medical equipment providers. HealthMarket offers price transparency for more than 20,000 procedures and represents a truly inspirational model for what we will discuss here today.
03.15.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD Subcommittee on Energy and Air Quality Subcommittee Hearing: Status of the Yucca Mountain Project March 15, 2006 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for having this important hearing. A growing economy, such that of the United States, requires energy to fuel our homes and businesses. According the United States Energy Information Agency, electricity generation worldwide is expected to nearly double between 2002 and 2025. Nuclear energy provides a reliable, low cost source of electricity and currently accounts for 20 percent of our electricity nationwide. Ensuring that we have a safe, adequate, and long-term plan for storage of nuclear waste is paramount and will only become more important as we look to nuclear power as an emissions-free source of electricity. The Department of Energy and Congress have been discussing and studying Yucca Mountain as a potential permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel for nearly two decades. The repository was originally scheduled to be open and accepting fuel by January 1998, but has still not broken ground. I look forward to an update on the status of the Yucca Mountain project, particularly in light of the Administration's proposed Global Nuclear Energy Partnership (GNEP). Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this crucial hearing in which we can address some of these essential concerns regarding nuclear facilities. Thank you
03.10.2006	Michael C. Burgess, M.D., U.S. Congressman, 26th district of Texas, was honored by the South West Transit Association (SWTA) with the organization’s 2006 Legislator of the Year Award. The SWTA Legislator of the Year award recognizes a member of the U.S. House or Senate who has significantly advanced the interest of public transportation in the previous year. The award was presented to Congressman Burgess at the annual SWTA legislative briefing breakfast in Washington, D.C. on March 7 by Dick Ruddell, SWTA secretary-treasurer and president of The Fort Worth Transportation Authority, and by SWTA president Patrick Judge, public affairs director of the New Orleans Regional Transit Authority. Burgess was nominated by Ruddell for his role in passage of the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) in August 2005 and for his support of public transportation nationwide and in Texas. “Congressman Burgess is a tireless worker for transportation interests in Washington and has increased the level of awareness of public transit in the communities in his district,” said Ruddell. “Those of us in public transportation could not ask for a better partner than Congressman Burgess,” Ruddell added. Ruddell said that Burgess was instrumental in passage of the transportation bill that will assure funding for transportation over the next six years, strongly supported much higher funding levels in the FY06 transportation appropriations bill, and introduced new streamlining provisions for appropriations to speed the delivery of federal transportation funds. In his own Texas district, Congressman Burgess initiated an annual “Transportation Summit” that provides education and discussion of issues with city and county officials, universities and policy makers in Denton, Tarrant, Cooke and Dallas counties, the areas where most of the future congestion in North Central Texas is projected. Burgess arranges for the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee Chair Don Young to lead some of the discussions, providing his district with a broad perspective of transportation issues, according to Ruddell. “At these summits, Congressman Burgess always involves public transit among the issues and openly supports enhancement and expansion of public transportation for his district.” In accepting the award, Congressman Burgess said, “I’m very grateful for this honor. Transit plays an important role in addressing air quality and congestion issues. I’m honored by this recognition and pledge my continued support for improved transportation infrastructure. I particularly value the participation and support of The Fort Worth Transportation Authority and the Denton County Transit Authority. Increasing the availability of public transportation throughout the U.S. is important, and I’m pleased that my own North Central Texas region is playing a leadership role to expand this important mode of transportation in a state that has traditionally not been as supportive of public transit options.” Congressman Burgess was first elected to the House of Representatives in 2002 and served on the House Transportation and Infrastructure and Government Reform and Science committees. Re-elected in 2004, Congressman Burgess is now a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee for the 109th Congress. The EC Committee’s principal responsibility includes a broad area of legislative oversight including health, air quality, environmental health, the supply and delivery of energy, interstate commerce and transportation. Burgess holds a bachelor’s and master’s degree from North Texas State University in Denton, as well as a master’s in management, from UT Dallas and an M.D. from the University of Texas Medical School in Houston. The founder of a private practice, Obstetrics and Gynecology Associates, Dr. Burgess served as President of the Denton County Medical Society. The South West Transit Association is a regional association representing the interests of transit agencies and related organizations in Arizona, Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.
03.10.2006	Rep. Michael Burgess and Energy Deputy Secretary Sell at the Home Depot in Flower Mound, Texasto Discuss Economic Benefits of Energy Efficiency On Friday, March 10, 2006, Department of Energy (DOE) Deputy Secretary Clay Sell and Representative Michael Burgess (R-26th) will visit the Home Depot in Flower Mound, Texas, to discuss the economic benefits of energy efficiency as well as the economic significance of President Bush’s newly announced Advanced Energy and American Competitiveness Initiatives. Congressman Burgess will discuss the energy efficiency decisions he and his wife have made recently during the construction of their new home. WHO: Deputy Secretary of Energy Clay SellTexas Rep. Michael Burgess WHAT: Press conference to discuss the economic benefits of energy efficiencyMedia availability will immediately follow press conference WHEN: Friday, March 10, 200610:45 AM (local time) WHERE: Home Depot852 International ParkwayFlower Mound, TX 75022 Some of the energy efficient decisions made by Rep. Burgess:· Installed smart thermostats· Double pane Low E windows· Energy efficient ducts· Zoned air conditioning· Foam insulation in the walls· Purchased Energy Star appliances for kitchen and laundry room
03.08.2006	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) participated in the mark-up of “The Prevention of Fraudulent Access to Phone Records Act.” The measure passed through the Energy and Commerce Committee by a voice vote. Currently, the method by which telephone records are usually obtained from wireless companies is referred to as ‘pretexting’ which usually entails someone impersonating a phone customer and asking for access to personal files. Pretexters sell your information to people who may use it to get credit in your name, steal your assets, or to investigate or sue you. Pretexting is against the law. “This bipartisan measure will ensure that our constituent’s private phone records are not available to the highest bidder,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “The legislation will strengthen the security requirements for proprietary customer calling information held by telephone companies –our aim to protect constituents’ private records.” In addition to today’s mark-up, Energy and Commerce Committee held a hearing on February 1, 2006 on access to phone records and launched an investigation of websites that offer this data. To date, committee investigators have identified individuals behind twenty-two of the websites that may offer criminals, stalkers and any other paying customer the detailed records of a person's private telephone calls. Protect YourselfEven though the laws are on your side, it’s wise to take an active role in protecting your information. · Don’t give out personal information on the phone, through the mail or over the Internet unless you’ve initiated the contact or know who you’re dealing with. Pretexters may pose as representatives of survey firms, banks, Internet service providers and even government agencies to get you to reveal your SSN, mother’s maiden name, financial account numbers and other identifying information. Legitimate organizations with which you do business have the information they need and will not ask you for it. · Be informed. Ask your financial institutions for their policies about sharing your information. Ask them specifically about their policies to prevent pretexting. · Pay attention to your statement cycles. Follow up with your financial institutions if your statements don’t arrive on time. · Review your statements carefully and promptly. Report any discrepancies to your institution immediately. · Alert family members to the dangers of pretexting. Explain that only you, or someone you authorize, should provide personal information to others. · Keep items with personal information in a safe place. Tear or shred your charge receipts, copies of credit applications, insurance forms, bank checks and other financial statements that you’re discarding, expired charge cards and credit offers you get in the mail. · Add passwords to your credit card, bank and phone accounts. Avoid using easily available information like your mother’s maiden name, your birth date, the last four digits of your SSN or your phone number, or a series of consecutive numbers. · Be mindful about where you leave personal information in your home, especially if you have roommates or are having work done in your home by others. · Find out who has access to your personal information at work and verify that the records are kept in a secure location. · Order a copy of your credit report from the three nationwide consumer reporting companies every year. An amendment to the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act requires each of the major nationwide consumer reporting companies to provide you with a free copy of your credit reports, at your request, once every 12 months. To order your free annual report from one or all of the nationwide consumer reporting companies, visit www.annualcreditreport.com, call toll-free 1-877-322-8228, or complete the Annual Credit Report Request Form and mail it to: Annual Credit Report Request Service, P.O. Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281. You can print the order form from ftc.gov/credit. Do not contact the three nationwide consumer reporting companies individually. They provide free annual credit reports only through www.annualcreditreport.com, 1-877-322-8228, and Annual Credit Report Request Service, P.O. Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281. Your credit report contains information on where you work and live, the credit accounts that have been opened in your name, how you pay your bills and whether you’ve been sued, arrested or have filed for bankruptcy. Checking your report annually can help you catch mistakes and fraud before they wreak havoc on your personal finances.
03.08.2006	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD The Silicosis Story: Mass Tort Screening and the Public Health March 8, 2006 Thank you, Mr. Chairman for having this important hearing. While today we are focusing on the public health issues related to the mass screening and diagnosis of silicosis, I strongly believe that it is the role and responsibility of this entire committee to address the imminent health care needs of our nation. Mr. Chairman, thank you for bringing yet another specific health related issue to not only this committee’s attention, but also to the public’s attention. As a physician for over twenty five years, I understand the importance and need for an efficient and effective medical screening process. Thousands upon thousands of lives have been saved due to medical screening processes that were able to detect illnesses and other serious maladies. This system relies upon trained physicians and other medical personnel to perform reliable diagnostic evaluations. Without this crucial element, the screening system falls apart, thus, jeopardizing the health and welfare of the public that was meant to be protected. The situation before us today exemplifies the harm that can occur when corruption and greed overtakes the system. On June 30, 2005, a Federal judge in South Texas, Judge Janis Graham Jack, issued an opinion regarding the deplorable situation before us today. While the case was ultimately dismissed and remanded in part due to lack of subject-matter jurisdiction, Judge Jack noted in her opinion serious allegations of fraud resulting from a mere 12 doctors diagnosing over 10,000 cases of silicosis in Texas, Mississippi, Georgia and Alabama. While OSHA reported that there has been a steady decline of silicosis, due to these few doctors’ diagnosis, Mississippi alone went from 40 cases reported in one year to 6000 cases in the next. This would have been considered an occupational outbreak, yet not one single person contacted the CDC. Judge Jack summed it up best by concluding that “these diagnoses were about litigation rather than health care” and “were driven by neither health nor justice but were manufactured for money.” Today, three of the twelve doctors will have the opportunity to present their side of the story to Congress. I sincerely hope that Dr. James Ballard, Dr. Andrew Harron, and Dr. Ray Harron will take this opportunity and explain to the nation how they were able to diagnosis so many patients with silicosis when 8,000 treating doctors involved in the actual treatment of the patients did not see this disease. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this hearing, and I look forward to working with you and the rest of the committee to achieve real results for the public health and welfare of this country. I yield back the remainder of my time.
03.08.2006	Opening statement Mark-Up “The Prevention of Fraudulent Access to Phone Records Act” March 8, 2006 Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Mr. Chairman, thank you and Ranking Member Dingell for bringing forward this important piece of bipartisan legislation. I am a proud cosponsor of “The Prevention of Fraudulent Access to Phone Records Act” and I look forward to its prompt passage by this committee. This measure is needed to ensure that our constituent’s private phone records are not available to the highest bidder. Congress expressly prohibited pretexting for financial data under Gramm-Leach-Bliley, but that law does not include telephone records. Fortunately, this bill closes that loop hole by prohibiting pretexting for telephone records and strengthening the security requirements for proprietary customer calling information held by telephone companies. Once again Mr. Chairman, thank you for your leadership on this bill and our constituents will all benefit from these new protections of our private records.
03.01.2006	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) Medicare Part D Implementation March 1, 2006 Mr. Chairman, thank you for convening this hearing today. We’ve all probably heard from our constituents about certain problems with Medicare Part D and we’ve read the negative news stories. Some of the problems that we’ll talk about today are substantial and we need to determine solutions quickly. To ensure continued participation by pharmacists and confidence for beneficiaries, I hope to work with you Dr. McClellan to help make Part D a success. In April, I’ll be holding 5 Medicare Town Halls to help beneficiaries sign up for this important benefit and I would urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to hold these events in their district as well. I think it is reprehensible that some are trying to scare seniors instead of help them understand this new benefit. I think with all the bad news, we lose sight of the good news and there is plenty of it. To date, Medicare Part D has enrolled over 20 million beneficiaries and approximately one million prescriptions are being filled every day. Enrollment in Part D is increasing by half a million beneficiaries a week. 77 year old Charlotte O’Conner from Sebastian, Florida was quoted in her local paper saying, "I'm surprised," O'Connor, who has been purchasing her medications through a pharmacy in Canada. "Although I was happy with what I was doing, someone told me it's better to go through Medicare because I could save even more." And it is better because instead of going to Canada or some other unsafe source of drugs, seniors now have inexpensive coverage to buy their medicine from American pharmacies. It’s important to get this right, and I am happy that Dr. McClellan is here to highlight CMS’ efforts to fix some of these problems. Most importantly, I want to know how CMS will be ensuring that plans pay pharmacists on time and accurately. Several pharmacists have sent Medicare beneficiaries home with a temporary supply of medications when problems have persisted with drug plan enrollment that cannot be resolved immediately. Some of these pharmacists report they have given out thousands of dollars in free medications with no reimbursement in site. I look forward to the conversation we will be having today and I also welcome Dennis Song, a pharmacist from my district who will be providing testimony on the second panel.
02.15.2006	The following is the opening statement by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) during the Energy and Commerce Full Committee Hearing "The Administration's FY '07 Health Care Priorities." Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt served as the sole witness. share: f t First, let me thank Secretary Leavitt for taking the time to be here today to discuss the President’s FY07 Budget, in particular how it affects HHS. I wholeheartedly support the President’s focus on health care issues as highlighted in his State of the Union address. This upcoming legislative session gives us an opportunity to reform health care by developing a system more attune to market forces and consumer demands. I am especially interested in working with you, Mr. Secretary, and you Mr. Chairman on how we can increase transparency in the health care market as it relates to quality and cost. By integrating transparency and consumer driven health coverage we can effect a truly transformative change to the American health care system. Mr. Secretary, I believe that your initiative on health information technology is the right approach to this issue. If facilities operate independently and with systems that are unable to cross-communicate, investments are made in vain. The health care infrastructure can be strengthened and a proper framework for the adoption of health information technology is necessary. Another issue that I would like for you to touch on is how best we, as members of Congress, can work with you to build a more rational reimbursement methodology for doctors and other providers under Medicare within this year’s budget. This has been a problem that has persisted for too long and only gets worse and worse for physicians each year. I would like to talk to you about how to develop a system that pays physicians adequately and whether our financing of Medicare in totality supports our stated goals for the program. In addition, I would appreciate any additional information you can provide on the allowance for avian flu and emergency preparedness. With the recent spread of avian flu to Africa and Italy, our efforts need to be increased to combat this global health threat. I look forward to your testimony and working with the committee on taking a closer look at the President’s budget on health care.
02.10.2006	As you frantically search for that last-minute Valentine’s Day card or shop for yummy chocolates, you should take note of something very near and dear to you and your loved ones – your heart. Since leaving his medical practice in Texas in 2002 to run for Congress, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) has seen his fair share of medical emergencies back home and in Washington. These instances brought to his attention a serious need to improve public access to life-saving equipment, specifically Automated External Defibrillators commonly referred to as “AEDs.” In August of 2004, during the middle of a town hall meeting in Texas, Congressman Burgess administered cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) on 57 year old Tim Ryan who was suffering from ventricular tachycardia until emergency personnel arrived. When the paramedics arrived, they hooked up a heart monitor and then pulled out an AED giving three shocks to stabilize Mr. Ryan. “Ventricular tachycardia is very, very dangerous. It’s sudden death if it’s not treated immediately,” recalled Rep. Burgess. “It was at that moment that I learned that the new AEDs, unlike the old-style machines I was trained on, were ready for use almost immediately.” AEDs are used to deliver an electrical shock to persons in cardiac arrest and have been shown to decrease mortality when used in conjunction with CPR. Defibrillators are easy to use, portable and fast becoming the standard of care in public places. “Since that fateful moment, I have been a strong advocate for ensuring that AEDs be placed in U.S. Capitol Complex,” stated Congressman Burgess. “Our constituents, family and friends roam these halls, and I believe having the best access to life-saving instruments like AEDs is essential.” During 2005, Rep. Burgess sent a series of letters to Office of the Architect of the Capitol (AOC), Office of the Attending Physician (OAP), and relevant House Committee Chairmen, stressing the need for immediate action in placing the AEDs throughout the Capitol Complex. “The OAP is deeply appreciative for the strong support Congressman Burgess gave to implementing the PAD program at the U.S. Capitol,” stated OAP staff. Now, the AOC has begun the installation of the AEDs in the U.S. Capitol and will work their way through the entire complex including the House and Senate Office Buildings, Botanic Garden Conservatory, U.S. Capitol Police Headquarters, several satellite buildings and outlying support facilities. “I am grateful to the Architect of the Capitol and the Attending Physicians offices for their work in managing this program,” said Congressman Burgess. “Their efforts reflect their true regard in caring not only for Members of Congress but also for those individuals who seek to visit the nation’s Capitol.” The Public Access Defibrillator (PAD) Program will be medically managed and maintained by the U.S. Public Health Service/Federal Occupational Health (FOH). FOH has designed a tailored AED program and site specific protocols that incorporate guidelines from the American Heart Association and the Department of Health and Human Services' Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation Programs in Federal Facilities. The placement of AED cabinets in buildings throughout the Capitol complex will begin shortly. When all AED cabinets and signs have been placed in a building, AEDs will be activated. Training for those interested in becoming a Lay Responder/Rescuer (LRR) is offered by the OAP and is targeted to provide the skills necessary to competently assess the status of a victim, administer CPR if necessary, and to properly operate an AED. “Some of my staff and I took the AED training course last fall,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “The training is solid and gives participants an opportunity to learn the skills necessary to handle a medical emergency with confidence. We are all just minutes away from being able to save a life with use of an AED.” The effectiveness of this program relies on having trained employees to use the AED in the event of an emergency. Most victims of cardiac arrest do not survive if the AED shock is delayed more than five minutes. Therefore, it is important to have trained employees in each building where AEDs are placed. “Learning to use and AED and give CPR are skills that are invaluable and could save a friend, co-worker, or stranger’s life,” OAP staff said. Certification CPR/AED classes are routinely offered by the Office of the Attending Physician, and are generally only four hours in length. If you are interested and work in a Congressional Office please call (202) 225-5421 for more information. All other offices should contact your training coordinator for additional information. In North Texas For more information or questions concerning prevention or treatment of heart disease, please call the Texas chapter of the American Heart Association (AHA) at (512) 433-7220 or the Chisholm Trail Chapter located in Fort Worth at 817-335-9137.
02.08.2006	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) became an original cosponsor on a resolution recognizing the NASCAR-HBCU Partnership, a partnership between NASCAR and Historically Black Colleges and Universities that will provide new opportunities for minorities to participate in the automotive industry. The resolution was authored by North Carolina Congressman Melvin L. Watt. The Partnership will focus on developing and operating a program to increase the number and quality of job opportunities for African American and minority students in key racing and other related automotive business activities including automotive engineering and technology, automotive safety, sports marketing, and other automotive industry areas. “When I first head about this partnership, I knew I wanted to lend my support,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “With the Texas Motor Speedway in my district, it was only natural that I should cosponsor the resolution which encourages minority participation in the automotive industry. I hope it spurs interest on the local level.” The U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that there are 1.3 million automotive technicians currently employed. However, industry figures confirm that an additional 50,000 technicians are needed to fill open positions each year. The National Automotive Dealers Association reports that 57 percent of their dealers’ operating profit is generated by their parts and service departments, that dealers have difficulty finding qualified technicians and that 42 percent of all dealer technicians have been engaged in that line of work less than one year. Specific activities of the Partnership will include: A) Increasing the number and quality of job opportunities for minority students with NASCAR in key racing and other related automotive business activities through the NASCAR Technical Training Institute and the NASCAR Diversity Internship Program; B) Providing employment opportunities with NASCAR, including internships, full and part time jobs for college students and post graduate job placement for undergraduates and graduates at partnering HBCUs; C) Developing HBCU programs to enhance minority students’ awareness, access and participation in NASCAR fields and other related automotive industries; D) Enhancing the funding of targeted job development activities by partnering HBCUs and generate support for efforts to develop curriculum in sports marketing, finance, human resource management and other automotive industry areas.
02.06.2006	The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) concerning President Bush’s FY 2007 Budget proposal: “I was pleased to see that President Bush's FY 2007 Budget continues to focus our federal resources on key priorities such as securing the homeland, winning the War on Terror, and encouraging economic growth while constraining non-essential spending. The President's Budget also includes a number of new proposals that seek to maintain America's global competitiveness. Specifically, I support the President's proposal to allow greater Health Savings Account portability and to increase utilization of health information technology. These proposals will help control ever-increasing health care costs. The new Solar America Initiative will increase the diversity of our fuel supply and reduce our dependency on foreign energy sources. Increased research and development funding for energy related nanotechnology research will also help spur innovation in the energy sector. President Bush also demonstrates his commitment to America’s infrastructure by requesting increased funds for federal highways; an increase that could translate into more federal dollars for Texas highways. I look forward to the next step in the budget process where Congress reviews the President’ Budget in more detail.”
02.04.2006	“I commend the International Atomic Energy Agency's decision to refer Iran to the United Nations Security Council for its resumption of nuclear enrichment activities. Diplomacy is always the first course of action, and I am hopeful that Iran will receive this clear message from the international community. It is imperative that globally, we speak with one voice on this issue; a nuclear Iran threatens the security not only of the U.S. and Israel but also of all democracies around the world.”
02.02.2006	I am glad that the House completed work on the Deficit Reduction Act. We kept our promise to our constituents that we will continue to restrain federal spending and to reform federal programs. Congress is focusing on working wiser with taxpayer dollars. The Deficit Reduction Act includes $40 billion in mandatory savings and a critical provision that averts deep cuts in physician payment rates. These cuts would have been damaging to the medical profession and access for Medicare beneficiaries, and I am perhaps most pleased that we are now able to ensure that our doctors are paid for the services they provide patients. While I’m pleased I was able to push through a freeze for 2006, I believe a substantial, long term fix to reimbursements will allow physicians to devote their full attention once again to the profession they have committed themselves to and that is patient care. In all, the passage of the Deficit Reduction Act was not just a piece of legislation for today, but a move toward positive reforms of federal programs in the future.
02.02.2006	Today, the Republican Members of the House of Representatives vote in their leadership elections. The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) concerning those elections: “As always, my fellow Republicans and I thoughtfully deliberated the tough votes for selecting the leadership of the Party. Together, we have voted in favor of tested Members who have shown they are dedicated to the ideas and principles that govern the GOP. More importantly, these leaders are committed to making the House of Representatives truly the people’s House. With our new leadership, we move forward in crafting legislation that works to keep America strong. Our selection for Majority Leader is Rep. John Boehner of Ohio. A long standing leader of our Party, I congratulate Majority Leader Boehner for his victory and pledge to work with him in carving a new, bold plan for our Party. During the 104th and 105th Congresses, Rep. John Boehner served as House Republican Conference Chairman and was a powerful voice in the fight to force Washington to stick to the strict spending limits in the Balanced Budget Act. Most recently, he has served as Chairman of the House Education, Labor and Workforce Committee where he helped deliver on President George W. Bush’s promise to reform America’s education system. He brings a renewing spirit of reform to our Party that will galvanize fresh ideas to move positive legislation forward. Another leadership position went to a good friend, Rep. Adam Putnam of Florida who was selected as the House Republican Policy Committee Chairman. This position is critical in brainstorming, designing, crafting and pushing policy initiatives for the Party. Currently, I chair the Medicare and Medicaid Services Subcommittee of the Policy Committee, and I have seen first hand how Adam’s leadership and intelligence can move effective policy measures forward. Now in his third term, Rep. Adam Putnam serves on the powerful House Rules Committee and the Budget Committee. Before his appointment to the Rules Committee, Congressman Putnam served as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Technology, Information Policy, Intergovernmental Relations and the Census. In that position, he led the drive to secure our nation’s infrastructure against acts of cyber terrorism. His ascension to the Chairmanship made Congressman Putnam the youngest Subcommittee Chairman in the 108th Congress and one of the youngest in the history of the United States Congress. He is articulate and driven, and it will be an honor to work side-by-side with him on legislative priorities. Rounding out the leadership positions are Majority Whip Roy Blunt of Missouri, Deputy Whip Eric Cantor of Virginia and Conference Chairwoman Deborah Pryce of Ohio. All three of these Members have dedicated countless hours to unifying and encouraging our Party. I am honored that I will have the opportunity to work alongside these leaders, both new and old alike, as we tackle the difficult congressional calendar ahead. It is through these strong leaders that decisive and courageous measures will come forth that will truly benefit the nation.”
02.02.2006	“February marks the month-long celebration of the contributions of African Americans to our country. This month all Americans should strive to learn more about the dedication of the black community to our military, business, cultural arts, athletics and government. In the last year, we have seen the death of two most prominent African American leaders, Rosa Parks and Coretta Scott King. Both of these remarkable women showed courage against great adversities and were the harbingers of equality for all mankind. Black History Month dates back to 1926 when it was first organized as Negro History Week by Carter G. Woodson to bring national attention to the contributions of black Americans. Woodson selected the second week of February in honor of the birthdays of pivotal black supporters Frederick Douglass and Abraham Lincoln. It became a national month-long celebration in 1976. I hope that young Americans as well as old take time out of their schedules to learn more about the African American community in their own hometown and the rich heritage that it has provided the United States of America.”
02.01.2006	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess is pleased to announce that thirty young men and women from the 26th District of Texas have been selected as his Class of 2010 nominees to the United States Service Academies: the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO. If appointed, the nominees will enter this summer. “I am very impressed by the high caliber of candidates that applied to my office; the selection process was very competitive,” said Burgess. “Each of these students has a strong record of academic performance and community service, and I am proud to nominate them to attend our nation’s service academies. If selected to attend their respective academies, I know that each of them will perform admirably and serve honorably as officers in our country’s military services.” Many of these students were nominated to more that one service academy. If they receive appointment offers from more that one academy, the student will have to choose one to attend. The individuals and the academies to which they have been nominated are: Nathan Brazzel of Denton attends the USAF Preparatory School in Colorado Springs, CO and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Timothy Clark of Highland Village attends the Military Academy Preparatory School in Monmouth, NJ and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Matt Cook attends Denton High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy. Jonathan Curley of Fort Worth attends Justin F. Kimball High School in Dallas and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Sean Davis attends Flower Mound High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Air Force Academies. Howard Eliason attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy. Justin Fisk of North Richland Hills attends Birdville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Air Force Academies. Baker Flagg of Frisco attends Trinity Christian School in Addison and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Ernesto Garcia of North Richland Hills attends Birdville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Air Force Academies. Jonathan Herb attends Keller High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy. Frank Hlatky attends Lewisville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Steve Hodges attends Denton High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Jacob Jones of Justin attends Texas State University in San Marcos, TX and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Joshua Jordan attends Lewisville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy. Jennifer Kapr of Trophy Club attends Northwest High School in Justin and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Joshua Knight of North Richland Hills is a home schooled student and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Kimberly Madorran attends Flower Mound High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Jeff Martz attends Argyle High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy. Cody Matsler attends Gainesville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy. Caleb McKinnon of Argyle attends Coram Deo Academy in Highland Village and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy. Jackson Mershon of Keller attends the New Mexico Military Institute in Roswell, NM and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Britny Miller of Highland Village attends Marcus High School in Flower Mound and has been nominated to the U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Air Force Academies. Brack Nall attends Lewisville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Christopher Olander attends Lewisville High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy. Meredith Sakovitch of North Richland Hills attends Richland High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Military, U.S. Naval and U.S. Air Force Academies. Robert Sparks of Hurst attends Nolan Catholic High School in Fort Worth and has been nominated to the U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Air Force Academies. Hugo Spinoza of Hurst attends L.D. Bell High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Daniel Stovall of Whitesboro attends Callisburg High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Eric Stromme attends Frisco High School and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Zachary Taylor of Roanoke attends the U.S. Air Force Preparatory School in Colorado Springs, CO and has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy.
01.31.2006	Rep. Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) today issued the following statement regarding the confirmation of Judge Samuel Alito to the U.S. Supreme Court: “Today’s confirmation of Judge Samuel Alito to replace retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor on the U.S. Supreme Court is a special moment in history to witness. With a final vote of 58-42, the Senate proved bipartisanship can achieve a positive outcome. Justice Alito will serve his post faithfully abiding by the U.S. Constitution that I myself have sworn an oath to uphold. He brings a wealth of experience and a genuine compassion for the laws of the United States and inalienable rights. As we embark on year full of contentious Supreme Court cases, I am confident that his intelligence and wisdom will prove he was the correct choice for all Americans.”
01.31.2006	Rep. Michael C. Burgess today issued the following statement regarding the passing of Coretta Scott King: “I am deeply saddened by the death of Coretta Scott King. Mrs. King stood by the side of her husband, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., through the tumultuous struggle for civil rights. Her strength, integrity and compassion extended the reach of the cause. Even after the tragic loss of Dr. King, she preserved picking up the mantel and continued the push for creating a true equality for all mankind. I was particularly honored to have met Coretta Scott King. Last year, I gave the official opening remarks for the University of North Texas’ eighth annual Equity and Diversity Conference, titled “Developing Others to Expand the Journey” where Mrs. King was the served as the keynote speaker. Her words of grace and perseverance were enlightening to all in attendance. To honor her life, I am an original co-sponsor on a House Resolution of condolence honoring her work and contribution to America. She was an amazing lady, and she will be mourned by the nation.”
01.31.2006	Tonight U.S. Representative Michael Burgess (TX-26) attended President George W. Bush’s State of the Union address, for the 4th time. After the address Burgess made the following comments: “As I sit and contemplate what I believe to be the critical issues facing our country, affordable health care, energy independence and security for our nation in general, it is good to know that the President and I are on the same page. “Tonight, President Bush reminded the country that he has the vision and tenacity to continue his work in improving America for Americans. He has not wavered on his commitment to enhancing the nation’s health care system, striving for energy independence, securing our borders and defending our country. “With the President’s leadership, Congress is confronting the challenges brought about by terrorism, natural disasters and economic stress on our citizens. Together, we recognize the areas where the federal government needs to be more flexible in order to persevere through our current challenges. “There is no doubt in my mind that the world is safer today than when President Bush took office. Democracy is coming to the Middle East, and it gives me hope that sometime later in this century, people that live in liberty will cast a larger footprint on the rest of the world. “The President’s commitment to reinvest in the productive sector further shows his resolve to put tax money back in the hands of the taxpayers. We have worked in Congress alongside the President to retrain spending, and streamline programs, such as Medicaid, so that they are economically sound and truly benefit those that are intended to receive federal assistance. “As a doctor, I support President Bush’s aggressive consumer-driven health care initiatives. In order for consumer-driven health care to succeed, we must strive for great transparency in health care costs. Expanding the use of tax-free Health Savings Accounts and implementing a sound health information technology system are two examples of how we can all work to bring down the costs of health care. “Hailing from North Texas, the home of the natural gas rich Barnett Shale, it was heartening to hear the President discuss the importance of energy issues in this country. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita went a long way to show just how critical this issue is to all Americans. Conservation and alternative resources are integral parts in striving for energy independence. We can reach this goal; we must all do our part. “Those of us in Congress must continue to exercise our constitutional duty of oversight and investigation. This is an often-overlooked responsibility of Congress. Under this duty, we should encourage and extend those federal policies and ideas which move us in the right direction and conversely, we must redesign those which are coming up short. We owe the American people nothing less. “Tonight, President Bush gave us all a vision. Although we are a country at war, we are a country that is strong, and piloted by a courageous and proven leader, and I look forward to working on his initiatives as well as my own in 2006.”
01.13.2006	The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess of the 26th Congressional District of Texas: Although I am still saddened by the departure of Texas’ strong, courageous Major Leader Tom DeLay, I know that his decision was made so that our Conference could move forward. Tom instinctively knew that it would be best for us to select an individual capable of directing our conference as we tackle difficult legislation coming before Congress that will ensure America continues to succeed. After carefully reviewing the candidates for this select position, I have decided to support acting Majority Leader Roy Blunt of Missouri. Roy and I have been friends for some time. I have witnessed first hand his commitment to our party values and his ability to promote complex legislative ideas. It was my honor to host Rep. Blunt when he toured Peterbilt Motor Company in Denton. The tour showed me that Roy truly understands not only how to serve his constituents but also how to inspire other Members to follow his lead. I am confident that Roy’s amiable personality and intellect will make our party stronger and bring back to the forefront our positive agenda.
01.07.2006	Statement from Rep. Burgess on Tom DeLay Stepping Down from Leadership: Tom DeLay's decision to depart leadership is one of innumerable selfless acts on his part. Tom's devotion to his constituents, the State of Texas, and the betterment of Congress is unwavering even today. Leadership is not merely a position, but an innate quality that Tom has in spades. I am saddened of the news of his departure, but I am confident that he will soon be exonerated of all charges. I am comforted because I know he was guided by faith, with the support of his family. Tom Delay's energy, intelligence, and sheer determination will continue to guide the House and defend our country in perilous times. I want to thank Tom for his courage, his friendship, and his service to America.
01.06.2006	The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26): I commend Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) for issuing guidance on how Medicare claims will be paid in 2006 to reflect impending congressional action to avert a cut in Medicare payments to physicians. Physicians have not had a positive increase in Medicare payment rates reflecting the growing cost of services since 1987. Periodic adjustments have kept up with inflation, but not with the exploding cost of medical care. Medicare already provides reimbursement well below the cost of a majority of medical services. Now, because of Democrat procedural roadblocks placed in front of a Deficit Reduction Act that contains a payment freeze, doctors are experiencing a 4.4 percent decrease in Medicare payments effective as of January 1, 2006. These cuts are especially damaging to the medical profession and access for Medicare beneficiaries. I am happy that CMS has issued guidance stating that once these roadblocks are cleared and the Deficit Reduction Act is passed into law, payments will be made retroactively to physicians to make up for the 4.4 percent cut that went into place on January 1st. I have fought to keep this provision in the final bill that would avert deep cuts in physician payment rates for 2006 during negotiations between the House and Senate on this measure, and I am glad that CMS has seen fit to act swiftly on this account.
12.19.2005	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Deficit Reduction Act bringing momentous reforms to the country’s Medicaid system. “The purpose of our work today is not about money,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26). “It is about saving a vital, federal program.” Medicaid is a federal-state program that provides medical care to 53 million low-income and/or elderly patients which constitutes nearly one in five Americans. Medicaid is already the biggest item in state budgets exceeding elementary and secondary education combined. Health and Human Services and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services estimate that the federal government would pay $1 trillion over the next five years on Medicaid if something reforms were not made now. The changes are also estimated to save taxpayers approximately $4.7 billion over the next five years, according to the Congressional Budget Office. “Medicaid is hemorrhaging red ink,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “We worked diligently in the Energy and Commerce Committee to bring out these reforms to the House floor where we made history by saving this program.” The bipartisan National Governors Association has been pushing for reform to the Medicaid system that is overtaking the budgets of their respective states and consider the “unsustainable.” Passage of the Deficit Reduction Act brought specific reforms to Medicaid including: Give States Greater Flexibility to Provide Services Root Out Wasteful Overspending on Pharmaceuticals Encourage Personal Responsibility No More Medicaid for Millionaires Significant portions of the bill were authored by Congressman Michael C. Burgess. Language from H.R. 3757, Medicaid Health Savings Accounts is included in the bill that received approval early Monday morning. Currently, Medicaid does nothing to promote cost-conscious behavior or provide a sense of personal responsibility for health care decision-making. It is expected that President Bush will sign this bill into law. Medicaid Health Savings Accounts, introduced by Rep. Mike Rogers (MI-08) along with Rep. Burgess, provides flexibility to the consumer to make health care choices with their money. Beneficiaries can self-direct a pre-funded account for medical care, roll over unspent balances and retain a portion of account funds after leaving Medicaid to spend not only on medical care but also on health insurance, job training and tuition expenses. States will have the option of setting up these accounts. “Giving Medicaid beneficiaries more control over their care will not only improve their health in the long-run, but will also help shore up a floundering Medicaid program,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “Medicaid Health Savings Accounts are just what states need to return the focus on Medicaid on quality health outcomes, not the same inflated program that will become more and more of a burden for all involved.” “The Deficit Reduction Act reforms a system so that it will not bankrupt America,” remarked Congressman Burgess. “We can make Medicaid a cost-effective, efficient and stable program for those groups of people who truly need it.”
12.19.2005	In the early morning hours, the House of Representatives passed the Deficit Reduction Act which reduces the deficit by over $39 billion and, with pressure from Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26), included language providing for a one year freeze in payment rates for physician services under Medicare. The Act implements changes in government programs to make them more efficient and ensure that the money that is appropriated to these programs reaches the people most at need. “While my vote underscored my commitment to fiscal responsibility,” commented Rep. Michael C. Burgess (TX-26), “perhaps the most important achievement for me was ensuring that our doctors are paid for the services they provide to Medicare patients.” “Congressman, doctor, Michael Burgess aggressively sought to avert the physician payment cut,” said Majority Whip Roy Blunt, (MO-07). “He was determined in his efforts to explain the importance of physician involvement in the Medicare system.” Medicare payments are already lower than medical practice costs. According to a survey conducted by the American Medical Association, a tremendous number of physicians, 38 percent, responded that they would be forced to reduce the number of Medicare patients if the 4.4% reduction had not been frozen. “As a Member of Congress and physician, I can strongly empathize with the medical community as they faced the impending 26% cut in reimbursements over the next six years,” said Congressman Burgess. “I had to do what I could to keep doctors in the Medicare system.” Had these cuts gone through physicians would have been less able to provide services to patients. Furthermore, physicians could not have invested in necessary information technology and medical equipment. All of these combined factors would have negatively impacted the quality of care that these individuals receive. “While I’m pleased I was able to push through a freeze for the upcoming year, I believe a substantial, long term fix to reimbursements will allow physicians to devote their full attention once again to the profession they have committed themselves to and that is patient care,” said Congressman Burgess. Other portions of Medicare are changed with the passage of the Deficit Reduction Act. The new reforms will ultimately save taxpayer money by ensuring that the neediest elderly have access to Medicare services and more affluent seniors are participating more in the costs of their health care. Additionally, the Act establishes a Medicare gainsharing demonstration in the hopes of standardizing care while achieving savings. It creates a demonstration program to evaluate gainsharing arrangement between hospitals and other physicians at up to six sites beginning on January 1, 2007. The Deficit Reduction Act also requires a final report to be submitted to Congress on the outcome of the project by May 1, 2010. “By making these changes and setting hard dates for follow-up, we can evaluate the effectiveness of our reforms,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “We are not just passing reforms for the day, but making positive changes for the future.”
12.16.2005	Burgess’ Iraqi Special Tribunal Resolution Passed in the House Today, the House of Representatives passed H.Res.534 which recognizes the importance and credibility of an independent Iraqi judiciary in the formation of a new and democratic Iraq with a vote of 408-1. The path to a free and democratic Iraq has not been easy. Yet, after years of oppression and torture, the Iraqi people are growing closer to having a nation ruled by the people instead of by terror and fear. Earlier this year, the passage of the Iraqi Constitution marked a significant milestone in the recovery of the sovereign nation of Iraq. In excess of 60 percent of the people of Iraq braved the terrorists, braved the threats of violence, to be able to cast their vote. This week, the Iraqi people have reached another historic milestone. Iraqi men and women, worldwide, are going to the polls in droves to be able to democratically elect the nation’s first permanent constitutional parliament in decades. While there will still be hurdles for the Iraqi people to overcome, today we celebrate with our friends as they continue to take courageous steps in becoming their own sovereign nation. “A crucial component to a free and democratic nation is a judicial system in which alleged criminals can be indicted, prosecuted, and punished in a fair and impartial manner,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “We are all aware of the current trial of Saddam Hussein; while his trial is very important, a strong, independent Iraqi judicial system is of even greater importance,” The Iraqi Special Tribunal has been empanelled to bring swift and impartial justice to both the victims and the nation of Iraq. H.Res.534 will show our support of this icon of democracy – a true, legal judicial system. “The people of Iraq, the people of a sovereign nation, deserve the true justice which can only be obtained through a recognized and credible judicial system,” said Congressman Burgess. In the past two years, Congressman Michael Burgess has traveled to Iraq four times. During every mission, he has been able to witness first hand the progress that is being made by the Iraqi government. James Meernik, chair of Political Science at the University of North Texas and associated editor of International Studies Quarterly had this to say about the legislation, “The work of the Iraqi Special Tribunal will be very important in bringing out the truth of what transpired during the reign of Saddam Hussein so that those who might deny that horrible crimes took place can be confronted with the facts of what actually took place.” Congressman Burgess closed his floor remarks today with this important note, “I would remiss if I did not mention the determination and skill of our armed forces, and their resolution in continuing their mission in Iraq. It is due to the bravery and perseverance of U.S. service members and their coalition allies that the tyranny of Saddam is over. I applaud our troops and our leadership for the success.”
12.07.2005	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND AIR QUALITY HEARING "Understanding the Peak Oil Theory" December 7, 2005 First, I want to thank Chairman Hall for convening this hearing today. There have been a number of articles in the press on this subject and I think the information provided in today's hearing will help this committee get beyond the rhetoric to the facts. The geography of oil and gas has led our country to place our energy assurance in the hands of leaders such as Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and inflexible or unstable dictators of the Middle East. Today, the U.S. imports nearly 60% of its oil -- and this is expected to increase to 75% by 2010. Our traditional energy sources will only get us so far; we can't drill our way to energy independence; we need a balanced approach. I believe that Congress should dedicate itself to achieving energy independence as soon as possible. This is an ambitious goal; one which will require industry, policy makers, and Americans to think of innovative approaches to meet our energy needs. I look forward to learning more about how the peak oil theory takes into account so-called "unconventional" oil and gas sources, such as the tar sands of Alberta. This morning as we discuss the peak oil theory, we should do so through the lens of changing technology. In my district, we have seen first-hand the impact that technological change can have on energy supply. Forty years ago, there was no natural gas production in Denton County, Texas. Since that time, the innovative people in the energy industry have developed technology to produce gas from "unconventional" natural gas shale formations. Today, the Barnett Shale, which is a natural gas shale located in North Texas, is expected to produce nearly 400 million cubic feet of gas this year. Technology is constantly evolving, and with it, so-called "unconventional" energy sources become conventional. This is something that we must keep in mind as we discuss peak oil. Again, Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing and I look forward to hearing from the witnesses.
12.01.2005	Yesterday, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26), in conjunction with the Texas Department of Transportation, hosted the 3rd Annual 26th Congressional District Transportation Summit. The event highlighted local, state and federal transportation experts and was devoted to discussing and improving transportation throughout North Texas. “Improving transportation requires a fundamentally change in the philosophy of how we fund projects, stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “ It is clear that there is a need for flexibility in funding transportation projects,” continued Rep. Burgess. “Together, we can use our limited transportation dollars in a more sensible, smarter fashion, and complete projects in a faster, more efficient manner.” The event’s opening remarks were given by Congressman Michael Burgess and Ric Williamson, Chairman of the Texas Transportation Commission. Praise was given to the success of Congressman Burgess and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Don Young (R-AL) for enacting, in August of this year, the Highway Reauthorization bill, commonly referred to as TEA-LU. This legislation reauthorized appropriations from the Highway Trust Fund for highway programs, research and technology, motor carrier transportation and safety, and transportation research and education. It designated $286.4 billion to be distributed over the six-year life of the legislation among highway, transit and safety projects throughout the country. TEA-LU had several key policy revisions for Texas: Toll-Credits During the initial House passage of this legislation in March, Congressman Michael Burgess offered an amendment that would allow states to receive transportation development credits, better known as “toll credits.” This provision was included in the final version of TEA-LU. Now, states will receive transportation development credits in a timely manner. States will be able to reinvest in their transportation systems without continually requesting additional federal monies to meet their needs. “It is imperative that Congress continue to focus on bringing innovative financing tools and more streamlined processes to meet transportation infrastructure needs,” commented Congressman Michael Burgess. Design-Build In March, Congressman Burgess reintroduced language on the concept of “Design-Build” for the 109th Congress. “Design-Build” is a term to describe an innovative project delivery method that combines the design and construction of a road project into one contract rather than the traditional “Design-Bid-Build” method of having individual contracts for separate, sequential phases of a project. By modifying the existing law, “Design-Build” gives Texas and other states additional flexibility to design and build roads concurrently, not sequentially. By integrating the design-build portion of a project, states can complete projects in a more efficient and inexpensive manner. “This philosophy of road building would bring relief to dangerous and congested roads that can not wait another 20 years to get fixed,” Congressman Michael Burgess. Congressman Burgess’ work on design-build earned him the Design-Build Institute of America’s Distinguished Legislator Leadership Award. Dan Stoppenhagen, Director of Transportation and Infrastructure for Fluor Enterprise, Inc. presented the award during the summit. Rate-of-Return The last key provision from the transportation reauthorization bill concerns rate-of-return for federal transportation dollars. Currently, for every $1 Texans send to Federal Highway Administration, they receive only 88 cents back. This bill will allow for a gradual increase in the national rate of return from 90.5 percent in 2005 to 92.0 percent in 2009. “This is an important victory for the State of Texas as we continue to work on ways to pay for our growing transportation needs for the 21st century,” remarked Congressman Burgess. “The next highway reauthorization bill will begin taking shape soon in Washington, and I encourage all local transportation leaders to discuss their thoughts and ideas with me.” Event Details Ric Williamson’s remarks covered the need for more flexibility regarding how we spend and receive transportation dollars noting that in the last 25 years, the population of Texas increased 57% and will increase another 60% in the next 25 years. Michael Morris, Transportation Director, North Central Texas Council of Governments remarked that the annual cost of congestion will be $11.8 billion in the year 2025, and that the vision of transportation must include more than just building new roads. There were then three panels within the event. First, there were presentations by county representatives including Mary Horn, Judge, Denton County; Oscar Trevino, Mayor, North Richland Hills (Tarrant County); and Bill Freeman, Judge, Cooke County. There remarks were broader in their approach encompassing several facets of transportation within their communities. Dedicated to their respective counties, each discussing the larger projects they believe should be improved which included Highway 121, Interstate 35 East and West, Highway 820 and Farm to Market Road 51. The second panel focused on highway infrastructure and highlighted Bill Hale, Dallas District, Texas Department of Transportation; Maribel Chavez, Fort Worth District, Texas Department of Transportation; and Larry Tegtmeyer, Wichita Falls District, Texas Department of Transportation. Focusing on the mobility needs of DFW, Bill Hale discussed how TXDoT’s financing tools will allow Texas to build roads in less time. These financial tools include toll, public/private, pass-through toll and managed lanes. Maribel Chavez switched gears to discuss Tarrant County plans to improve highways over the next four years with $2 billion in state and federal funds. In her remarks she underscored the need for environmental streamlining for transportation projects. Larry Tegtmeyer commented on the need to maintain the current system and improve safety. Cooke County, which lies on the fringe of the ever-increasing metroplex, is looking for more flexibility in project delivery. Mr. Tegtmeyer also cited the need to give Interstate 35 additional lanes through Cooke County, an overpass for Highway 82 and the need for a loop around the city of Gainesville. The final panel focused on North Texas’ transit infrastructure and highlight Doug Allen, Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART); Charles Emery, Denton County Transportation Authority; and Dick Ruddell, Fort Worth “T.” Doug Allen opened the panel commenting that DART is the largest light-rail in the southwest and transports over 1 million passengers every week. DART's northwest/southeast corridor light-rail project runs to Carrolton and will connect with the Denton County Transportation Authority (DCTA). This provided a seamless transition into Charles Emery’s remarks. He provided a brief history and evolution of the DCTA and discussed the locally preferred alternative for Denton – Highland Village – Lewisville – Carrollton corridor. The locally preferred alternative constitutes utilizing the former MKT railroad line, which runs parallel to Interstate 35E to the East. Centrally located, the system would support riders from downtown Denton, Texas Woman’s University and the University of North Texas, in addition to riders from the Lewisville-Highland Village area. Dick Ruddell closed the final panel discussing the projected congestion levels for 2025. He too sounded the call for flexibility in spending transportation dollars and seeks a more seamless regional transit system. In all, the 3rd Annual Transportation Summit included over 80 transportation officials. The summit provided a chance for these leaders to discuss innovative financing concepts and to set a strategy for improving North Texas’ transportation future.
11.17.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Hearing on Physician Payment November 17, 2005 I would like to thank Chairman Barton for holding this hearing on the very important topic of physician payments. As a Member of Congress and physician, I can strongly empathize with the medical community as they face the impending 26% cut in reimbursements over the next six years. Medicare payments are already lower than medical practice costs. According to a survey conducted by the American Medical Association, a tremendous number of physicians, 38 percent, responded that they would be forced to reduce the number of Medicare patients they accept based on the 4.4% reduction they face this coming year. This data is just reflective of the first installment in a series of cuts. This is of great concern to me as access to health care is crucial for the Medicare population. In addition, based on these reduced reimbursement rates, physicians will be less able to invest in information technology and necessary medical equipment. All of these combined factors will negatively impact the quality of care that these individuals receive. Furthermore, as we continue to explore Pay for Performance by addressing whether this system is an improvement over the current one, it is important to establish true quality indicators. For example, a measure should not focus on the number of procedures done, but rather on whether the care administered resulted in a better outcome for a patient. Physicians should also not be penalized for a patient’s noncompliance with certain treatments. We have the unique opportunity to truly reform health care and this can only be accomplished by laying a solid foundation for such a program. The timing of this hearing is ideal as all of these issues need to be addressed before the adverse effects of these cuts come to fruition in January 2006. I look forward to today’s testimony as we work together to find practical and permanent solutions to this issue. A substantial, long term fix to reimbursements will allow physicians to devote their full attention once again to the profession they have committed themselves to and that is patient care.
11.09.2005	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Development Appropriations, and the Science, State, Justice and Commerce Appropriations conference reports. Congressman Michael C. Burgess voted in favor of both conference reports. “I am very pleased that these worthy projects will receive funding,” said Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26). “When fighting for precious federal, taxpayer dollars, I knew I had to be accountable for picking projects that were necessary to the safe growth and development of North Texas’ natural water resources.” H.R. 2419, Energy & Water The conference report passed 399 – 17 on the House floor. The Energy and Water (EW) Conference Report provides a total of $30.5 billion in budget authority for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers-Civil, the Department of Interior including the Bureau of Reclamation, the Department of Energy, and several independent agencies. This bill is $1 billion below the Senate passed level and 2% or $749 million above last year’s level. Lewisville Dam Operations and Maintenance - $4.290 million  Funds will be used for repairing the service gates and the spillway; modernizing surrounding parks; resurfacing the embankment service road; and managing habitat restoration and archeological resources. Grapevine Lake Operations and Maintenance - $3.349 million  Funds will be used to sandblast and repaint the service bridge; maintain the shoreline; modernize surrounding parks; and restore habitat restoration. Ray Roberts Lake Operations and Maintenance - $963,000  Funds will be used for repairs to the Overlook Part that will bring the facilities up to the Corps of Engineers Justified Level of Service stands, and repairs to the shoreline damage from erosion. Texas Water Allocation Assessment - $1.44 million  Funds will enable the Corps to assist Texas water regions in determining if existing water can be better allocated to support more balanced water use in light of future needs. Upper Trinity River Basin Study - $800,000  Funds will be used to continue feasibility studies for the Dallas Floodway and Stemmons North Industrial Corridor. Fort Worth Central City - $7 million  Funds will enable the construction of a by-pass channel and appurtenant structures to control flood flows along the Clear Fork and West Fork or the Trinity River to provide ecosystem restoration and recreation facilities. Little Fossil Creek, Halthom City (Section 205) - $270,000  Funds will be used for flood control projects including the widening and deepening the channel for Little Fossil Creek; installing erosion control features where necessary; and building a multi-use recreational trail along the west side of the creek. H.R. 2862, Science, State, Justice and Commerce The conference report passed 397 – 19 on the House floor. The report provides a total of $57.85 billion which was roughly $3 billion less than the President requested by $1.61 billion over fiscal year 2005. The Science, State, Justice and Commerce Conference Report funds a wide range of federal agencies including the Department of Justice – which includes the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Drug Enforcement Administration, United States Marshals Service and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; Department of Commerce – which includes the Patent and Trademark Office, National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the Bureau of Census; Department of State; as well as National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NSAS), Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the Small Business Administration (SBA). “To feel secure is a basic tenet of life, and I wanted to work to bring funds back to our men in blue” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “The $150,000 that will go to the City of Denton Police Department will allow them to acquire the necessary equipment for them to continue to keep us all safe.” The funding for the City of Denton Police Department will go toward the purchase of a Live Scan digital fingerprinting system. This device will allow for the immediate transmission of fingerprint records to the Department of Justice of other authorized receiving agency.
11.08.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Hearing on Pandemic Flu November 8, 2005 Mr. Chairman, I believe that this hearing comes at a pivotal moment as our government gears up to address a potential pandemic influenza outbreak. On November 1, President Bush outlined broad principles of a national strategy to prepare for the risk of pandemic flu. Secretary Leavitt, I am especially interested to hear from you about lessons learned from your trip overseas to areas already hard-hit by avian flu. I am hopeful that the plan this government has developed takes into account containment strategies that may be working in other countries to halt the spread of this disease in poultry. If we can get a handle on the animal to animal transmission, hopefully we can reduce the probability that H5N1 will change into a disease characterized by more efficient human to human transmission. Outside of animal health countermeasures and greater disease surveillance, I agree with President Bush that we must fully prepare for the potential of a human outbreak of some variant of H5N1. Stockpiling vaccine and anti-virals will be essential to this. I think that it will be important as well to discuss how the national plan treats matters such as intellectual property as we seek to increase surge production capacity. I am pleased to see that companies such as Roche have been proactive and have begun discussions with other companies to determine whether they have the capacity and the ability to produce an anti-viral such as Tamiflu. The private sector will play an essential role in our preparedness strategy and we have to ensure that they have the ability to participate in any national plan. Because of that, I believe that it is essential that we also address liability issues that confront manufacturers. We must address this issue immediately should the government need to call on manufacturers to ramp up production of vaccines or anti-virals. The threat of pandemic flu is greater than any public health threat this country has faced in many years. I believe it is our responsibility to fully inform the American people we serve about the threat faced by this possible outbreak, truthfully and with a full accounting of the facts. It is also our responsibility to prepare the American people the best we can for a potential outbreak. We must do this with all due haste because the alternative of being unprepared is too chilling to consider.
11.02.2005	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND AIR QUALITY HEARING NATURAL GAS AND HEATING OIL FOR AMERICAN HOMES November 2, 2005 First, I want to thank Chairman Barton for convening this hearing today. I think today's hearing will do a good job of breaking down the natural gas and home heating oil supply chains. We did something similar following Hurricane's Katrina and Rita to break down the supply chain for gasoline. As we discussed during our hearing last week, the EIA expects home heating costs to almost double this year when compared to last year. The EIA Short-Term Energy Outlook predicts that consumers who heat their homes using primarily natural gas can expect to pay an additional $350 this winter and those who use heating oil can expect to pay an additional $378. This Committee and this Congress have already taken some steps to help address our home heating needs in the future. When President Bush signed the Energy Policy Act of 2005 into law, it included several important provisions intended to boost supply and hold down costs for consumers. It incentivized domestic production of both ultra-deep gas wells in the Gulf of Mexico and on-shore marginal wells; streamlined permitting for natural gas projects on federal lands; and clarified the federal government’s role in siting LNG facilities to help reduce red-tape. The Energy Policy Act also provided loan guarantees for the construction of an Alaska Natural gas Pipeline. When the House passed the GAS Act a few weeks ago, we sunset these provisions to spur companies to action. At least one company in my neck of the woods is listening - Just last week, the Challenger Capital Group in Dallas announced that it will take the lead in arranging financing for the pipeline. The project is expected to cost between $13 billion and $20 billion when it's finished in 2012 and provide 4.5 Bcf per day. I'd like to ask unanimous consent to insert an article by the Dallas Morning News on this subject into the record. Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma all have had an impact on the availability of supply this winter, but the underlying reason for the high prices is that in the U.S., demand far outstrips supply. We have restricted exploration off of over 2/3 of our coasts, placed thousands of acres of federal lands off-limits, and then prevented the siting of LNG projects and refineries in those areas that could most use them. We are in this situation, Mr. Chairman, because some members of this panel have consistently opposed measures that would increase supply of both natural gas and oil. I have a hard time understanding how these members can be opposed to policies that will bring relief to their constituents from high heating costs. We've seen that in their single-synapse opposition limited exploration in ANWR and their consistent opposition to projects that would directly benefit their constituents. Some examples include the Islander East gas transmission pipeline project from Southern Connecticut across Long Island Sound to western Long Island and New York City and the Weaver’s Cove LNG terminal project in Fall River, Mass. I can assure you that none of my constituents would directly benefit from these projects. It is the constituents who are represented by those who have most staunchly opposed energy infrastructure development that would stand to gain the most. We are lucky in North Texas to be geologically blessed with the Barnet Shale to provide us with natural gas. In 2004 the Barnett Shale produced over 370 Bcf and total reserves are estimated to be over 500 Trillion Cubic Feet. We have all the natural gas that we need in Texas. In fact, we export it up to our friends in the Northeast. North Texas is clearly playing its role in providing the country with safe and secure domestic energy. It is time for those who would stand in the way of increasing energy supply to realize that it is their obstructionist tactics that are causing the high heating costs that the EIA is predicting for this winter. So in conclusion, Mr. Chairman, I thank the panelists for appearing before us today and look forward to learning more about the supply chain.
10.31.2005	U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) announced today members of his 2005 Service Academy Advisory Board. The eleven-member board will meet in November to advise him upon the selection of qualified service academy candidates. The board’s purpose is to comprehensively screen and interview high school and college applicants wishing to receive a congressional nomination; the board then makes recommendations to Congressman Burgess for final review and nominations are sent to the individual service academies (U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY.) “One of the privileges I have serving in the U.S. House of Representatives is the opportunity to nominate outstanding young people from the 26th District to our nation’s service academies,” Congressman Michael C. Burgess said. “We have an excellent group of former military, education and civic leaders serving on the Advisory Board. In this tumultuous time in our nation’s history, many young people in our area have expressed their interest in serving their country by attending one of our nation’s service academies. After a rigorous selection process, I look forward to receiving the recommendations of this outstanding board.” Retired Air Force Lt. General Charles R. Hamm will serve as Chairman of the Board. Congressman Burgess noted, “General Hamm’s highly regarded service as the former Superintendent of the U.S. Air Force Academy enables him to capably lead the Board.” “I know how serious Congressman Burgess takes his responsibility to nominate highly qualified young people to the academies, and I look forward to serving with this distinguished board to recommend the right people to him for consideration,” said General Hamm. The members of the 26th Congressional District Service Academy Advisory Board are as follows: 26th Congressional District Service Academy Advisory Board Chairman: Lt. General Charles R. Hamm, U.S. Air Force (Ret.) of Argyle – Aviation Consultant Former Superintendent of U.S. Air Force Academy; 35 years service in USAF Air Command and Staff College, 1969; National War College, 1972 M.S., Auburn University, 1969; B.S., U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), 1956 Army Mr. Gene Collett of Flower Mound – Group Manager, Capital One Former Academy Board Member, U.S. Cong. Eric Cantor (VA-7) Captain, U.S. Army, Parachutist and Pilot MBA, University of Texas (Austin), 1989 B.S., U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), 1982 Mr. Thomas Russell of Flower Mound – Aerospace Consultant Captain, U.S. Army Infantry Officer, Airborne Ranger B.S., U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), 1963 Navy/Marine Corps Mr. Bryan McKinney, Jr. of Flower Mound – Terminal Manager, DFW Airport, Transportation Security Administration Academy Board Member, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn & U.S. Sen. Phil Gramm Infantry Captain, U.S. Marine Corps B.S., U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), 1977 Air Force Mr. Terence T. “Tom” Henricks, Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Ret.) of Keller – Executive, Bell Helicopter Textron Former NASA astronaut & Space Shuttle commander Honorary D.Sc., Heidelberg College, 2002; Honorary D.Sc., Defiance College, 1993 M.S., Golden Gate University, 1982; B.S., U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), 1974 Mr. Brad Jones of Copper Canyon – Pilot, Delta Airlines Former Mayor of Highland Village Captain, U.S. Air Force: Pilot M.S., Troy State University, 1989 B.S., U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), 1979 Merchant Marine Mr. Steven Hill of Copper Canyon – National Principal-In-Charge, KPMG Mayor Pro Tem of Copper Canyon Dallas Symphony Board of Trustees U.S. Naval Reserve Officer B.S., U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY), 1986 Community Mrs. Elaine Emery of Lewisville - Small Business Owner/Real Estate Broker Medical Center of Lewisville Board of Trustees; Denton Co. Health Advisory Board; Childrens Advocacy Ctr of Denton Co. Board of Directors B.S., University of Oklahoma, 1968 Mr. Ralph McCloud, Jr. of Fort Worth – Secretariat for Pastoral & Community Services, Catholic Diocese of Fort Worth Former Mayor Pro Tem and Fort Worth City Councilman B.A., Paul Quinn College (Dallas, TX), 1996 Education Ms. Wanda Hill of Fort Worth – Associate Professor of Government, Tarrant County College, South Campus Fellowships: Tarrant County Jr. College Faculty, Hatton W. Sumners Institute, Taft Institute of Govt, UNT Teaching; USMA Military History Teaching Training M.A., University of Texas at Tyler, 1984 M.S., 1973 & B.A., 1971, Southern University (Baton Rouge, LA) Dr. Lee Ann Nutt of Denton – Provost, North Central Texas College, Corinth Campus Denton Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors; City of Denton Zoning Board of Adjustment; North Central Texas Workforce Development Board Ed.D., 1996 & M.Ed., 1992, Texas Tech University B.B.A., Texas Tech University, 1989
10.28.2005	Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee voted out of committee the 21st Century Medicaid Reform Act as part of the reconciliation process. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, the only doctor on the committee, played an integral role in developing the language of the bill. The bill passed 33-17. “The purpose of our work today is not about money,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “It is about saving a vital, federal program.” Medicaid is a federal-state program that provides medical care to 53 million low-income and/or elderly patients which constitutes nearly one in five Americans. Medicaid is already the biggest item in state budgets exceeding elementary and secondary education combined. Health and Human Services and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services estimate that the federal government would pay $1 trillion over the next five years on Medicaid if something reforms were not made now. “Medicaid is hemorrhaging red ink,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “We have an historic opportunity to improve it now or ultimately risk exsanguination.” The bipartisan National Governors Association has been pushing for reform to the Medicaid system that is overtaking the budgets of their respective states. A number of governors, both Republicans and Democrats, from across the nation, participated in committees hearings on Medicaid Reform. Each governor was constituent on the message that Medicaid, as it is currently structured, was “unsustainable.” The goals of Medicaid reform include: - Giving greater flexibility to provide services - Ensuring expenditures are not misdirected from their intended purpose - Encouraging personal responsibility - Eliminating duplicate spending, and - Ensuring a more rational pricing system for pharmaceuticals Significant portions of the bill were authored by Congressman Michael C. Burgess. Language from H.R. 3757, Medicaid Health Savings Accounts is included in the mark-up. Currently, Medicaid does nothing to promote cost-conscious behavior or provide a sense of personal responsibility for health care decision-making. Medicaid Health Savings Accounts, introduced by Rep. Mike Rogers (MI-08) along with Rep. Burgess, provides flexibility to the consumer to make health care choices with their money. Beneficiaries can self-direct a pre-funded account for medical care, roll over unspent balances and retain a portion of account funds after leaving Medicaid to spend not only on medical care but also on health insurance, job training and tuition expenses. States will have the option of setting up these accounts. “Giving Medicaid beneficiaries more control over their care will not only improve their health in the long-run, but will also help shore up a floundering Medicaid program,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “Medicaid Savings Accounts are just what states need return the focus on Medicaid on quality health outcomes, not the same inflated program that will become more and more of a burden for all involved.” The Medicaid reform bill also includes much needed changes on how we handle long term care in America. Originally introduced by Congressman Burgess as stand-alone legislation, H.R. 3511, the Medicaid State Long-Term Care Partnership Program Act of 2005 protects enrollees’ assets if their insurance coverage is exhausted, and they have to look to state Medicaid programs to cover their long term care expenses. “The fact remains that most of us are anesthetized to the true cost and true value of long term care insurance,” stated Congressman Burgess. “Those of us who can should consider the purchase of long term care insurance as the socially responsible thing to do. Providing this additional incentive to the purchase of long term care coverage may allow some of the burden to be shifted from the government to the private sector.” Congressman Burgess also addressed issues relating to Hurricane Katrina with two amendments that were accepted by the committee on voice vote. The first amendment would ensure Texas will not lose federal Medicaid dollars in the future as a result of additional income to Katrina evacuees that relocated to Texas. Assistance to evacuees in the form of FEMA payments, Unemployment Insurance and other payments will artificially inflate the state’s per capita income leading to a decline in federal Medicaid payments. Governor Rick Perry, supports the amendment and applauds the work of Congressman Burgess. “Today’s action by the House Energy and Commerce Committee will ensure that Texas’ share of federal Medicaid funding is held harmless and not reduced as a result of Hurricane Katrina. I commend Representative Burgess and Chairman Barton for their work and leadership on this issue of great importance to Texas.” Congressman Burgess’ second amendment would streamline the community health center qualification requirements and also provide immediate public health assistance to hospitals in the New Orleans metropolitan areas and give them the ability to retain essential medical personnel. Ultimately, the bill will be brought before the House of Representatives for a final vote sometime before the end of the first session of Congress. “This bill reforms a system so that it will not bankrupt America,” remarked Congressman Burgess. “We can make Medicaid a cost-effective, efficient and stable program for those groups of people who truly need it.”
10.26.2005	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) voted in favor of legislation that will enable first responders to communicate more effectively in times of emergencies. The House Energy and Commerce Committee approved legislation setting December 31, 2008 as the “hard date” for the transition of all televisions from analog to digital transmission. By freeing the space currently used by analog transmissions, public safety officials will gain access to 24 megahertz of radio spectrum and an additional 60 megahertz of spectrum for radio. “It was apparent after 9/11 that first responders were greatly hampered by the inability to communicate with one another,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “I have been a long-time advocate of making the switch to digital transmissions, but it was the devastation of Hurricane Katrina and Rita that made it clear to my colleagues that we could not wait another four years to take action.” Passage of the bill will trigger a required spectrum auction to commence on January 7, 2008. The sale of the spectrum alone is estimated to bring in somewhere between $10 and $30 billion the federal treasury. “Fort Worth, and all Texans, are grateful to the leadership of Congressmen Barton and Burgess to ensure analogue spectrum is returned for public safety purposes by a fixed date in 2008,” commented Fort Worth Mayor Mike Moncrief. “I am also grateful for the efforts to dedicate revenue from the sale of the remaining spectrum for interoperable communications.” “As we improve our public safety service delivery options, it's vital that we ensure and provide for efficient and effective radio communications,” said Euline Brock, Mayor of Denton, Texas. “This legislation is a huge step in that direction.” Specifically the bill:  Sets a hard date of December 31, 2008 for the end of analog TV broadcasts.  Authorizes the use of spectrum auction proceeds to provide as many as two $40 coupons per household for converter boxes to enable viewers to watch digital broadcasts on their analog sets.  Requires the FCC to complete a series of proceedings necessary to assign broadcasters final digital channel assignments.  Mandates all new televisions of 13 inches or more must include a digital tuner by March 1, 2007.  Obligates broadcasters, cable operators, retailers and television manufacturers engage in a consumer education campaign regarding the transition.
10.25.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Full Committee Mark-up: Titles I and II of Reconciliation Bill October 25, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for the time today to briefly talk about the measures that will come before the committee over the next few days. Our goal here is to find savings to the federal government and by transfer, the U.S. taxpayer. But we also need to take a close look at the proposals before us and fashion them in a manner that improves these public programs and gives more tools to our first responders. Passage of this bill will trigger a required spectrum auction, freeing up important bandwidth for first responders. The sale of the spectrum alone is estimated to bring in somewhere between $10 and $30 billion the federal treasury. It was apparent after 9/11 that first responders were greatly hampered by the inability to communicate with one another--that perspective has only become clearer in my mind as I have visited New Orleans and talked with first responders about the response to the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina and Rita. We cannot wait any longer to make this transition to digital communications. I am pleased that the committee is moving forward on this important issue. Another important issue that will be before the committee is Medicaid reform. I urge my colleagues not to make this a debate about dollars and cents, but about value and patients that require help and better health care through Medicaid. Governors have asked for this help…it is about bringing value to the mandatory populations that have no other help. The Medicaid program must be reoriented to deliver value for the money we do spend Governor after governor have used the word “unsustainable” when describing Medicaid. And when the program becomes unsustainable for states that means that the neediest are put at risk. This package makes substantial reforms to ensure the integrity and survivability of Medicaid. Included in this package are important reforms in Medicaid long term care to ensure Medicaid is not just a middle class entitlement, but a true safety net program. The bill also incorporates a bipartisan bill I have introduced, H.R. 3511, that would allow all states to establish long term care partnerships. Long term care partnerships promise to drive down the cost of Medicaid long term care giving consumers incentives to purchase long term care insurance to meet their long-term health care needs. I’m also pleased to have worked with Mike Rogers to develop a demonstration program that would give a limited number of states the ability to implement Medicaid Health Savings Accounts. Putting purchasing power in their hands of some Medicaid beneficiaries will improve their health, hold down costs, and lead to the creation of a true medical home. The focus of these accounts though, because they are consumer based, is less so on cost containment and more and more on prevention, improving beneficiary health. Medicaid was intended to be a safety net program but since it’s inception it has grown into an amorphous set of program rules, eligibility criteria, and mismatched outcomes to its stated goals. This bill will give states more flexibility to meet the needs of Medicaid patients and help reinforce a program at the breaking point. Governors are both adamant and bipartisan about flexibility. They want to tailor benefits and deliver the coverage that makes the most sense to most of their people. And those relying on Medicaid should have the choices already available in the private sector and by state and federal employees. If a plan is good enough for a police officer, surely it is good enough for some Medicaid beneficiaries. According to the bill, the most vulnerable populations can continue to use Medicaid as it exists today. Flexibility works. We know how well from welfare reform and from the Medicaid SCHIP program. A New York Times editorial summed it up best in yesterday’s edition in discussing an initiative by Florida Medicaid. The editorial notes, “Florida has been responsible and serious in preparing this test….The Florida experiment…would start by transferring more than 200,000 Medicaid beneficiaries in two counties to managed care plans. Certain categories of patients would have to join managed care plans, which they would select with the help of a ‘choice counselor’.” This groundbreaking reform will cover Medicaid patients with more real-world health coverage. The Editors go on to say, “Florida’s plan is the first to inject consumer choice into Medicaid, and it may well serve as a model for other states if it works out. There is a good reason to be wary of this approach, but advocates who support more traditional government spending can’t hope to make their case if they resist tests of other approaches. The experiment is surely worth the try.” It will make the difference in states managing the program in a way that prevents severe restrictions in the future. One-size-fits-all does exactly what you’d expect for costs – drives them up. And the consequence also is what you’d expect -- states freeze or limit eligibility. This is not a dollars and cents debate, it is a debate over improving the health of our most vulnerable Americans. We must put Medicaid back on track to ensure the viability of the safety net.
10.19.2005	The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) unanimously selected to place the Fort Worth Outpatient Clinic adjacent to the Tarrant County Resource Connection. Congressman Michael C. Burgess worked at the federal level on this issue in conjunction with officials with the VA North Texas Health Care System (VANTHCS), including Director Betty Bolin Brown and Robert Martin, Operations Administrator of the Fort Worth Outpatient Clinic, and Judi Ketchum, Director of the Tarrant County Resource Connection. Over a year ago, Congressman Michael C. Burgess met with Robert Martin, Acting Operations Administrator of the clinic and other VANTHCS Management Officials to discuss the potential locations where the new clinic would be opened. Upon reviewing the list, Congressman Burgess was quick to throw his support and influence behind the Resource Connection location. “Having a new, large and easily accessible facility to serve our veterans’ health care needs was a priority of mine from the beginning,” stated Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26). “The perfect scenario was constructing the clinic close to the Resource Connection where a multitude of community services are available and my Fort Worth congressional district office is located.” The Resource Connection's innovative “one-stop shopping” approach to public assistance makes it convenient for those in need of assistance to obtain the help that they need. The Resource Connection houses a variety of services from local, state and federal agencies, including: - The Texas Department of Human Services - U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Regional Office - Tarrant County Veterans Services - Tarrant County Housing Department - John Peter Smith South Clinic The campus is conveniently located with ready access to bus routes and several major highways in Tarrant County and provides a number of complementary services. “The agencies of the Resource Connection are excited about the addition of a VA Outpatient Clinic abutting the campus,” stated Judi Ketchum, Director of Tarrant County Resource Connection. “We feel the clinic is a perfect fit, and we look forward to having a new neighbor!” The current Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic, on West Rosedale Street, was designed for about 45,000 patient visits per year, but in 2005 it might serve just under triple that number. With the 25 vacant acres currently selected near the Resource Connection, the clinic would be able to expand to accommodate the large number of veterans now utilizing the clinic. There is a several month negotiation process between the VA and the current land owner. The timeline calls for the solicitation for proposals to develop the new clinic to go public in January 2006. Ideally, construction would begin by the middle of the summer of 2006. “Locating the Fort Worth Outpatient Clinic near the Resource Connection will help the more than 125,000 veterans in Tarrant County receive the care they truly deserve,” said Rep. Michael Burgess. “I will continue to push the Department of Veterans Affairs as this project continues to grow.”
10.19.2005	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE HEARING EIA'S REPORT ON SHORT-TERM ENERGY OUTLOOK AND WINTER FUELS OUTLOOK October 19, 2005 First, I want to thank Chairman Barton for convening this hearing today. In the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, many news reports and most of our constituents have focused on gasoline prices at the pump. While high gasoline prices are a very real concern, and will continue to be in the future, a looming issue is the expected increase in home heating costs this winter. With a quarter of U.S. natural gas capacity shut in after the hurricanes, natural gas utilities had to suspend filling their storage tanks. These stores, which are used for the winter home heating season, are currently 162 Bcf less than last year at this time. The supply shortage, when combined with the harsh winter that the National Weather Service is predicting, will result in higher prices for our constituents this winter. I am hopeful that the EIA can provide us with information that will help us better prepare for the difficult winter ahead.
10.06.2005	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD FCC’s E-rate Plans to Assist Gulf Coast Recovery: Ensuring Effective Implementation October 6, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for having this important hearing. Today, Congress is faced with the enormous responsibility of ensuring that the needs of our citizens in the Gulf Coast Region are adequately met, while at the same time ensuring that our taxpayers obtain the accountability that they deserve. I have full faith that this great nation will continue to rise to this challenge; therefore, it is pertinent that this committee continue the extensive oversight and investigation into the aftermath and recovery efforts of Hurricane Katrina. Through the Chairman’s leadership, over the past couple of years, this committee has had extensive oversight of the E-rate program. I continue to support the goals of the E-rate program, which would help bridge the technological gap and ensure universal telecommunication service to eligible schools and libraries by providing telecommunication services, Internet access, and internal connections at large discounts. At the same time, however, I also share the concerns of my colleagues with regards to this program. Even during the best of times, the E-rate program has been highly susceptible to waste, fraud and abuse. Over the past few weeks, leaders in both the private and public sectors have been employing innovative ideas to respond to the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Three weeks ago, FCC Chairman Kevin Martin announced an order that the FCC would provide approximately $211 million for the E-rate program to assist those harmed by Hurricane Katrina. While I do not question Chairman Martin’s motive, we have a duty to question the implementation of the order. We have a duty to our constituents, to the taxpayers, to ensure that the implementation is as effective as possible and that millions of dollars are not squandered. Primarily, I would like to know the measures that are being undertaken to guard against the abuses that were so rampant in the past. This is one of many issues that I hope will be addressed in this hearing. I look forward to hearing this answer and entering into a discussion that will hopefully provide further insight. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this hearing in which we can address some of these important concerns with regards to the E-rate program in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
09.28.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Michael Burgess (R-TX), made the following statement regarding Leader Tom DeLay: "In this country one is innocent unless proven guilty of a crime. The current situation encircling Leader DeLay turns the legal system on its head. We are now administering punishment after an unsubstantiated accusation. There has been no conviction." "Tom DeLay has hired a good legal team, and I have confidence in their ability. I believe Leader DeLay will prevail."
09.28.2005	Statement by the Honorable Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Guarding Against Waste, Fraud, and Abuse in Post-Katrina Relief and Recovery: The Plans of Inspectors General September 28, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for having this important hearing today. While many have called for an extensive investigation into the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, I feel that this committee should have the primary oversight investigatory powers over this complicated situation. Not only does this committee have both subpoena power and a history of bipartisanship, this committee’s jurisdiction will be significantly affected in coming months as the rebuilding and revitalization effort continues with programs related to public health, environmental cleanup, telecommunications, and economic development. Mr. Chairman, thank you for your leadership into this matter. Never before has our country been faced with the challenges, and perhaps opportunities, due to a natural disaster of this size and proportion. My prayers continue to go out to the victims of Hurricane Katrina, and I firmly believe that our great nation has shown in the past that it can come together during times of great crisis; we will continue to rise to that challenge again now. But we must do this in a way that ensures we have accountability, not delinquency. We cannot let the needs of our citizens in the Gulf Coast Region be compromised by inefficient bureaucratic delay. I share my colleagues’ deep concern with regards to the coordinating relief and recovery efforts at the federal, state, and local level. Today, I hope this committee is able to learn of the current oversight initiatives being undertaken at the represented agencies before us. Hurricane Katrina taught us all that we need a better system in place when responding to catastrophic events. As a physician, I am particularly interested in hearing from the representatives from the Department of Health and Human Services. I’m still waiting for answers to basic questions such as why help was turned away. I look forward to the opportunity to discuss this with you in further detail, and to also learn of anticipated regulatory changes needed to help ensure that our public health system isn’t endangered. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this crucial hearing in which we can address some of these essential concerns regarding post-Katrina relief and recovery.
09.26.2005	Congressman Michael C. Burgess welcomes Phuong-Khanh Jessica Nguyen-Trong to his Washington, DC staff. Jessica, a medical student at the University of Texas Southwestern, will serve as a Health Care Congressional Fellow. UT Southwestern has an exclusive agreement with the office for selecting fellows. Ms. Nguyen-Trong’s will focus her research and work on health care issues. Having recently completed her first year of medical studies at the University of Texas Southwestern, Ms. Nguyen-Trong’s involvement in the Texas Medical Association (TMA) and American Medical Association (AMA) made her an ideal candidate for the newly created position. Her experience extends beyond the medical field with extensive work in analyzing public policy. “I am honored that Jessica decided to join our team in Washington,” said Congressman Burgess. “Her unique public policy background and medical education will be an invaluable asset as we work on transforming America’s health care system.” During her undergraduate studies at Texas A&M University, she attended conferences on China-U.S. relations and “North Korea Today: Engagement or Confrontation” to gain a deeper insight into the United State’s foreign policies. Later, she helped develop a script, in Spanish, in conjunction with the Department of Performance Studies, which served to highlight the unemployment, health and other social problems of Coahuila State, Mexico. Jessica is fluent in four languages and graduated Summa Cum Laude and University Honors. Additionally, she gained a first hand experience in health care lobbying by being an active member of TMA and by participating in TMA’s “First Tuesdays” in Austin. “I have come to understand how intricately linked the practice of medicine is to public health legislation,” stated Jessica Nguyen-Trong. “I want to shape the environment in which future physicians and I will be practicing.” As and ob-gyn, Chairman of the Medicare and Medicaid Services Health Subcommittee and a member of the Health Subcommittee of the prestigious House Energy and Commerce Committee, Representative Burgess is intimately involved in writing and promoting legislation that can change the country’s outlook on medical issues. The new position of “Health Care Congressional Fellow” is the only one of its kind available in the State of Texas. “I believe the position will provide a necessary link between the medical community and Congress,” continued Congressman Burgess. “I hope Jessica is the first of many bright and civic-minded medical professionals who will participate in this new program.”
09.22.2005	Congressman Michael C. Burgess hosted Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Director Dr. Mark McClellan at the weekly Republican Policy Committee meeting. At the meeting, Rep. Burgess introduced Dr. Mark McClellan and spoke briefly about the work of CMS and its relationship with Members of Congress. Dr. McClellan spoke on a variety of health care related topics but focuses his remarks in Hurricane Katrina and the upcoming Medicare Prescription Drug Card program rollout, with enrollment beginning November 15, 2005. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services has acted to assure that the Medicare, Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Programs will flex to accommodate the emergency health care needs of beneficiaries and medical providers in the Hurricane Katrina devastated states. Many of the programs’ normal operating procedures will be relaxed to speed provision of health care services to the elderly, children and persons with disabilities who depend upon them. Because of hurricane damage to local health care facilities, many beneficiaries have been evacuated to neighboring states where receiving hospitals and nursing homes have no health care records, information on current health status or even verification of the person’s status as a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary. CMS is assuring those facilities that in this circumstance the normal burden of documentation will be waived and that the presumption of eligibility should be made. Dr. McClellan went on to discuss the Medicare rollout. Twice in the last month, Dr. McClellan traveled to the 26th Congressional District to host Medicare Events with Congressman Michael Burgess. On one of his recent visits, Rep. Burgess and Dr. McClellan were accompanied by Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt. The programs, the first in a series, are designed to educate the public about the upcoming program. “The important thing to remember is that the new Medicare Prescription Drug Card program is being delivered on time, at a lower cost,” stated Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “The benefits from this program are that Medicare beneficiaries will have cheaper premiums and lower deductibles.” The grassroots effort is an ongoing program that is nation wide and includes public forums, mail pieces and television advertisements. The program will be effective January 1, 2006. Congressman Michael Burgess will be hosting three additional Medicare events in November.
09.14.2005	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) and Rep. Mike Rogers (MI-108) introduced the Medicaid Health Opportunity Act of 2005 which would help many of our most vulnerable Americans, including families whose resources were devastated by Hurricane Katrina, as they work to manage their health care needs with Health Opportunity Accounts (HOAs). The Medicaid Health Opportunity Act of 2005 will give states the option to enroll Medicaid beneficiaries into flexible consumer based accounts. Health Opportunity Accounts will prioritize utilization of preventative services and controlling spending that will create financial incentives for both beneficiaries and the taxpayer. “Giving Medicaid beneficiaries more control over their care will not only improve their health in the long-run, but will also help shore up a floundering Medicaid program,” said Congressman Michael Burgess, one of the main sponsors of H.R. 3757. “Given the right incentives, Medicaid enrollees can better utilize their health care dollars to manage their care. Health Opportunity Accounts are just what states need return the focus on Medicaid on quality health outcomes, not the same bloated program that will become more and more of a burden for all involved.” The measure calls for a five-year, 10-state demonstration program that is voluntary and would support the following beneficiary goals:  Creating patient awareness of the high cost of medical care  Providing incentives to patients to seek preventive care services  Reducing inappropriate use of health care services  Enabling patients to take responsibility for health outcomes  Providing enrollment counselors and ongoing education activities Eligible individuals would basically include low-income individuals, who are not disabled or elderly, and low-income families and children. Unused state and federal contributions to the accounts would roll over each year and the accounts would remain available to individuals for withdrawals even after they leave the Medicaid program. At that point, individuals could use funds to purchase health insurance coverage, or for job training and tuition expenses. Although this type of program could be initiated now by states, the process is convoluted and timely. This would provide incentives and ease the process of implementation. The Medicaid Health Opportunity Act of 2005 is expected to be referred to the Energy and Commerce Committee of which Congressman Burgess is a member.
09.08.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Medicaid: Empowering Beneficiaries on the Road to Reform September 8, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for this hearing today. I think that this hearing is especially timely in light of the national disaster that has befallen the Gulf Coast. Millions of Americans have been displaced from their homes and hundreds of thousands of Americans will need some kind of assistance to get back on their feet. I believe it is essential that we empower Medicaid beneficiaries to meet their health needs and give them the ability to make more decisions about the care they need, not less. At this time, it is essential that Medicaid resources go to the neediest Americans. More resources need to be directed to the beneficiary and the bloated program that we currently have doesn’t do that as well as it should. Creating incentives to purchase long-term care or giving beneficiaries more choices to meet their health care needs is not victimizing the poor, elderly and disabled, as we’re sure to be accused of today by our colleagues on the other side of the aisle. Nobody here today is talking about eliminating this entitlement, but about improving the program to act as true safety-net. I look forward to working with the chairman and my colleagues on this committee to improve Medicaid by increasing quality of care and empowering beneficiaries. Thank you and I yield back.
09.07.2005	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE HEARING RECOVERING FROM KATRINA September 7, 2005 First, I want to thank Chairman Barton for convening this hearing today. The Chairman has indicated that this will be the first of a series of hearings to examine impact of Hurricane Katrina. In the wake of Hurricane Katrina, many of my constituents have contacted me with concerns about price gouging by gasoline retailers. It is tempting to be led by emotion and make quick decisions in order to show that we are "doing something." But I believe that the best thing to do in this situation is to study the issue as deliberately as possible. In the Dallas-Fort Worth area gasoline prices increased by anywhere between 30-50 cents per gallon in the last week alone. I know Chairman Upton indicated that he received reports that one point that gasoline increased by a dollar per gallon overnight in Michigan. At the same time, we know that Hurricane Katrina resulted in the suspension of 25 percent of U.S. oil production and took 25 percent of U.S. refining capacity offline. Since domestic oil and gas refineries have operated at nearly 100 percent capacity over the last few years, the loss of even one U.S. refinery would have reduced supply and increased prices at the pump. We need to determine if the problem is price gouging or a problem with supply. We need to make sure to fix the right problem. Trying to fix the wrong problem can only make things worse - we all remember the long lines at the gas pump in the 1970s. If it is determined that illegal price gouging has occurred, I will support prosecution of wrongdoers to the utmost of my ability. I think it is unconscionable that opportunists would take advantage of this national tragedy for financial gain. But, it is important that we, as policy makers, avoid knee-jerk reactions which can translate into untenable public policy. We should examine the strategy in place for dealing with this type of emergency situation; and if no such strategy exists, we should work to develop one. We need to learn from this experience and determine how we can prevent this loss of supply in the future. In conclusion, I'd like to again thank the Chairman for holding this hearing. I look forward to hearing from the witnesses who are appearing before us.
08.05.2005	Before departing for the August district work period, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) presented his Freedom Flat Tax Act (H.R. 1040) to the House Committee on Ways and Means Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures. Rep. Burgess was one of seven Members who presented their proposals for tax reform to the Committee under the leadership of Chairman David Camp (R-MI). Other members testifying were: Rep. Richard Neal (D-MA), Rep. Phil English (R-PA), Rep. John Linder (R-GA), Rep. Rahm Emanuel (D-IL), Rep. Dennis Kucinich (D-OH), and Rep. Tim Bishop (D-NY). Congressman Burgess spoke for five minutes about his Freedom Flat Tax Act, explaining how the flat tax would conform to the principles for tax reform set forth by President George W. Bush - simplicity, fairness and pro-economic growth. “Families need more money, but they also need more time" said Congressman Michael Burgess. “My bill will give them both.” Rep. Michael Burgess also credited Former Majority Leader Dick Armey and Former presidential candidate Steve Forbes for their work on the flat tax.
08.04.2005	In the flurry of activity on Capitol Hill prior to the August District work period, Congressman Michael C. Burgess introduced H.R. 3511, the Medicaid State Long-Term Care Partnership Program Act of 2005 with John Peterson (R-PA), Earl Pomeroy (D-N.D.), Bobby Jindal, (R-LA) and Nancy Johnson, (R-CT) as cosponsors. The Long Term Care Partnership bill works to address the country’s growing long term care crisis. With medical advancements increasing ever day, Americans are living longer, more productive lives than ever. From this increased longevity has emerged a new health care conundrum for legislators to solve – long term care. Per the 2005 Cost of Care Survey conducted by Genworth Financial, the cost of “Nursing Home Private Room Average Daily Rate” in the Dallas, Texas region (comprising Ellis, Tarrant, Wise, Delta, Kaufman, Collin, Dallas, Rockwall, Johnson, Parker, Hunt and Denton counties), is $147.83. The cost of a “Semi-Private Room” is $107.50. Currently, a large portion of the burden for paying for long term care insurance falls on a state’s Medicaid program. Long term care costs are rapidly becoming untenable at the current rate of growth. People are often not aware of the staggering costs associated with long term care. H.R. 3511 will help ensure the sustainability of the Medicaid program and give consumers more choice in long term health care needs. Specifically, Congressman Burgess’ bill would expand Long Term Care Partnership Insurance to all 50 states. Long Term Care Partnership Insurance allows individuals to purchase qualified state policies to meet their long term health care needs as they age. The unique nature of these policies allows enrollees to protect their assets if the insurance coverage is exhausted and they have to look to state Medicaid programs to cover their long term care expenses. “Long Term Care Partnership Insurance will change the way Americans finance their long term health care,” said Rep. Michael C. Burgess. “This innovative approach will protect the hard-earned assets and hopefully alleviate the financial concerns associated with financing long term care. Families should not become poverty stricken in order to pay for their loved ones.” The original program was limited to 4 states (Connecticut, New York, Indiana and California) in 1993. The program has been quite successful in each state. These public-private partnerships encourage advanced planning by incentivizing the purchase of long term care insurance and will help states save money in Medicaid long term care costs. “This program provides benefits to each American faced with the dilemma of financing long term health care and to all 50 states that must grapple with a Medicaid program bankrupting their coffers,” stated Congressman Burgess. For more information on Texas’ long term care situation, please visit the Texas Department of Aging and Disabilities website at Click here to go there .
08.03.2005	Infant mortality is still a significant cause of death in the United States. In 2002, the infant morality rate in the United States reached 7 deaths per 1000 live births, the first increase since 1958, ranking the United States 28th among industrialized nations in the rate of infant mortality. Among minorities, the problem is especially devastating--the mortality rate for African American women is more than double that of Caucasian women. Congressman Michael C. Burgess introduced House Resolution 402 directing Congress to observe September 2005 as Infant Mortality Awareness Month. The goals of Infant Mortality Awareness Month are to increase national awareness of infant mortality and contributing factors and urge community leaders to assist in efforts to meet the objective of reducing the rate of infant mortality in this country by 2010. “As an obstetrician, I understand how important pre-natal health is to the well-being of babies,” said Rep. Michael Burgess. “I hope that this resolution helps increase awareness of infant mortality and how as a community we need to do a better job in protecting the health and well-being of mothers and babies. I look forward to working with community leaders to improve the maternal and infant health in the 26th District of Texas, and indeed the nation.”
07.29.2005	U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) today voted in favor of the 2006 Transportation Authorization Bill, increasing Texas’ rate of return for federal transportation dollars. The bill passed 412-8. As a member of the House Transportation Committee in the 108th Congress, Rep. Burgess was an early advocate to bring home more of Texas’ hard-earned tax dollars. “The long overdue passage of this year’s transportation bill is an accomplishment for Texas’ transportation system. Improving roads, growing our rate-of-return and increasing safety measures ultimately benefits Texas,” Congressman Michael Burgess said. Key among issues for Texas lawmakers was the increase of the rate-of-return for federal transportation dollars. Currently, for every $1 Texans send to Federal Highway Administration, they receive only 88 cents back. The 2006 Transportation Authorization Bill will allow for a gradual increase in the national rate of return from 90.5 percent in 2005 to 92.0 percent in 2009. The bill designates $286.4 billion to be distributed over the six-year life of the legislation among highway, transit and safety projects throughout the country. Because of Texas' proximity to Mexico and being at the crossroads for national trade, the state faces unique transportation challenges. Because of this situation, H.R. 3 directs $211.8 million to Texas to address border transportation needs. The Borders and Corridors Program under this bill has been dramatically modified to reflect the growth in travel, largely due to commercial activity, along the border region. The changes reflect a commitment to safely develop this vital corridor between the United States and Mexico. Congressman Michael Burgess was also able to secure his legacy issues from last term, namely his design-build concept and use of toll credits. “Design-Build” is a term to describe an innovative project delivery method that combines the design and construction of a toll road project into one contract rather than the traditional “Design-Bid-Build” method of having individual contracts for separate, sequential phases of a project. Congressman Burgess seeks to modify existing law give states additional flexibility to design and build roads concurrently, not sequentially. “By integrating the design-build portion of a project, we can complete projects in a more efficient and inexpensive manner,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “This philosophy of road building would bring relief to dangerous and congested roads that can’t wait another 20 years to get fixed.” Rep. Michael Burgess played an integral role in the development of the House of Representatives’ bill and offered an amendment on the floor. The amendment allows states to receive transportation development credits (“toll credits”) in a timely manner so they have available resources to reinvest in their transportation systems without constantly requesting additional federal monies to meet their needs. Toll credits recognize the non-federal state and local investment in toll facilities to help address traffic congestion in urbanized areas. Toll credits build on that state and local investment to provide financing options for needed highway, transit, and highway safety projects. "Congressman Burgess stuck with this from the minute he arrived on Capitol Hill. Burgess's ideas to multiply the value of our federal dollars are marbled throughout the bill: faster project delivery, new tolling options, transportation development credits, and inducements for private investment in public infrastructure. He has left an indelible print on this legislation and Texas will benefit from more options to fight congestion," said Ric Williamson, Chairman of the Texas Transportation Commission. Included in the six-year plan of the transportation bill are seven projects designed to improve the transportation system and structure in North Texas. Funding has been guaranteed for the following projects. Dollars 26th District of Texas Projects $ 5,600,000 Widen from 4 to 6 lanes Interstate 35 East from Lake Lewisville to Loop 288 $800,000 Union Pacific Railroad Bridge replacement over Business US 287, Fort Worth $800,000 Precinct Line Road Bridge $1,600,000 Tower 55 CMAQ Congestion and Preliminary Engineering Study $1,600,000 Add shoulders to FM 156 from Ponder to Krum $1,600,000 Interstate Highway 820 Widening Project $6,500,000 Relocation FM 156; Alliance Airport TOTAL - $18,500,000
07.28.2005	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) voted in favor of a national energy policy. The conference report on H.R. 6, The Energy Policy Act of 2005 passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 275-156. Congress has been working on legislation that would put such a policy in place since 2001, and it was ranked as a high priority for the 109th Congress. Both the House and Senate passed their respective versions of the bill earlier in the year, before conferring and bringing the final version for a vote today. From a national perspective, the bill decreases American’s dangerous dependence on foreign oil by increasing domestic exploration and development on non-park federal lands and by authorizing expansion of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to 1 billion barrels. “With our ever-increasing dependence on foreign oil, I knew it was vital to our national security, and our economy, to make the United States self-sufficient when it comes to our energy needs,” stated Rep. Michael C. Burgess. “The time has come that we completely revamp our system and focus on a national policy that will benefit all Americans.” The Energy Act of 2005 is of particular interest to North Texas because it ensures that energy production in the Barnett Shale, an unconventional natural gas source in the North Texas region, can continue to provide natural gas for Texas and the nation. The Act also helps the State of Texas by preserving ERCOT’s (Electricity Reliability Council of Texas) exemption from Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulation allowing this authority to continue to reside at the state level with the Public Utility Commission. “In Texas, we are fortunate that the grid operation and reliability is managed by ERCOT,” stated Rep. Michael Burgess. “ERCOT has put tough, enforceable reliability standards in place which have ensured that Texans have ample access to electricity,” stated Burgess. An amendment penned by Congressman Michael Burgess is included in the final conference bill. The amendment will increase the domestic supply of natural gas, “My amendment would authorize a study to identify and quantify low pressure/low volume natural gas resources and develop incentives to keep them in production,” explained Rep. Burgess. “As natural gas demand continues to rise faster than natural gas supply, I believe that that maximizing production from low-pressure gas is an efficient, environmentally friendly way to increase our domestic natural gas supply.” In addition, the energy bill requires that dual gasoline-alternative fuel federal fleet vehicles are operated using the alternative fuel system and encourages the hybrid retrofit and conversion of conventional vehicle engines. Congressman Burgess, a proud owner of a Toyota Prius is a strong supporter of hybrid vehicles. This year's energy bill also strongly supports President Bush's hydrogen initiative. While the conference report enhances production from traditional energy sources, it also encourages the use of clean-coal, wind and other renewable while promoting energy efficiency. Several energy efficiency groups have praised the provisions in the energy conference report. The Alliance to Save Energy estimates those provisions would shave between 10 and 40 percent off the anticipated growth of energy demand by 2015, and the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy predicts that conservation measures will save 50,000 megawatts (MW) of peak electricity demand by 2020. That is the equivalent of 170 300-MW power plants. One key conservation component included in the bill is the emissions reduction technology grant program, which will help reduce the amount of air pollution emitted from trucks and trains when idling. Mobile source emissions - cars, trucks and trains - are the source of much of the air pollution in the Metroplex. Additionally, the program provides incentives for truck stop electrification allowing heavy duty trucks to “plug-in” at a rest stop to operate air conditioners and other devices rather than leave the engine running. “In addition to the thousands of cars and trucks on our roads, there is significant railroad traffic through Tower 55 in Fort Worth and the Alliance Corridor in Denton and Tarrant Counties,” noted Congressman Michael Burgess. “This emissions reduction provision will help to clean up our air in North Texas,” said Rep. Michael Burgess. The Act increases funding for the Department of Energy’s “Clean Cities” program, which provides grants to state and local governments to acquire alternative fueled and fuel cell vehicles, hybrids and ultra-low sulfur diesel vehicles. This will assist localities reduce emissions from automobiles and comply with the Clean Air Act requirements. “The bill was a longtime in the making, but well worth the wait,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “This is a win-win for my constituents.”
07.27.2005	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) voted for the Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act (S. 544) designed to encourage the anonymous reporting of errors to newly-created patient safety organizations, which will analyze the information and, working with doctors, identify the changes necessary to prevent these errors. The bill passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 428 to 3. The bill passed the Senate by a voice vote on Thursday, July, 21, 2005. The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess: “Medical errors are an unfortunate aspect to the delivery of modern health care. The bill uniquely combines a non-punitive backdrop where doctors can share information with patient safety specialist who monitor and look for solutions and improvements of the system. All information will continue to be available to the public and consumer organizations will receive information on medical errors, trends and other details concerning medical mistakes reported.” “The litigious environment that doctors and patient live in today serve neither well. This bill will increase transparency in medicine, encourage reporting, and assist in targeted quality improvements.” “I’m very pleased that the House and Senate were able to work out differences on this important legislation and clear the way for President Bush to sign it into law.”
07.26.2005	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) issued the following statement congratulating the crew of Space Shuttle Discovery and their support team at NASA for today’s successful lift off into space: “Congratulations to all those who worked so hard to get our shuttle program back on tract.” “As a former Member of the House Science Committee, I specifically acknowledge the wonderful work of the scientists, technicians, and crew of Discovery who uphold the great tradition of our space program. “Barely one month into my first term, the Shuttle Columbia and her crew were lost over the skies of Texas. The return to flight was pursued in a careful, methodical fashion, with a mission of strict adherence to safety. “On momentous occasions like today, we remember those who have sacrificed their lives, and we can honor them by continuing America’s quest to observe and learn from our galaxy and universe. “On Wednesday, January 28, 2004, I introduced House Resolution 507 to commemorate the crew of the Space Shuttle Columbia and their final mission. Today, Tuesday, July 26, 2005, I am deeply moved as the shuttle returns to space –it is an impressive and hopeful moment for America.” Today’s shuttle launch is the first since the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster on February 1, 2003. In the wake of that tragedy, NASA scientists made numerous improvements on the Shuttle, and have greatly increased the safety of the crew. The Columbia Accident Investigation Board made 15 recommendations implemented by NASA, and with the 29 other improvements to launch, orbit, and reentry, Discovery is ready to return Americans to flight. The Discovery launch is NASA’s 114th shuttle mission, and the crew will conduct three spacewalks or Extravehicular Activities.
07.20.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Full Committee Mark-Up July 20, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this important mark-up today. The bills before us today are critical elements in helping the uninsurable and improving the quality of health care in this country by improving patient safety, reforming the insurance market, and improving the tracking of prescriptions. I am disappointed that this Committee is not taking up medical liability reform legislation at this time, but I look forward to working with Chairman Barton and Chairman Deal to address this critical issue in the near future. Thank you and I yield back.
07.18.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. NIH Legislation Hearing July 18, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing today. I know that NIH reorganization is one of your highest priorities and I think we can see the fruits of your labor before us today. I look forward to hearing Dr. Zerhouni’s comments on the draft bill. Upon initial review, I think the draft strikes a balance of achievable reforms. Granting the director greater budgetary authority will go a long way in redirecting research priorities at NIH. With additional oversight and authority, the NIH director can plan in a more strategic manner and respond to research emergencies when needed. Having visited the NIH, talked to the researchers there, and talked to Dr. Zerhouni on numerous occasions, you get a real sense of how precious the NIH is to this country. The research conducted by NIH is truly groundbreaking. Be it a cure for cancer or a greater understanding of the Human Genome, the NIH has a proven record of innovation. Improvements can be made in its managerial structure, but this bill will only improve the quality of research conducted at NIH and the health of all Americans.
07.14.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Health Subcommittee Mark-Up Public Health Service Act July 14, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this important mark-up today. The bills before us today are critical elements in helping the uninsurable and improving the quality of health care in this country. First, patient safety. H.R. 3205 will hopefully complete the hard work of the committee that was left uncompleted at the end of the 108th Congress. We may disagree about the magnitude of medical mistakes, but I think we can all agree that one is too many. H.R. 3205 takes a common-sense approach to improving patient safety by establishing a collaborative infrastructure to report and disseminate patient safety data. I also applaud Mr. Bilirakis for his approach to incentivizing the use of electronic medical records and information technology. Requiring the Secretary of HHS to develop voluntary standards will give medical practitioners greater guidance in this often confusing and frustrating arena. Making start up grants available to practitioners will also lessen the capital cost of these types of systems. Secondly, I would like to thank Mr. Shadegg for introducing H.R. 3204. State high risk pools help provide health coverage to previously uninsurable individuals, improving their health, reducing the burden that would normally fall to the state, and restore a degree of hope for enrollees. When the high risk pool assistance fund was originally conceived, my home state of Texas was ineligible for funding because of requirements relating to the level of premium charged by state pools. I’m very pleased that he remedied this oversight and I commend him for bringing H.R. 3204 forward today. Thank you and I yield back.
07.13.2005	"I know I, like many Americans, was looking forward to today's launch of the Discovery Space Shuttle. Although today will not be that day, I am confident, as are the scientists and engineers of NASA that the shuttle will return to flight soon. I do hope to return to Florida for that momentous occasion. It is important to remember that safety comes first, and that we cannot tolerate any discrepancy in the face of an unknown potential problem. Catching a potential problem, reporting it, and acting responsibly are essential elements of why this will be a successful mission for NASA and a proud moment for America when Discovery takes flight."
07.07.2005	The following statement may be attributed to Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) concerning today’s terrorist attach in the heart of London, UK: My prayers and condolences go out to the victims and families of the terrorist attack in London. We all thank those first responders and medical professionals who reacted swiftly to the emergency, at times placing themselves in jeopardy. These acts of such astonishing cruelty show a stark difference between those who strive for harmony, and those who wish only to bring chaos and fear to the world. While bombs exploded around London killing innocent people, important work was being conducted by President George W. Bush, Prime Minister Tony Blair and other international leaders gathered in Scotland for the G8 Summit. While bombers calculated means of destroying lives, participants at the G8 Summit were searching for solutions to world poverty and global environmental issues. In times such as these, people should recognize that evil knows no borders, knows no limits and knows no compassion. Those around the globe that value freedom must continue to persevere even in the darkest of times. No one can truly be prepared for such devastation and pure malevolence, but the United Kingdom can always look to the United States as an ally resolved to stand firm in the war on terrorism. Homeland Security Advisory System: General threat level remains at ELEVATED (Yellow). For the mass transit portion of the transportation sector which includes only regional and inter-city passenger rail, subways and metropolitan bus systems. - HIGH (Orange) Last update: July 7, 2005
07.01.2005	Congressman Michael C. Burgess released this statement concerning Kelo v. City of New London: “I am an original cosponsor of H.R. 3135, Private Property Rights Protection Act, authored by House Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner (R-WI). This bill prohibits the use of federal funds for any projects in which states and localities use eminent domain for economic development purposes. Additionally, the bill prohibits the use of federal funds to enforce the eminent domain power over that project. Also prohibits the federal government from using economic development as a reason for exercising its power of eminent domain.” “This legislation is essential to ensuring that homes, farms and other private property cannot be bulldozed in egregious government land grabs which benefit other private individuals whose claim to the land is that of greater wealth will increase tax revenues.” “Our Fifth Amendment rights are stated clearly in the Constitution - private property cannot be taken for public use, without just compensation. A new shopping mall does not constitute public use and the acceptance of destroying someone’s home.”
06.30.2005	The U.S. House of Representatives have accomplished what many doubted was possible. Before the July 4th District work period begins, the Members of the House have managed to pass all ten of their appropriations bills providing ample time for the Senate to complete their bills. Included in these ten bills is funding for defense, homeland security, transportation, health and human services, and agriculture. “This is truly a great feat,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess (R-TX). “Through the strong appropriations chairmanship Jerry Lewis (R-CA), the House has worked feverishly to pass these necessary bills. Now we have the necessary time to work on more complex and immediate issues of concern including Social Security and Medicaid reform. The appropriations process is a yearly endeavor that allows the government to continue operating. Both the House and the Senate pass separate bills and then must come together in conference to meld the bill language and present a piece of legislation to send to the President. “This is the very first budget since Ronald Reagan where there has been a decrease in discretionary spending,” remarked Rep. Michael Burgess. “And furthermore, this is the first budget since before Ronald Reagan where there has been a slow down in the increase of mandatory spending. As a conservative, I’m proud of this accomplishment.” Locally, Congressman Michael Burgess ensured that the University of North Texas (UNT) will continue to receive funding for the Advanced Research and Technology Institute. In the House version of the FY06 Defense Appropriations, UNT will receive $4.6 million. To date, Representative Burgess has secured $9 million for the center. The House Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations Act, H.R. 2863, passed by a vote of 398-19 on Monday, June 20th. The Senate will take up its own DoD Appropriations bill, and the differences will be decided in conference.
06.27.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. H.R. 2355, The Health Care Choice Act of 2005 June 27, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for this hearing today. Over the past several years, health insurance costs have sky-rocketed, in large part because of market inflation, additional insurance market regulation, and a broken medical liability system. Small businesses and American families are finding it more difficult to meet this increasing burden. Recent developments though where the government has gotten out of the way of the insurance market have born some promising results: enrollment in Health Savings Accounts have exceeded expectations, businesses are taking care of more flexible, tax preferred arrangements like Health Reimbursement Arrangements, and growth in consumer based Flexible Spending Accounts continues at a good rate. Today we will be talking about another bill that would get government out of the way of families and businesses. Because of some state insurance requirements, health insurance is not priced at reasonably equitable rates from state to state. For instance, a health insurance policy in Maine for one family is affordable by most standards, where it would be unattainable by that same family in New Jersey due to state mandates and other contributing factors. I think we are moving in the right direction when we remove the regulatory barriers that confront consumers and give them a true marketplace to make real cost comparisons. Mr. Shadegg and his staff should be commended for their hard work in this area. One concern I do have however relates to certain state statutes on prompt payment of health insurance claims. Many states have some degree of protection for providers when it comes to the prompt payment of claims, and I am interested to learn how this is addressed by the Health Care Choice Act. In many circumstances, states have implemented carefully crafted compromises on prompt pay and I want to ensure this bill would not undue these hard-fought agreements. Thank you. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses and I yield back.
06.22.2005	U.S. Rep. Michael C. Burgess, R-Flower Mound, is proud to announce that the following outstanding young people have accepted appointments to one of our nation’s service academies. Recently, at his Lewisville District Office and at his Town Hall meeting in Richland Hills, Rep. Burgess presented the appointees with a Special Certificate of Congressional Recognition and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their appointment. "I was pleased to nominate these incredible young men and women who will be the future leaders of our armed forces and America,” stated Rep. Michael Burgess. “I am even more delighted that they have accepted this challenge." Students requesting appointments to the U.S. Service Academies are evaluated on a variety of criteria including academic background, physical abilities, personal recommendations, and an evaluation, interview and ranking by the Academy Advisory Board. U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY Stephen Barnes, a recent graduate of American Heritage Academy – Carrollton, is the son of Mr. Andy and Dr. Kathy Barnes. Johnathan Dietz, a recent graduate of Prosper High School, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. James Dietz. U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD Tim Boyce, a recent graduate of Flower Mound High School, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Timothy Boyce. Adam Gaston, a recent graduate of Newman Smith High School – Carrollton, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Tyner Gaston. Andrew Knudson, a recent graduate of Flower Mound High School, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Steve Knudson. Andrew Konosky, of Bedford, a recent graduate of Trinity High School – Euless, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Carl Konosky. Rebecca Shaw, a recent graduate of Little Elm High School, is the daughter of Mr. Thomas Shaw and Ms. Suzanne August. Steven Shaw, a recent graduate of Little Elm High School, is the son of Mr. Thomas Shaw and Ms. Suzanne August. Thomas Tellson of Bedford, a recent graduate of Trinity High School Euless, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Thomas Tellson. Nathaniel Thayer, a recent graduate of Carroll Senior High School – Southlake, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. George Thayer. Matthew Vegel, a recent graduate of Carroll Senior High School – Southlake, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Anton Vegel. U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO Steven Beaulieu of Bedford, a recent graduate of Trinity High School – Euless, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Walt Beaulieu. Kyle Bruton of Hurst, a recent graduate of Grapevine High School, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Steven Bruton. Thomas Coker, of Colleyville, a student at Northwest Preparatory School – Crestline, CA, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Donn Coker. Jason Correll of Argyle, a student at Embry Riddle Aeronautical University – Daytona Beach, FL, is the son of Col. & Mrs. Mark Correll. Bruce Hrabak, a recent graduate of Grapevine High School, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Bruce Hrabak. Jason Koller of Roanoke, a home schooled student, is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Koller. John Lee of Bedford, a recent graduate of L.D. Bell High School - Hurst, is the son of Mr. and Mrs. James Lee. Kris Loewecke, a recent graduate of Keller High School, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Brian Loewecke. Julie Luce, a recent graduate of Denton High School, is the daughter of Mr. & Mrs. Larry Luce. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY Hunter Blue, a recent graduate of Hebron High School - Carrollton, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. David Blue. Andrew Christensen, a recent graduate of Lewisville High School, is the son of Mr. Bruce Christensen and Ms. Laura Knutty. Jerry Schroeder of Lewisville, a recent graduate of Marcus High School – Flower Mound, is the son of Mr. & Mrs. Gerald Schroeder.
06.22.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Medicaid Drug Reimbursement Hearing June 22, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing today, and I want to thank our witnesses from joining us here. This is an extremely timely hearing as this committee considers different options that will recognize some savings in the Medicaid program. About 10 percent of annual Medicaid expenditures come from prescription drugs, an optional benefit that all states have chosen to provide to their beneficiaries. I think we can all agree that pharmaceuticals play a vital role in the practice of medicine today. I shudder to think how my grandfather would treat patients decades ago without the benefit of pharmaceuticals. A drug program is a necessary component of the Medicaid program, just as this Congress determined it was a necessary component to add to the Medicare program just over 18 months ago. That said, we need to get a handle on how drugs are paid for in the Medicaid program. The dizzying system of Medicaid pricing uses no standardized benchmark and is complicated by a maze of differing co-payments and dispensing fees. I believe that we need a better benchmark for drug pricing than Average Wholesale Price. An alternative system to the current one needs to be fair to the pharmacists and the manufacturer, but the health needs of the beneficiary should be our primary concern. I look forward to the testimony here today. Thank you and I yield back.
06.21.2005	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD The United Nations Oil-for-Food Program: A Review of the 661 Sanctions Committee June 21, 2005 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for holding this important hearing. As we all know, the United Nations originally established the Oil-for-Food program for the noble cause of aiding and providing for the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people trapped under Saddam Hussein’s regimen. This program was quickly warped into a financial scandal of epic proportions. It has turned into an international crisis, and I sincerely hope that this committee will continue its oversight regarding this serious matter. At our last hearing we focused on the Hussein’s Regime use of oil allocations to accentuate divisions within the U.N. Security Council as a means of undermining sanctions. I look forward today to examining these divisions from the perspective of individuals who actually worked within the 661 Committee. Particularly, I would like to discuss if there were divisions among the Permanent Member States within the 661Committee concerning the Oil-for-Food program. Also, I would like to examine whether certain Permanent Member States resisted remedial efforts to eliminate many of the abuses of the Oil-for-Food program perpetrated by the Regime. I realize that these concerns may have to be further addressed during the closed session, but I look forward to getting to the bottom of this grave issue. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this hearing on this crucial investigation.
06.20.2005	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) voted in favor of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal year (FY) 2006 providing $408.9 billion. This is roughly 3.1 percent more than appropriated in the last fiscal cycle. “The number one priority for Members of Congress is to ensure America’s safety at home and abroad,” stated Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “This year’s Defense Appropriations bill is a strong statement of our commitment to our soldiers and to anyone who supports global democracy.” Locally, Congressman Michael Burgess ensures that the University of North Texas (UNT) receives continued funding for the Advanced Research and Technology Institute. In the House version of the FY06 Defense Appropriations, UNT will receive $4.6 million. To date, Representative Burgess has secured $9 million for the center. The House Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations Act, H.R. 2863, passed by a vote of 398-19. The Senate will take up its own DoD Appropriations bill, and the differences will be decided in conference. Details from the appropriations bill:  Military Personnel $84.1 billion  Operation and Maintenance $116.1 billion  Procurement $76.8 billion  Research, Development, Test and Evaluation $71.7 billion  Revolving and Management Funds $2.8 billion  Other Department of Defense Programs $2.5 billion  Emergency Wartime Appropriation $45.3 billion Troop Support: Fully funds the 3.1% military pay raise and end strength requirements proposed in President George Bush's budget. There was also an increase of $20 million for the military’s Family Advocacy program to fight domestic violence. Bridge Fund: The bill includes $45.3 billion in emergency funding for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, available on October 1, 2005. The fund is designed to cover 6 months worth of contingency operations costs in the global war on terrorism. The majority of this funding – $36.7 billion, or 80% – is provided for military pay and operation and maintenance accounts. Funds are also provided for the following: Replacement of equipment losses: Approximately $2.8 billion is added to procurement accounts for Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force equipment due to wartime losses and degradation. This includes funding for additional Humvees, trucks, radios, electronic jammers, Tomahawk cruise missiles and ammunition. Personnel protection items: An additional $1.2 billion is provided for personnel force protection items and gears for troops in the field such as body armor. Insurance and Death Gratuities: A total of $230 million is provided to cover costs of the enhanced insurance and death gratuity benefits approved in the FY 2005 war supplemental. Army Reset: The recommendations propose a total of $2.9 billion for Army equipment rehabilitation (unit and depot maintenance). Other Items: Authority is provided for the Iraq and Afghanistan security force training programs, as well as the Commander’s Emergency Response program (CERP), to receive $500 million. Recruiting and retention activities are allocated $735 million. Army Ground Systems: The Army’s Future Combat System (FCS) research and development program is funded at $3.0 billion. The Non-Line of Sight Cannon (NLOS) program would receive an increase of $50 million. The Stryker vehicle program is fully funded at the requested level of $878 million for 240 vehicles. Navy Shipbuilding: The President’s request included funding for 4 ships: one Virginia-class submarine, one LPD-17 amphibious ship, one Littoral Combat ship (LCS), and one T-AKE cargo ship. The recommendations fully fund these and add 4 additional ships: one DDG-51 class destroyer ($1.4 billion); two LCS ships (an increase of $440 million); and one additional T-AKE ($380 million). Included is a recommendation to cut the Navy’s DD(X) destroyer program by a total of about $1 billion - the combination of a reduction of $0.7 billion for advance procurement and $0.3 billion out of R&D; $670 million would remain in R&D. The recommendation is consistent with the levels approved by the House for the DD(X) program in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006. Navy/Marine Corps Aviation: The bill fully funds the request for 130 aircraft, including 42 F/A-18’s, compared to 115 total aircraft provided in fiscal year 2005. The bill fully funds the V-22 aircraft procurement program ($1.5 billion for 11 aircraft). The VXX Presidential helicopter replacement program is fully funded, as requested ($0.9 billion). Air Force programs: The bill would include purchasing 25 F/A-22 aircraft, as requested, and provides $3.2 billion. The C-17 program is fully funded (15 aircraft at $3.5 billion). The bill restores funding for the C-130J multiyear procurement program by transferring funding from the Navy to the Air Force; the Air Force will procure 9 aircraft while the Navy will procure 4 tanker variants. The Joint Strike Fighter (a joint program with the Navy) is funded at almost $5 billion in R&D, as requested, but a reduction of $152 million for advance procurement is made due to development delays and since the first production aircraft will not actually be purchased until FY08. Finally, roughly $120 million is reduced from the request for Global Hawk funding due to an anticipated slowdown in the production schedule. Missile Defense: The bill provides a total of $7.6 billion for ballistic missile defense, a decrease of $143 million from the budget request. The recommendation does, however, include additional funding for Asymmetric Warfare Initiative and S-Band radar. The Kinetic Energy Intercept program is funded at the President’s requested level of $225 million. Space Programs: Funds most of the Administration’s request for major space programs. However, the bill makes reductions to the request for two programs; Space radar (-$126 million) and transformational communications satellite (-$400 million). Remaining funds for these programs are for research and development activities, and for activities to reduce the costs for potential future procurements. Terminations: The bill terminates funding for the Joint Air to Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM). The President requested $150 million for the program. The bill provides $2 million to close out existing contracts. The missile has repeatedly failed reliability and performance tests. Drug Interdiction and Counter-drug Activities: The bill provides $907 million for DOD’s counter-drug activities and to fight narcoterrorism, $11 million over the request and roughly last year’s level.
06.15.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Medicaid Reform: The National Governors Association’s Bipartisan Roadmap June 15, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing today, and I want to thank Governors Huckabee and Warner for being here today. I think we can all agree that Medicaid is a program in crisis. In 2005, the Medicaid program has grown to become a program that costs the federal and state governments $330 million a year while covering over 50 million beneficiaries. States grapple with the costs of the program, providers struggle to participate in Medicaid, and beneficiaries ask whether it is meeting their health needs. We should not shy away from reviewing this program to ensure it is meeting its stated mandate: to provide quality care for the disabled, poor, elderly, and frail. But is the program meeting this mandate? In terms of sheer magnitude, the Medicaid program has become nearly unworkable and growth is almost a constant. The program cannot continue to grow at its current rate and meet the health needs that it covers. Often times, health care policy is about identifying acceptable trade-offs. We have come to a point with Medicaid that we will be pushed to make trade-offs. We need to ensure that Medicaid serves as a true safety net and not an economic development program for states to continue to game. I look forward to the testimony here today. Thank you and I yield back.
06.14.2005	Last week, Congressman Michael C. Burgess met with Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Michael Leavitt. During the meeting, Rep. Burgess and Secretary Leavitt discussed critical, upcoming health care issues including Medicaid reform, the Medicare prescription drug roll out beginning in 2006, community health centers and health information technology standards. The meeting was part of a weekly series of meetings where Congressman Burgess meets with distinguished government, political and corporate leaders to discuss the news of the day. “With my focus on health care, I was particular honored to have time discussing a variety of subjects with Secretary Leavitt,” remarked Congressman Burgess. “Congress and the Administration must continue to work together to improve and strengthen America’s health care system. We have the best system, and I want to ensure we stay that way.”
06.10.2005	The Freedom Flat Tax Act of 2005 Submitted by: U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) 1721 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC June 10, 2005 I would like to thank President Bush for his leadership on tax reform, as well as the members of this panel for their service. I believe that this is one of the most important issues facing our nation today. I am pleased to have the opportunity to offer my Freedom Flat Tax proposal to the Tax Reform Panel for consideration. I would first like to associate myself with former Majority Leader Armey's written comments, which he submitted to this panel during the May 12, 2005 hearing in Washington, DC. In 1996, long before I even considered running for Congress, I picked up a copy of Dr. Armey's book and read it from cover to cover. At that time, I believed that it was a common sense proposal and I still believe that today. I have enormous respect for Leader Armey and am grateful for his leadership on this issue. I am glad that he continues to champion for the flat tax because I believe that his expertise is invaluable to the debate. Today I offer the Freedom Flat Tax Act (H.R. 1040 in the 109th Congress) to the panel for consideration. The Freedom Flat Tax Act is a modified version of the Armey-Shelby flat tax. I have included the text of the Freedom Flat Tax Act with my written comments for your review. Rather than describe my entire proposal, which is extremely similar to the Armey-Shelby Flat Tax, I would like to describe the major differences between the two proposals. I believe that Mr. Stephen Moore, who testified before this panel on May 12, 2005, discussed the basic concept behind the Freedom Flat Tax Act of 2005. The largest difference between the Armey-Shelby Flat Tax and the Freedom Flat Tax Act is that my bill would create an optional flat tax system. It would leave it up to individual taxpayers to decide when to opt-into the flat tax. The reason that this opt-in clause is so critical can be illustrated by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (P.L. 99-514), which was the last time that the tax code has been reformed. As this panel knows, The Tax Reform Act of 1986 both broadened the tax base and lowered marginal rates. After its passage, people who had made financial decisions based on the tax laws of the time woke up one morning to discover that the rules had changed overnight. The sudden changes to the tax code made by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 had a significant negative impact on the energy and real estate sectors of the economy in Texas. While I believe that the best tax system is one that does not encourage individuals to make financial decisions based on the tax code, our current system does just that and we need to recognize that fact as we make changes. I believe that it is fundamentally unfair to penalize people who have played by the rules by changing the rules in the middle of the game. That is why the Freedom Flat Tax Act allows taxpayers to make a one-time, permanent election to the flat tax system. Taxpayers can either remain in the current income tax system, or they can opt into the new, streamlined and simplified flat tax system. It allows taxpayers who have bought a house with the assumption that they could deduct their home mortgage interest to decide if it would be to their financial advantage to jump to the flat tax. If it were me, I'd gladly give up my home mortgage interest deduction in order to opt into the pro-growth flat tax. But not everyone is the same. Under the Freedom Flat Tax Act, the decision to move to a single rate system would be entirely up to the individual or business, not up to the government. If someone has constructed their domestic finances, or their business finances, in a way that maximizes earnings under the current federal income tax code, they would be allowed to stay within the code. We should not penalize taxpayers for doing what we encouraged them to do in the first place. There would be no ability to move between the two systems. The Taxpayer Bill of Rights would, however, extend to flat tax electors in order to provide the "innocent spouse" protection that is provided in current law. There are other minor differences, but the proposals are otherwise very similar in concept. For example, The Freedom Flat Tax Act contains inflation-adjusted numbers for the personal exemptions and the wording of the supermajority provision, which requires a supermajority of Congress to vote in order to increase the tax rate or change the tax structure, is different than the Armey-Shelby proposal. In conclusion, I urge the panel to consider The Freedom Flat Tax Act, as well as the Armey-Shelby Flat Tax proposal. As Dr. Armey, Dr. Hall, Mr. Moore, and Mr. Forbes all discussed in their testimony to the panel, I believe that the flat tax has a lot to offer America.
06.08.2005	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) introduced legislation aimed at correcting a loophole in HIPPA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) that denies health care benefits for those who participate in legal transportation activities. The bill will fix the current loophole that does not permit an employer to deny health coverage to an employee on the basis of their participation in a motorized recreational activity, but allows insurance companies to deny benefits for injuries sustained while participating in activities such as motorcycling, ATVing, snowmobiling or horseback riding. “Quite simply, the bill provides health care benefits to those who have slipped through the loophole by protecting their access to substantive health care,” stated Congressman Michael C. Burgess. With strong bipartisan support, the legislation targets clauses in health insurance contracts sometimes known as “source of injury” exclusions. Ted Strickland (OH-6), the lead Democratic sponsor of the bill, had this to say, “It’s shameful to allow health insurers to discriminate against individuals who take part in perfectly legal hobbies, activities and transportation. Our legislation provides a common sense solution to this rule.” “Texans have the luxury to enjoy our vast State and all of the outdoor activities it has to offer,” commented Congressman Burgess. “Just because someone wants to take a horse ride in Big Bend National Park or motorcycle around Lake Lewisville, they shouldn’t be denied health insurance benefits.” “The AMA is excited by the opportunity to work with the great staffs of Representatives Burgess and Strickland, as well as the Energy & Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health to close this loophole once and for all,” stated Edward Moreland, Vice-President of the American Motorcyclists Association (AMA) on the HIPAA Recreational Injury Technical Correction Act. “We look forward to working with Congressman Burgess on this important piece of legislation as it moves through the House of Representatives,” stated Duane Taylor, Government Relations Specialist for the Motorcycle Industry Council.
06.08.2005	The HIPAA Recreational Injury Technical Correction Act Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues Congressman Blunt and Congressman Strickland in introducing legislation that would prohibit insurers from denying payment to health plan participants for injuries sustained while engaged in certain recreational activities like horseback riding or motorcycling. In January 2001, the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service and the Health Care Financing Administration, issued a rule in accordance to the Health Insurance and Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) that was designed to guard against discrimination in coverage in the group health market. These rules prohibited health plans from denying coverage to people who engage in recreational activities like horseback riding and motorcycling. However a loophole was created that allowed insurers to deny payment for services based upon the source of the injury. The rule states that: ``While a person cannot be excluded from a plan for engaging in certain recreational activities, benefits for a particular injury can, in some cases, be excluded based on the source of the injury.'' A plan could, for example, include a general exclusion for injuries sustained while doing a specified list of recreational activities, even though treatment for those injuries, a broken arm for instance, would have been covered under the plan if the individual had tripped and fallen. This loophole creates a situation that is especially unfair to people who ride motorcycles, horses, snowmobiles, or any other form of motorized recreation. Millions of Americans enjoy these activities safely every year within the framework of state laws and utilizing proper safety precautions. Should something extraordinary occur resulting in an injury, these individuals deserve the same consideration when it comes to their medical expenses as every other American. They should not be denied payment for health services for the mere fact that the injury occurred on horseback or on a motorcycle. The legislation that we are introducing today will remove any ambiguity when it comes to participation in certain recreational activities or modes of transportation should an injury occur. I want to thank Mr. Blunt and Mr. Strickland for joining me on this legislation. I look forward to working with them along with the multitude of groups that have made this legislation such a high priority, especially the American Motorcyclist Association and the Motorcycle Industry Council. I urge all of our colleagues to join us as cosponsors and stand with America’s riders.
06.03.2005	More than 225 participants attended the 2005 East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit which aimed to highlight areas where the community could spur economic growth. The East and Southeast Fort Worth Economic Development Summit, organized by the Public Forum Institute and hosted by Honorary Chairman U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, was held to define a vision for the economic future of the region, and to develop a set of recommendations to address a number of challenges facing local communities. When asked what the first step should be in attracting investment to the region, 36 percent of the delegates responded using wireless keypads with ‘skilled workforce,’ followed by ‘safe neighborhoods’ and ‘excellent schools.’ Delegates stressed the importance of their proximity to major economic engines including the medical district, Carter Industrial Park, Interstate-20 Development Corridor and Interstate-35. Congressman Michael Burgess called for a unified vision for East and Southeast Fort Worth that addressed economic development from the inside out. “Growth and economic prosperity flourish all around this section of Fort Worth, and we must find a way to end the cycle of neglect,” stated Congressman Burgess. “As we look at our urban communities, we must work cooperatively together to turn our words into actions. It will require putting community interest ahead of self interest.” The program had break-out sessions which included Building Communities & Changing Perceptions, Encouraging Entrepreneurship, Preparing the Workforce of the Future and Attracting Investment. Many recommendations were submitted and enjoy broad-based support from summit delegates including: 1. Convene top executives in Tarrant County regarding the development of East and Southeast Fort Worth with investors, developers and others to discuss economic opportunities. 2. Bring Fort Worth business leaders together to develop action plans to overcome barriers to creating internships, mentorships and jobs for youth and young adults in East and Southeast Fort Worth. 3. To receive help from the city development department with permits for renovations. 4. To stringently enforce building standards and existing codes while working with communities to apply and enforce design standards unique to the respective communities. David Sampson, the U.S. Acting Deputy Secretary of Commerce and Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development in the Bush Administration, called for development around innovative entrepreneurial clusters. “Building regional competitive advantage means reshaping our strategies for economic growth and focusing more on supplying entrepreneurs with the right education, tax policy and capital," said U.S. Commerce Acting Deputy Secretary David Sampson. “Improving the federal economic and community development system will help Texas create jobs and drive the American economy to new levels in a new century.” Overall, the format of the summit was a combination of presentations by experts, workshops, panel sessions, and an interactive technology – eFORUM – designed to collect instant feedback from summit participants and identify consensus on action steps and plans. Immediately following the summit, a report will be published online to encourage and facilitate future action on the priorities agreed upon at the summit. On a regular basis, the working groups will meet, using the report to benchmark progress made on the four focus areas. The report will be available at the organization’s website – www.publicforuminstitute.org - at the end of the week. "East and Southeast Fort Worth boasts a tremendous community spirit. It was as if everyone in the room was ready to roll up their sleeves and get to work on some innovative ideas," stated Jonathan Ortmans, president of the Public Forum Institute. "Now, with the momentum generated through the leadership of Congressman Burgess, it is clear to us that the time is right to take action."
05.26.2005	Representatives Kay Granger (TX-12), Joe Barton (TX-06), Michael Burgess (TX-26) and Kenny Marchant (TX-24) said today at a press conference that they strongly oppose proposed legislation introduced by Congressmen Sam Johnson and Jeb Hensarling to repeal the Wright Amendment. Rep. Granger said: “Rep. Johnson this morning said at a news conference that this was an issue of airlines being able to have the freedom to fly wherever they wanted. He’s dead wrong. This isn’t a freedom issue. It’s a local economy issue. There’s an answer to this and it isn’t repealing the Wright Amendment. The answer is Southwest Airlines moving to D/FW where they will have room to expand and no restrictions. “The precious state of the aviation industry since the 9/11 terrorists’ attacks, the added pressures of record high fuel prices and a $2.7 million capital expansion at D/FW to maintain its competitive edge among airports makes this the absolutely wrong time to change the North Texas aviation rules,” added Granger. Rep. Barton said: “I’m proud to join this important fight to protect the North Texas economy and ensure low air fare costs by upholding the Wright amendment. The law has served all of us well and has fostered an environment in which two robust and profitable airlines have built a strong base for their operations. Wright has been fair and beneficial to businesses and consumers; repealing it now would be bad policy leaving two weakened airports in its wake. “I’m not willing to jeopardize thousands of reliable jobs only to provide a risky gamble for an antiquated airport that has no room for growth. I’ll take up this fight every time,” added Barton. Rep. Burgess said: “Almost three decades ago, the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth made an agreement to have one regional airport. If change is to occur to that agreement, it must come from the local level and not from Washington. If the mayors and county officials on both sides of the Trinity River can unanimously agree to change the agreement, then, and only then, should Washington become involved. “Our community is fortunate to have two thriving airports that serve millions of satisfied customers and employees hundreds of thousands of North Texans. We should not jeopardize that which is working well already,” added Burgess. Rep. Marchant said: “As the only Republican from the Dallas-Fort Worth region on the Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over the issue, I will do everything possible to prevent repeal of the Wright Amendment. I have briefed Chairman Don Young on the topic many times, and I continue to believe that this was a local decision made in good faith by two cities in 1979. If a change is to be made, it must be done by these two cities, NOT the U.S. Congress. “Everyone is saying how complex this is, but it’s actually quite simple. This is about protecting the 16,000 jobs and the billions of dollars that D/FW Airport pumps into the region. D/FW Airport is the economic engine of North Texas, and I intend to do everything I can to protect it,” added Marchant. The four Members pointed out that the circumstances that led to the Wright Amendment have not changed. The federal agency that regulated commercial passenger airports—the Civil Aeronautics Board--ordered an end to the years of bitter fighting between Dallas and Fort Worth by demanding that the two cities designate a single airport for the region. That was in 1964. A 1968 agreement between the two cities resolved the situation: Both cities would close their existing airports to commercial passenger service. Fort Worth closed Greater Southwest, and tore it down. Dallas pledged to close Love Field to commercial passenger service. A single regional airport would be built. That plan suffered a setback in the 1970s when a new regional airline, Southwest, won a court battle that allowed it to offer passenger service from Love Field. To insure D/FW remained the major commercial passenger airport, the two cities and D/FW agreed on a plan to allow limited commercial passenger service at Love Field that would not harm D/FW. Southwest was convinced to join the agreement and, in 1979, the agreement was written into legislation by House Speaker Jim Wright. Hence, it is called the Wright Amendment. Members also point to the three glaring reasons for why the Wright Amendment must remain in place and why repealing the Wright Amendment would cripple the local economy. Firstly, D/FW recently made necessary expansions that increased their debt substantially. That reality, coupled with Delta Airline’s decision to pull out virtually all its service from D/FW puts the airport in a position where it must increase rather than decrease service. Also, the high cost of flying from D/FW Airport is not to have more Southwest flights out of Love Field. Spreading commercial air passengers over several airports drives up air fares because D/FW Airport’s operating costs cannot be reduced by an amount that is correspondent to the drop in passenger volume. Finally, Southwest has always had the option of coming to D/FW to expand. By coming to D/FW, Southwest would not only expand its service, but also help the economy as opposed to hurting it. All four North Texas Members have vowed to fight to defeat the Johnson/Hensarling bill.
05.26.2005	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2528, the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Fiscal Year 2006 Appropriations Bill. Congressman Burgess voted in favor of the bill which passed by a vote 425 to 1. The FY06 bill provides a total of $85.2 billion to fund medical care for veterans, defense health programs, military construction and military housing. Veterans Medical Services, a central component of this bill, is funded at $21 billion, $1 billion above the budget request and $1.64 above FY05 levels. Over the last two years, funding for veterans medical care has increased by 18%. Funding for veterans mental health research is doubled, and for the first time ever, $2.2 billion is specifically appropriated for veteran’s specialty mental health care. The bill also requires a comprehensive study on Post Traumatic Stress Disorder focusing on improving mental health research, care and access to information. "I am proud Congress passed this bill increasing funds for those current and former service men and women, stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “The purpose of this bill is to improve their quality of life, and they deserve even more than the best we can give them.” H.R. 2528, the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Fiscal Year 2006 Appropriations Bill also provides $20 billion for the Defense Health Program, an increase of $1.8 billion over the FY05 enacted level which includes $210 million for Cancer research. Additional veteran benefits, such as housing, are increased by $1.5 billion over last year, reflecting expanded benefits for Guard and Reserve personnel as well as $13.3 billion to fund the Basic Allowance for Housing program, an increase of $1.2 billion. “Over the last five years, funding for Veterans Medical Services has increased by 40% and funding for the Department of Defense Health Program has increased by 65%,” stated Congressman Burgess. “We will continue to put the needs of Americans men and women in uniform at the forefront of our legislative agenda.”
05.26.2005	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND AIR QUALITY SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING: A HEARING ON THE ADMINISTRATION'S CLEAR SKIES INITIATIVE May 26, 2005 Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you for holding this important hearing. I can't think of a better time to hold a hearing on clean air. My Congressional District, like the Chairman's, is located in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex in North Texas. Each summer the Metroplex faces a serious public health problem in the form of ozone. The hot Texas air combines with Volatile Organic Compounds and nitrogen oxides to form ground level ozone, which causes health problems for our elderly and children, and especially those with asthma. I believe that clean air will be one of the North Texas region’s most important and challenging issues over the next decade. I support efforts to clean up our air - clean air is one of the most important legacies that we can leave our children. In North Texas, there is a significant commitment to clean the air. The EPA, the State of Texas, the Cities of Fort Worth and Dallas, and the North Texas Clean Air Coalition, which is comprised of the North Texas Council of Governments and community leaders, are all working together to improve air quality in the North Texas region. They've done a good job so far - North Texas has grown rapidly over the last decade and the degree of air pollution has not increased, and has even improved. The Dallas - Fort Worth Metroplex has been designated as in "moderate" non-attainment under the recently announced 8-Hour ozone designations, with an attainment date of 2010. This is an improvement over its 1-hour ozone designation, when Dallas - Fort Worth was classified as in "serious" non-attainment. I am pleased about the progress we have made over the last few decades on cleaning up our air, but there is a lot of work still to be done. The Clean Air Act has helped to improve our air quality since it was enacted, but I believe that the time is right for Congress to examine whether or not it makes sense for the future. The complexity alone makes it difficult for states and localities to comply. I do not believe that we should let states and cities "off the hook" for cleaning the air, as some have alleged. But I think that it makes common sense to allow states and cities to spend their resources on cleaning up the air rather than complying with unnecessarily complex federal laws and regulations. And, as a former member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am also concerned about the transportation conformity provision in current law. In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, I'd like to welcome Chairman Connaughton and Administrator Holmstead and thank them for testifying before us today. I look forward to learning more about the President's Clear Skies Initiative.
05.25.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Pandemic Flu May 25, 2005 Thank you Mr. Chairman. When looking at the historical incidences of pandemic flu, I think it is common for one to be overwhelmed by the challenges of preventing a devastating outbreak of influenza and dealing with its aftermath. The numbers tell a chilling story. In the last century, it is estimated that over 53 million people died due to periodic outbreaks of pandemic flu strains. Considering that the world’s population is more mobile today than at anytime in our history, public health officials are right in making the fight against communicable disease the highest priority. Factor in the adaptability of the influenza virus and it is understandable to see why we cannot consign the pandemic flu outbreaks of the 20th century to the “never again” file. There are several tools available to confront a possible outbreak, but I am concerned about the coordination of surveillance, prevention and containment strategies at the state, federal, and global levels--along with concerns about the availability of vaccine or anti-virals should an outbreak occur. While the severity of the next pandemic cannot be predicted, modeling by the CDC suggests that its effect in the United States could be severe. In the absence of any control measures (vaccination or drugs), it has been estimated that in the United States a “medium–level” pandemic could cause 89,000 to 207,000 deaths, between 314,000 and 734,000 hospitalizations, 18 to 42 million outpatient visits, and another 20 to 47 million people being sick. Between 15% and 35% of the U.S. population could be affected by an influenza pandemic, and the economic impact could range between $71.3 and $166.5 billion. Not too long ago, we were concerned about another communicable disease, SARS. The SARS outbreak of 2003 exposed the capability of global surveillance and containment infrastructure and how an outbreak of an unknown disease can impact human interaction and commerce. Dr. Gerberding, I thank you for indulging my phone calls over this period, but even though the severity of the outbreak was largely isolated to East and South Asian countries, it did impact my district, which at the time was the home of Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport. A the local level at least, the SARS outbreak brought into sharp focus how fear can drive a containment response to an unknown illness in the absence of a workable containment strategy. I look forward to hearing from our panels today. Understanding the current capabilities of our public health institutions and the vaccine industry will help improve our response to any future pandemic influenza outbreaks. Thank you and I yield back.
05.24.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. A Review of Community Health Centers: Issues and Opportunities May 24, 2005 Mr. Chairman, I appreciate you convening this hearing on Community Health Centers today. Community Health Centers make up a critical part of our nation’s health care safety net for the poor and uninsured. Because of their proximity to the community and emphasis on primary and preventive care, Community Health Centers help relieve over-crowded emergency departments and improve the health of citizens in the community. I am especially interested in hearing what our panel members have to say today because this issue is critically important to my home district. The 26th District is a cross section of the United States. Within its boundaries you will find a mix of rich, poor and middle income; rural, suburban, and urban; black, Anglo, and Latino. You will also you see sharp differences in the health needs of different communities and how they are impacted by varying health disparities. For instance, in one part of my district, you see some of the highest rates of infant mortality anywhere in the country and indeed higher than even some Middle East and Caribbean countries. In other parts of my district, the population is healthier, but without ready access to health insurance. A new Community Health Center in Denton, Texas is beginning to make a difference by giving community residents access to a physician at free or reduced cost. This will not only improve their short term health, but will help with the creation of a medical home. I am also actively seeking out stakeholders in the City of Fort Worth to look at standing-up a clinic in South East Fort Worth to meet the needs of this community. This area of Fort Worth, having yet to really catch the wave of economic development that has benefited other areas of the city is crying out for just the type of assistance that a Community Health Center can provide. As we proceed from this hearing, I hope I am able to tap some of the expertise here in the room to assist my constituents in this area as they look to establish a Community Health Center. Thank you and I yield back.
05.24.2005	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD Reducing the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism: A Review of the Department of Energy’s Global Threat Reduction Initiative May 24, 2005 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for holding this important hearing. This hearing resumes a continuation of the committee’s oversight regarding nuclear materials and facilities. As I expressed in the last hearing, I am deeply concerned about the lack of safety and security surrounding some nuclear facilities. While this hearing focuses more on securing high-risk nuclear and radiological materials around the world rather than focusing on domestic facilities, the potential threat of terrorism remains the same and deserves Congress’ full attention; I support the Chairman’s investigation of this pressing issue. In the post 9-11 world that we live in today, our national security has become the most important issue facing our nation. We must do everything within our power to ensure that we do not become victims of terrorisms again. The Global Threat Reduction Initiative aims to accomplish this mission by identifying, securing, recovering and facilitating the disposition of these materials around the world that pose a threat to the United States and the international community. I look forward to the opportunity to discuss this program today. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this crucial hearing in which we can address some of these essential concerns regarding nuclear materials and the security of our nation.
05.17.2005	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) voted in favor of H.R. 2360, the Homeland Security Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2006 (FY06). The House bill provides $30.85 billion for operations and activities of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in FY06, an increase of $1.37 billion above the fiscal year 2005 (FY05) enacted levels. The bill provides $19.4 billion for border protection, immigration enforcement, and related activities, an increase of $1.9 billion over FY05. “Voting in favor of the FY06 Homeland Security Appropriations bill indicates that the House is serious about making significant improvements to our border security,” stated Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “We already have many important immigration laws on our books, this bill will help provide the vital funds to enforce them.” These funds support next generation technology to screen high-risk cargo coming through our land and seaports; an expansion of cargo inspection at foreign ports; improvements to supply chain security; maritime security, and support a robust revitalization of immigration enforcement efforts both along our borders and within the interior of the nation. Specific funding includes: • $1.61 billion for border security and control, providing for an additional 1,000 Border Patrol Agents; when combined with the pending FY05 Supplemental, 1,500 new Border Patrol agents will be hired in FY06; • $3.2 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), providing for an additional 150 criminal investigators and 200 Immigration Enforcement Agents; when combined with the pending FY05 Supplemental, 568 new ICE agents and officers will be hired in FY06; • $61 million for border security technology, including surveillance and unmanned aerial vehicles; • $489 million for Air and Marine Operations for border and airspace security; • $20 million for replacement Border Patrol aircraft. • $166 million for immigration case management; “With its long border with Mexico, Texas is consistently battling the flow of illegal immigrants across the border,” commented Michael Burgess. “I believe this bill marks the beginning of a stronger, nation-wide commitment to tightening border security.” H.R. 2360 came to the House floor for a vote only after passing by voice vote in the House Appropriations Committee. The Committee had also issued a threat to withhold funding from the Department of Homeland Security until the Department provided more justification for its programs. “Part of the job of Congress is to ensure that taxpayer money is spent wisely,” remarked Congressman Michael Burgess. “My vote for this bill echoes the sentiments of the committee.”
05.17.2005	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD Subversion of Drug Testing Programs May 17, 2005 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for having this important hearing. Also, I would like to give a special welcome and thank you to two Texans who were gracious enough to travel to DC to testify before us: Ms. Susan Reed and Dr. Amitava Dasgupta. Ms. Reed is the DA from Bexar County while Dr. Dasgupta is a professor at my alma mater, UT-Houston. Thank you both for coming here today. As a physician, I understand that one of the most important issues we face in this country is the war on drugs. The United States is fighting this costly war, both in terms of dollars and lives that are irrevocably changed by this serious problem. As Members of Congress, it is our duty to utilize effective oversight methods that will strengthen efforts by the drug enforcement community to curb this epidemic that has consumed so many Americans. Today’s hearing is just one example of methods that must be employed. I was startled to learn that my home state of Texas is one of only 14 states that outlaw the defrauding of the administration of a drug test; therefore, prosecutors like Ms. Reed can go after the individual who possess the device, but may find it difficult to prosecute out-of-state manufacturers and sellers of these devices due to jurisdiction issues. While the federal drug paraphernalia law makes it unlawful to sell or market drug paraphernalia, it does not include the kind of explicit provisions found in state laws that would cover products used to subvert drug testing programs. More must be done to enable prosecutors like Ms. Reed to fully do their jobs. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this hearing in which we can address some of these important concerns regarding the subversion of drug testing. I look forward to working with you and the rest of the committee to achieve real results of this crucial problem facing our drug enforcement community.
05.16.2005	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD The United Nations Oil-for-Food Program: Saddam Hussein’s Use of Oil Allocations to Undermine Sanctions and the United Nations Security Council May 16, 2005 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for holding this important hearing. As we all know, the United Nations originally established the oil-for-food program for the noble cause of aiding and providing for the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people trapped under Saddam Hussein’s regimen. This program was quickly warped into a financial scandal of epic proportions. I am extremely disappointed by the documents that we have in front of us today, and I sincerely hope that this committee will be able to provide further oversight into this international crisis. Under the program, Iraq could sell limited quantities of its oil and use the funds only to buy humanitarian supplies for its people. We have since found out that billions of dollars in kickbacks went from corrupt contractors—mainly French and Russian companies—into the pockets of Saddam. Some of these funds even went to pay off the dictator’s foreign protectors. The documents that we have in front of us today prove that Iraq specifically targeted French and Russian government officials, as well as private individuals, with connections to French President Chirac and Russian President Putin. Correspondence and transactional documents purportedly show that several prominent French and Russian politicians did, in fact, receive oil contracts from the Regime, including Former French Interior Minister Charles Pasqua and Russian Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky. To further perpetuate the scandal, and perhaps even more shocking is that the UN official in charge of the oil-for-food program, Benon Sevan, received oil allocations. While all three individuals have publicly denied any involvement with these scandals, these documents prove otherwise. In a statement last November, UN Secretary General Kofi Annan actually praised the Iraq oil-for-food program stating that it “was the only humanitarian program ever to have been funded entirely from the resources belonging to the nation it was designed to help.” Especially in light of the allegations that Secretary General Annan’s own son has been implicated in the oil-for-food corruption, I respectfully disagree with the UN Secretary General. I am committed to examining this entire situation in more detail. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this crucial hearing in which we have the opportunity to examine and discuss the UN oil-for-food program.
05.13.2005	Representative Michael Burgess (TX-26)is pleased to announce that James Duncan, a teacher at Everman Joe C. Bean High School in Everman, has been selected to participate in Gateway on the Gulf: Galveston and American Immigration, 1845–1915, a teacher institute sponsored by Humanities Texas, the nonprofit state partner of the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the Bob Bullock Texas State Historical Museum. Forty outstanding classroom teachers from throughout Texas will attend the institute at Open Gates conference center in Galveston from June 15–18. Representative Burgess nominated Mr. Duncan for this opportunity, “Educators like Mr. Duncan are an excellent role model for students and a shining example of Texas’ fine education system. I am certain he will come away from the meeting enriched with information to pass along to his students.” Mr. Duncan, a teacher for 27 years, currently teaches government, economics, and United States and world histories. Gateway on the Gulf will feature presentations and workshops that will provide participants with new strategies for presenting information about the historical immigrant experience in Texas. “Humanities Texas is pleased to sponsor such an exciting educational initiative,” said Michael L. Gillette, executive director. “The teachers selected for this institute will have the opportunity to explore how generations of immigrants have shaped the heritage and culture of Texas and our nation.” Although most of the four-day experience is limited to selected teachers, distinguished historian H. W. Brands, author of Lone Star Nation, will deliver a public lecture in Galveston on June 17 in conjunction with the institute. In addition, Humanities Texas will make documents and curriculum related to immigration available on its website. Humanities Texas and the Bob Bullock Texas State History Museum will sponsor Gateway on the Gulf in cooperation with the Rosenberg Library, the National Archives and Records Administration, Texas A&M University in Galveston and The University of Texas Medical Branch. Major funding has been provided by a “We the People” grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities.
05.12.2005	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1544, The Faster and Smarter Funding for First Responders bill. The bill provides priority assistance to first responders facing greatest risk. Congressman Michael Burgess voted in favor of passage. Representative Michael Burgess had been on the front lines arguing for a more commonsense approach to the funding formula for first responders. Hotly debated during committee hearings last year, Congressman Burgess had this to say about today’s bill: Today’s passage was a necessary step in the often bumpy road to improving America’s homeland security allocation system. In December of 2004, the Department of Homeland Security allocated $12 million to Dallas in December 2004, but sent nothing to Tarrant County and Fort Worth. Tarrant County, home to Lockheed Martin, a military base, and just south of the Texas Motor Speedway is considered a major metropolitan area. Under this bill, DHS would be able to rectify this inequity for Tarrant County. I believe that this legislation is a good first step to assist our community. H.R. 1544 will help prioritize grant applications based on threat, vulnerability and consequences of a terrorist attack. The bill addresses local, state, regional and national preparedness. Grant applications will be required to fit with the statewide homeland security plans, and specify exactly how the money will be spent thus ensuring that the taxpayers hard earned dollars are not spent needlessly. States will also be committed to granting awards to first responders within 45 days or face penalties. Now, not only states but also regions, both intrastate and interstate, may apply for terrorism preparedness grants. Regional planning and coordination will be encouraged in all grant applications. Regional grant requests will be consistent with statewide homeland security plans. Specific, flexible and measurable goals for state and local government terrorism preparedness will also be instituted under H.R. 1544. The Secretary of Homeland Security will develop standards for first responder equipment and training and will be responsible for setting clear goals for national preparedness which will in turn help states and localities avoid wasteful spending and improve preparedness in specific and measurable ways.
05.12.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Hearing on Specialty Hospitals May 12, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for convening the panels before us today on specialty hospitals and the impact they have on the hospital market and patient care. Specialty hospitals have been part of the health care market since before the inception of Medicare. The rise of physician-owned specialty hospitals in recent years has injected a measure of much needed competition in the hospital market. I think it is an appropriate question to ask why doctors placed their own resources at risk to start hospitals in direct competition with community hospitals? As stated in the March 2005 MedPAC report on specialty hospitals doctors are motivated by a variety of reasons-- gaining greater control over hospital operations, increasing productivity, and providing a more satisfaction for them and their patients. And because of the inadequacies of the Medicare payment system, they are also driven by the desire to compete financially with community hospitals. The impact of Medicare payment levels is pervasive throughout the health care system. How Medicare pays for goods and services impacts even the private market, as insurers look to Medicare as a benchmark for provider payments. Because of the inflexibility of the current DRG-based system, many physicians have been placed at a competitive disadvantage to providing lower cost, higher quality care. One of the key characteristics of this country is our drive and competitive spirit. Indeed, competition in other markets has created greater consumer satisfaction, higher quality goods and services, and lower prices. This principle should be no different in the health care market. If we are going to be truly honest with the American people and attempt to address the high cost of medical care, we must move past an over-regulated system of public payers into an arena were the market drives cost and quality innovation and not the federal government. That said--this Committee must also be watchful of situations where competition may reduce access to hospital emergency departments or pediatric units. Some hospital services are not great revenue generators, but are critical services nonetheless and they should be available to the community. While the current data available to the committee does not indicate that this has occurred as a result of greater competition within the hospital marketplace, I believe that we must guard against that eventuality. I support the steady growth of specialty hospitals and believe that the moratorium enacted as part of the Medicare Modernization Act undercut much needed competition in the hospital market. I also believe that this committee should take a serious look at refining current DRGs to improve payment accuracy to hospitals. I thank the Chairman for holding this hearing and hope to learn something from the witnesses assembled before us today. Thank you and I yield back.
05.11.2005	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess reintroduced legislation promoting osteoporosis screening for men. Osteoporosis, a degenerative bone condition that can make bones fragile and can gradually erode quality of life for our seniors, is characterized as a condition primarily impacting women. In fact, 2 million American men have osteoporosis and nearly 12 million more are at risk from developing the disease. Smoking, prostate cancer and obesity surgery may all be risk factors for men. Unfortunately, Medicare does not provide equal coverage for both men and women when it comes to osteoporosis screenings. To rectify this situation, The Medicare Osteoporosis Measurement Act, this would expand coverage of bone mass measurements under Medicare Part B to all individuals at clinical risk. The annual expenditure on hospital and nursing home costs related to osteoporosis and associated fractures tops $17 billion. If Medicare coverage for this service was available to all men at risk, just as it is for women, the National Osteoporosis Foundation estimates that the Medicare program could realize substantial savings. “The first step is for each man to be diligent and get regular check-ups,” stated Representative Michael Burgess. “Men are less inclined to participate in health care screenings which are vital in the early detection of major diseases facing men including high cholesterol and blood pressure, prostate cancer, cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis.”
05.05.2005	In December of last year, Congress voted on the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 (S. 2845). I was among a small group of Members who voted against the passage of S. 2845 because I believed the bill severely lacked adequate border security measures. The National Intelligence Reform Act was all bark and no bite. Today, Congress has sought to rectify this mistake, but including language in the defense supplemental conference report that mirrors the REAL ID Act (H.R. 418) aimed at preventing another 9/11-type attack by disrupting terrorist travel and bolstering our border security. The REAL ID contains vital border security provisions and is strongly supported by the Bush Administration. Texas, more than any other state, understands the importance of border security. With a long and active border, it is comforting to know that new, higher standards are being placed on knowing who, exactly, we are admitting into the country. Now, when you board a plane in Fort Worth or Austin or Houston, you will know that your fellow passengers have gone through a standardized, verified screening process. Make no mistake, this is not a national ID card, but it does compel states to improve the data security of information that states already hold about their citizens and requires the states to improve the physical security of the buildings where data is stored. I am proud to state that Texas has already begun integrating these procedures. I know that there are arguments on both sides of this issue, but I believe these new policies will provide better security while maintaining freedom. We have the right to freedom from harm of those who would illegally enter and maneuver in our country, and I believe the language in this conference report has successfully found a balance.
05.04.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. The State of Readiness for the 2005-2006 Flu Season May 4, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this important hearing on public health readiness and how it relates to flu outbreaks. I believe that we must work with our public health agencies to ensure access to adequate supplies of vaccines, and at the same time work with manufacturers to make sure they have the ability to produce flu vaccine. I would like to take a moment though to raise some concerns I have regarding the vaccine availability in less specific terms. While today’s focus is on flu vaccine supply, but many people have forgotten that since 2000, we’ve also had shortages of vaccines that protect against eight childhood diseases -- diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis [whooping cough], measles, mumps, rubella [German measles], pneumococcal disease, varicella [chicken pox]. The flu vaccine shortage was only symptomatic of the broader vaccine supply problem: there are only a handful of manufacturers making vaccines for Americans. Three manufacturers had licensed products for flu vaccine last year (Sanofi Pasteur, Chiron and Medimmune). Many childhood vaccines have only one manufacturer, and none have more than two manufacturers, increasing the risk of shortages. Why are there so few manufacturers? Several reasons: o The vaccines business means complex development, complex manufacturing and complex regulatory challenges o Vaccines are a low margin business o Vaccines have one of the greatest liability burdens of any medical product We need to address the overall issue of vaccine supply in this country, and I encourage the committee to take up the broader issue of ensuring a stable supply for all vaccines this year.
05.03.2005	Today, U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) announced the winner of the third Annual 26th Congressional District art competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” A junior at Marcus High School in Flower Mound, Dusty Stewart, won first prize in the 2005 competition with her mixed media/collage entitled “Superstition #3.” The art competition was open to public, private and home-schooled high school students residing in the district. “This contest is designed to highlight the artistic achievements of our local high school students and to share the results of those talents with our area and the rest of the country,” Congressman Burgess said. “Dusty’s work makes the 26th District proud. She is an extremely talented young woman with a tremendous gift.” Representative Burgess honored Dusty Stewart and other student artists at a reception on April 22nd at the Center for the Visual Arts in Denton hosted by the art competition’s co-sponsor, The Greater Denton Arts Council. The competition judge was Denton artist George Cadell. Ms. Stewart’s work will be displayed in the United States Capitol complex for the coming year. A ribbon-cutting ceremony opening the National 2005 “An Artistic Discovery” Exhibition will take place in Washington, DC on June 14, 2005. The ceremony will honor the winning artists from congressional districts from across the country. Dusty Stewart, daughter of Steve and Yvonne Stewart of Flower Mound, is an art student of Brenda Thomas at Marcus High School North. Three Honorable Mention winners were also announced: Brittany Day of North Richland Hills, representing Birdville High School; Sarah Lim of Lewisville, representing Lewisville High School; and Jonathan Penn of Roanoke, representing Liberty Christian School in Denton. Since the competition was first launched in 1982, nearly 5,000 local contests have been conducted that have involved more than 650,000 high school students. Congressman Michael Burgess was pleased to bring this worthwhile program to the high school students of the 26th District and looks forward to next year’s competition.
04.27.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. Medicaid and Long-Term Care April 27, 2005 The Medicaid program represents one of the more interesting and difficult public policy problems facing this Congress. Medicaid’s tremendous growth in terms of enrollment and cost are staggering. Enrollment in Medicaid has risen from 4 million beneficiaries in 1966 to 47 million beneficiaries in 2002. Over this same period, Medicaid expenditures have grown from $400 million to an approximately $300 billion a year. There are many cost-drivers in a program this big, but none are more complicated and important to address than the cost of long-term care covered by Medicaid. I want to thank the Chairman for holding such an important and timely hearing on an issue that will impact us and our constituents one day. Medicaid represents the largest public financier of long-term care services, with Medicare coming in a close second. Because personal savings are often consumed before or during a stay at a nursing home, Medicaid too often becomes the payer of last resort, purchasing very expensive care. CBO estimates that in 2004 the average cost for a private room in a nursing home was $70,000 annually. For patients who have been institutionalized for a long periods, it is almost certain that Medicaid will become a payer at some point. This situation only becomes more precarious when you look at our demographic trends. By 2050 nearly 5 percent of the population will be 85 and older. This group, which is more than triple of the number of elderly over 85 today, is most likely to seek long-term care than any other demographic group in the U.S. This country will experience a wave of elderly individuals seeking long-term care services and concurrently a bloating of the Medicaid safety net to meet their health needs. That’s why it is important for this committee and Congress to begin addressing the issues that surround aging and how best to plan for the health problems that arise with old age. Providing incentives to individuals to purchase long-term care insurance will be vital to meet the health needs of an aging population. I myself have purchased a long-term care policy, but for so many Americans, this is an expense that may not even cross their minds until it is too late. I also believe that we should explore bolstering public-private partnerships, such as Long-Term Care Partnerships, as a way to balance private responsibility with an adequate public safety net to meet long-term health care needs. I thank the Chairman and the witnesses who have joined us today and I look forward to a lively discussion of the problem we face and potential solutions to solve it. Thank you.
04.22.2005	Representative Michael Burgess (TX-26) today announced that Ms. Kathy Skinner, from Samuel Beck Elementary School in Trophy Club, has been selected as the recipient of the prestigious 2004 Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching. “I want to congratulate Ms. Skinner for being selected for this prestigious honor. She is a credit to the State of Texas and a credit to our many hardworking men and women who support the education of America’s children,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. The Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching was established in 1983 to recognize the outstanding science and mathematics teachers, kindergarten through 12th grade, in each state and the four U.S. jurisdictions. Today, the White House award is recognized as the Nation’s highest commendation for elementary and secondary math and science teachers. This year’s winners were selected from more than 600 nominees. After an initial selection process at the state level, a national panel of distinguished scientists, mathematicians and educators reviews the extensive application packets of the state finalists and recommends the teachers who will receive a Presidential award. Ms. Kathy Skinner commented that teaching might come naturally, but still, “You need to do a fair bit of thinking and planning for your lessons. You can't just stand up there and hope it all takes.” She believes the most meaningful lessons are the ones where the kids really have to dive in and get involved. “I think I always wanted to be a teacher. I grew up in a small farming town, and teaching was always considered the most honorable profession one could pursue. It still is.” Each of the 2004 Presidential awardees will receive a $10,000 award and a trip to Washington, D.C. to attend the award’s presentation ceremony and participate in award week activities, including a Congressional hearing in the House Science Committee on Thursday, April 14 to hear from several of the winning teachers. “I believe that teachers are on the frontlines of crafting the future of America,” stated Congressman Burgess. “Teachers like Ms. Skinner will insure that our children continue to excel in science and math skills which are the wave of the future.”
04.22.2005	Representative Michael C. Burgess (TX-26), along with fellow members, Representative Joe Barton (TX-6), Representative Kay Granger (TX-12) and Representative Kenny Marchant (TX-24) will sponsor an “Academy Day” on Saturday, April 30th, for young people interested in attending one of the nation’s service academies. Parents and guidance counselors are welcome, as well. The program, which is open to all area high school students, will be held from 8:30 – 11:00 a.m. at the Student Center on the campus of Tarrant County College – Northeast, 828 Harwood Road, Hurst, TX 7605 Representatives from the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO; the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY; and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, New London, CT will be on hand to explain the admission process and answer questions. “Academy Day” gives students throughout the region the opportunity to find out more about the application process to some of the nation’s top-notch educational institutions,” Burgess said. “I am pleased to co-host this informational event with my congressional colleagues.” For more information regarding Academy Day, or directions to Tarrant County College-Northeast in Hurst, please contact: Robin Vaughan, Academy Coordinator Congressman Burgess’s office Phone: 972/434-9700 Email: robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov
04.21.2005	Representative Michael C. Burgess (R-Texas) today voted in favor of the passage of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which addresses America’s serious energy shortage, unstable energy prices and national security challenges. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 249-183, which included the support of 41 Democrats. The House-passed energy plan enhances conservation, research and development, and provides for security and diversity in the energy supply for the American people. The Energy Act of 2005 is of particular interest to North Texas because it ensures that energy production in the Barnett Shale, an unconventional natural gas source in the North Texas region, can continue to provide natural gas for Texas and the nation. The Act also helps the State of Texas by preserving ERCOT’s (Electricity Reliability Council of Texas) exemption from Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulation allowing this authority to continue to reside at the state level with the Public Utility Commission. “In Texas, we are fortunate that the grid operation and reliability is managed by ERCOT,” stated Rep. Burgess. “ERCOT has put tough, enforceable reliability standards in place which have ensured that Texans have ample access to electricity,” stated Burgess. Rep. Burgess also had an amendment included in the energy bill that would increase the supply of natural gas, “My amendment would authorize a study to identify and quantify low pressure/low volume natural gas resources and develop incentives to keep them in production. As natural gas demand continues to rise faster than natural gas supply, I believe that that maximizing production from low-pressure gas is an efficient, environmentally friendly way to increase our domestic natural gas supply.” In addition, the energy bill requires that dual gasoline-alternative fuel vehicles are operated using the alternative fuel system and encourages the hybrid retrofit and conversion of conventional vehicle engines. Congressman Burgess, a proud owner of a Toyota Prius is a strong supporter of hybrid vehicles. This year's energy bill also doubles the authorization amount over last year's conference report for the hydrogen program to $1 billion in 2010. The Act increases funding for the Department of Energy’s “Clean Cities” program, which provides grants to state and local governments to acquire alternative fueled and fuel cell vehicles, hybrids and ultra-low sulfur diesel vehicles. This will assist localities reduce emissions from automobiles and comply with the Clean Air Act requirements. From a national perspective, the bill decreases American’s dangerous dependence on foreign oil by increasing domestic exploration and development on non-park federal lands and by authorizing expansion of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to 1 billion barrels. One key component of this would be opening the Artic National Wildlife Refuge, commonly referred to as ANWR, to oil and gas exploration. The bill now moves over to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
04.14.2005	Last night, U.S. Reps. Joe Barton (R-Ennis) and Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Flower Mound) voted in favor of a successful measure in the House Energy and Commerce Committee to send the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to the House floor for a vote next week. The legislation is a balanced and bipartisan bill that seeks to lower energy prices for consumers, spur the economy and create hundreds of thousands of new jobs, and take unprecedented steps to promote greater energy conservation and efficiency. Barton, who chairs the committee, has been among the staunchest supporters of a comprehensive energy bill in Congress. “I am very proud of the bill that our committee produced,” Barton said. “It will provide an energy policy for the American people to lower our gas prices, promote a cleaner environment, increase our nation’s electric power capacity, and provide leadership in conserving energy.” Rep. Burgess highlighted a part of the bill that is of particular interest to North Texas which ensures that energy production in the Barnett Shale, an unconventional natural gas source in the North Texas region, can continue to provide natural gas for Texas and the nation. Burgess also offered an amendment about increasing the supply of natural gas, which the committee passed. “My amendment would authorize a study to identify and quantify low pressure/low volume natural gas resources and develop incentives to keep them in production,” he stated. “As natural gas demand continues to rise faster than natural gas supply, I believe that that maximizing production from low-pressure gas is an efficient, environmentally friendly way to increase our domestic natural gas supply.” “In Texas, we are fortunate that the grid operation and reliability is managed by ERCOT, the Electricity Reliability Council of Texas. ERCOT has put tough, enforceable reliability standards in place which has ensured that Texans have ample access to electricity,” stated Burgess in discussing another impact that the bill will have on Texas. The energy bill preserves ERCOT's exemption from Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulation and ensures that regulation of ERCOT continues to reside with the Public Utility Commission of Texas. The energy bill requires that dual gasoline-alternative fuel vehicles are operated using the alternative fuel and encourages the hybrid retrofit and conversion of conventional vehicle engines. This year's energy bill doubles the authorization amount over last year's conference report for the hydrogen program to $1 billion in 2010. “I’m particularly proud of one provision which would authorize two new ‘Clean School Bus’ programs,” Barton said. “The programs would provide $100 million to retrofit existing diesel buses with new pollution control technology and authorize $200 million in grants for replacement of older school buses with clean alternative fueled and ultra low sulfur fueled buses. Last year? in Waxahachie, I personally worked with the school district to retrofit several of their school buses, and the program has been a phenomenal success,” Barton added. “I strongly support tax incentives for the purchase of hybrid and alternative fuel vehicles,” remarked Burgess, who is the owner of a Toyota Prius Hybrid car. “Energy means opportunity because it means economic growth and jobs for working people. It means food on their tables, clothes on their backs, and college for their kids. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 will launch more jobs as we promote innovation, new conservation requirements, and new domestic energy sources,” Barton said. “I am looking forward to working with Congressman Burgess and our colleagues to pass the bill through Congress and sending it to President Bush to be signed into law this year.”
04.08.2005	Rep. Michael Burgess presented Shady Oaks Elementary, in Hurst, Texas, the We the People Award of fifteen classic books on the theme of “freedom” last Friday. The award is made possible through the National Endowment for the Humanities’ (NEH) We the People Bookshelf program. “I am proud that the We the People Bookshelf program is awarding these outstanding works on “Freedom” to one of my local elementary schools,” stated Rep. Michael Burgess (TX-26). “These books teach our children and community our rich history of sacrifice to keep our liberty and allow freedom to endure.” “Libraries serve as beacons of learning in schools and communities,” said NEH Chairman Bruce Cole. “The We the People Bookshelf enables younger readers to examine important themes from many perspectives. This year’s bookshelf tells the stories of freedom sought, freedom denied, freedom lived.” The We the People Bookshelf program will distribute one thousand sets of books to neighborhood and public school libraries, as well as private schools, charter schools, tribal schools, and military schools in all fifty states. Each library will receive a set of the fifteen books, posters, bookmarks, and other promotional materials from NEH through the American Library Association (ALA), which is working in partnership with the Endowment. As part of the award, libraries are organizing programs or events to raise awareness of these classic books and engage young readers. Rep. Michael Burgess was on-hand to present the books to a group of 4th graders at the Shady Oak Elementary library, “You can see these awards on paper, but actually handing the books over to the students is a true joy,” stated Rep. Burgess. “I fondly remembered reading many of the books, and I believe that reading makes a profound difference in a child’s imagination and education.” The We the People Bookshelf on “freedom” contains the following books: Grades K-3: Sam the Minuteman by Nathaniel Benchley; The Girl Who Loved Wild Horses by Paul Goble; Paul Revere's Ride by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow; The Tale of Peter Rabbit by Beatrix Potter; El Cuento de Pedrito Conega by Beatrix Potter Grades 4-6: The House of Dies Drear by Virginia Hamilton; Ben and Me by Robert Lawson; To Be a Slave by Julius Lester; The Complete Chronicles of Narnia by C.S. Lewis; El León, La Bruja & Ropero by C.S. Lewis Grades 7-8: Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury; Fahrenheit 451 (in Spanish) by Ray Bradbury; Across Five Aprils by Irene Hunt; The Witch of Blackbird Pond by Elizabeth George Speare Grades 9-12: Miracle at Philadelphia by Catherine Drinker Bowen; My Antonia by Willa Cather; Mi Antonia by Willa Cather; Animal Farm and 1984 by George Orwell; One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich by Alexander Solzhenitsyn The bookshelf program is part of the NEH’s We the People initiative, which supports projects that strengthen the teaching, study, and understanding of American history and culture.
04.06.2005	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, began work on the mark-up of The Energy Policy Act of 2005. Since 2001, the House of Representatives and its committee have spent a total of 179 hours of floor debate and mark-up debate on a national energy policy. There were 80 hearings, 12 mark-up sessions, and 279 amendments considered. This does not include 72 hours of House-Senate conference committee meetings. A comprehensive energy bill has previously passed the House four separate times. Highlights of the legislation include: Increased oil and gas production here at home. Mandatory electricity-transmission reliability standards to prevent blackouts. Clean-coal technology and money for wind, solar, geothermal and hydroelectric power, and funding to develop hydrogen-fueled vehicles. New efficiency benchmarks for a host of household appliances. Congressman Burgess released the following statement regarding pending Congressional action on energy legislation: “During the last six years, there has been a lot of debate about how to achieve energy independence. Some believe we can conserve our way into energy independence and others think that we must simply increase the supply of conventional energy sources. I believe, however, that energy supply and demand are two sides of the same coin. We can only achieve energy independence if we encourage conservation and production as well as technological innovation which can lead to the development of alternative resources. We must also ensure that we are maximizing production of our current resources even as we look to develop unconventional resources, like shale natural gas formations, like the Barnett Shale located in my North Texas District, and renewable resources like biodiesel. In fact, the world’s first renewable-energy powered biodiesel facility is located in my district at the City of Denton Landfill in Denton, Texas. In addition to these novel ideas, we should look to include oil and gas exploration on federal lands, including the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. I look forward to debating these important issues that have a profound daily impact on my constituents and indeed the nation as a whole. I believe that Congress is positioned to take monumental steps to create a truly energy independent America.”
04.05.2005	STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD - MICHAEL C. BURGESS ENERGY AND COMMERCE MARK-UP THE ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2005 April 5-7, 2005 Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you for holding today's mark-up, as well as the series of hearings earlier this year, on this important legislation. I have found the process to be extremely open and informative. During the last six years, there has been a lot of debate about how to achieve energy independence. Some believe we can conserve our way into energy independence and others think that we must simply increase the supply of conventional energy sources. I believe, however, that energy supply and demand are two sides of the same coin. We can only achieve energy independence if we encourage both conservation and production, as well as technological innovation, which can lead to the development of alternative resources. I strongly support the conservation and energy efficiency measures included in the draft energy bill. Specifically, I believe that the expansion of the EnergyStar program and hybrid and alternative fueled vehicle provisions play an important role in a comprehensive national energy policy. I am currently the proud owner of a hybrid vehicle. In the two short years since I bought my Prius, Toyota has already introduced the Prius II, which has better performance, greater engine efficiency, and lower emissions than the original Prius. I point this out to simply remind my colleagues that technology is constantly changing and as technology evolves, so should our approach to public policy. I also strongly support the use of renewable energy, like wind, solar, hydrogen, biomass, etc, when it is practicable. I believe that we should put windmills off the coast of Nantucket and I'd put them in my own backyard if I could. We must also ensure that we are maximizing production of our current resources even as we look to develop unconventional resources, like shale natural gas formations and renewable resources like biodiesel. This should include oil and gas exploration on federal lands, including the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. An unconventional source that has proven to increase natural gas supply is the Barnett Shale, a natural gas shale formation located in my district in North Texas; it currently produces XX,XXX Trillion Cubic Feet a year. A comprehensive energy policy should seek to encourage the development and production of unconventional resources, like the Barnett Shale. In addition to encouraging new production, we must take full advantage of existing resources. Important natural gas resources are being lost forever as producers prematurely plug low pressure/low volume "stripper" wells. Today, these wells account for approximately 10 percent of U.S. natural gas production. I will offer an amendment that authorizes a study to examine these stripper wells and low-pressure natural gas infrastructure to determine how these resources can be captured. This will increase energy efficiency by ensuring that we fully utilize existing resources. We must also look to renewable fuels as well as alternative energy sources to fuel our future. The world’s first renewable-energy powered biodiesel facility is located in my district at the City of Denton Landfill in Denton, Texas. The facility has an initial production capacity of three million gallons of pure biodiesel per year and is powered by renewable biogas extracted from the adjacent City of Denton Landfill. This is a powerful example of the role that local governments can play in cleaning up our environment. In closing, Mr. Chairman, I would like to reiterate my support for a comprehensive national energy policy and thank you again for this mark-up.
04.04.2005	Representative Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) today announced that he, along with fellow member, Representative Mac Thornberry (TX-13), will sponsor an "Academy Day" on Saturday, April 9th, for students interested in attending one of the nation’s service academies. The program, which is open to all area high school students, will be held from 8:30 – 11:00 a.m. at the Little Theatre on the campus of North Central Texas College, 1525 West California Street, Gainesville, Texas 76240. Representatives from the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO; the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY; and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, New London, CT will be on hand to explain the admission process and answer questions. "Academy Day" gives students throughout the region the opportunity to find out more about the application process to some of the nation’s top-notch educational institutions," Burgess said. "I am pleased to co-host this informational event with Congressman Thornberry." For more information regarding Academy Day, or directions to North Central College in Gainesville, please contact: Robin Vaughan Congressman Michael Burgess 972) 434-9700 robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov Patti Hamilton Congressman Mac Thornberry (940) 692-1700 patti.thompson@mail.house.gov
03.21.2005	Statement by Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26): On Monday, March 21, 2005, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 203-58 during an emergency session of allowing a federal court to review the case of Terri Schiavo; President George W. Bush signed the bill later Monday morning. “The right-to-life is something I stand firmly behind. As Congress has worked over the past several weeks to secure the jurisdiction of federal courts to review the circumstances concerning Terri Schiavo’s case, I am careful to remember that this situation has been a battle for the Schiavo family for 15 years. As the House convened for a special session late on Sunday evening, I knew that we were discussing a pressing issue that faces not only the Schiavo family but also thousands of families around the country. As a doctor, I cannot stress enough the importance of having a living will or advance directive. It is your freedom to direct your doctors or physicians to which treatments you will or won’t accept for conditions of which there is little or no hope of recovery. What happens if you don’t provide a living will for your family? The stress associated with making these crucial decisions for a loved one can tear a family apart. I know most people are uncomfortable thinking about a time when this decision might be necessary for them or a loved one, but it is crucial to make decisions now. Families can prevent family turmoil and emotional stress by discussing these weighty decisions. It is a simple process that does not require an attorney – you can do this on your own. Go online and conduct a search for ‘Living Wills’ for the simple forms or ask your family physician.”
03.18.2005	“I support Speaker Hastert and Majority Leader DeLay in their efforts to save the life of Terri Schiavo. I would like to take this opportunity to encourage families to discuss and create living wills or advance directives in order to avoid the agony and stress the Schiavo family is experiencing. You do not need an attorney –simply use a search engine and type in “living wills” to find the simple forms or speak to your family physician.”
03.18.2005	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD A Review of Security Initiatives March 18, 2005 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for having this important hearing. At this time in American history, our national security has become the most important issue facing our nation. It is critical that we do everything within our power to ensure that our nuclear weapons are highly secured and protected. We cannot allow our national security to be compromised because of inadequate safeguards that are poorly implemented. The recent security incidents at the Los Alamos National Laboratory illustrate that changes must be made to guarantee the safety of weapons and top clearance material. I share my colleagues’ deep concern with regards to the safety of nuclear sites in America and abroad. I look forward to the opportunity to review both the security status of nuclear weapon facilities and discuss security initiatives that can be implemented to better ensure that our nation is protected. I also hope that additional insight can be provided regarding the security matters at Los Alamos. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this crucial hearing in which we can address some of these essential concerns regarding nuclear facilities and the security of our nation.
03.17.2005	Opening Statement Congressman Michael C. Burgess Subcommittee on Health Energy and Commerce Hearing on the National Institutes of Health March 17, 2005 Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this very important hearing. I thank Dr. Zerhouni for being here today to talk to us about the important research being conducted at the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Zerhouni is what we call in the medical profession “a thinking doctor”. I am glad he could join us here today to offer his insight into the inner workings of NIH and how he administers the 27 institutes and centers that make up NIH. A daunting task no doubt. Today, we have an opportunity to look at how this country prioritizes our health research and the future of NIH. NIH has its roots in researching medical treatment for our soldiers in WWII, but has since evolved into a world class research institution. I believe that the institution must continue to evolve with medicine and shouldn’t be stymied by bureaucratic lethargy. It cannot be understated that Dr. Zerhouni has a very difficult job ahead of him. As NIH Director, Dr. Zerhouni is allocated only 3 percent of the overall NIH budget to coordinate the 27 institutes and centers at NIH. It was only last year when this chamber debated the reorganization of our intelligence community in an effort to fight the war on terror more effectively. It almost went without saying in these halls that the National Intelligence Director needed to have budget authority over the intelligence agencies in order to wield true authority and coordinate this country’s intelligence activities. I believe that we have a similar situation at NIH. With a budget of nearly $30 billion the Director of the NIH has limited authority to direct the research activities of each institute. Having talked with Dr. Zerhouni and finding him a very capable administrator, I doubt even he with only 3 percent of the budget can properly coordinate and direct the research of the individual institutes. Mr. Chairman, we shouldn’t take NIH for granted and we shouldn’t let it succumb to bureaucratic drift. I look forward to working with you Mr. Chairman and you Dr. Zerhouni as we seek solutions on improving the quality and direction of our medical research in this country. Thank you Mr. Chairman.
03.16.2005	Statement by the Honorable Michael Burgess, MD Problems with the E-rate Program: GAO Review of FCC Management Oversight March 16, 2005 Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you for having this important hearing. This hearing resumes a two-year continuation of our oversight regarding the E-rate program. This program deserves vigorous Congressional oversight, and I support the Chairman’s investigation of this important issue. I support the goals of the E-rate program, which would help bridge the technological gap and ensure universal telecommunication service to eligible schools and libraries by providing telecommunication services, Internet access, and internal connections at large discounts. While there have been some E-rate success stories, especially in cities such as Chicago and Philadelphia, there are also severe concerns that must be addressed. I share the concerns of my colleagues, especially with regards to the high potential for waste, fraud and abuse throughout the E-rate program. I commend Assistant Inspector General Bennett for his efforts in exposing and assessing the level and scope of waste, fraud and abuse in the program; I look forward to hearing his additional remarks on this matter and entering into a discussion that will hopefully provide further insight. The GAO’s report that we have in front of us today addresses many of our particular concerns, and I look forward to discussing the GAO’s review and recommendations concerning FCC management and oversight of the program. Congress may have to ultimately decide if the FCC is the proper agency to oversee a program that will ensure that schools and libraries are wired to the Internet. This is one of many issues that I hope will be addressed in this hearing. Again, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this hearing in which we can address some of these important concerns with regards to the E-rate program.
03.15.2005	In response to initial tests showing anthrax contamination in two Department of Defense mailrooms, the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) has closed the facility that processes government mail, temporarily halting delivery to all D.C.-area federal agencies, including Capitol Hill. The USPS closure followed the Defense Department’s decision to shut two mail processing centers — a Pentagon-based facility and a Fairfax County, Virginia site — Monday evening, after hazardous materials sensors detected anthrax in the mail. Should these mail facilities remain closed, delivery to Capitol Hill could be affected beginning Thursday, March 17. Due to the current mail situation, constituents are urged not to send mail to the Member’s Washington Office. Should constituents wish to communicate with Congressman Michael Burgess or his staff in Washington, D.C., they should go to the office website at www.house.gov/Burgess and send an email through the “Write Your Rep” service provided.
03.14.2005	The United States Chamber of Commerce today presented Rep. Michael Burgess (TX-26) with its 2005 “Spirit of Enterprise” award for his strong support for its pro-business legislative agenda in the second session of the 108th Congress. “It is critical to have Members of Congress fighting for American business and their employees at this time of economic expansion and opportunity,” said Thomas J. Donohue, Chamber President and CEO. “Michael Burgess is a leader who has voted time and again to create jobs, improve our domestic security and promote economic expansion.” The Chamber awards the “Spirit of Enterprise” based on rankings it gives members of Congress for key business votes set out in its annual publication How They Voted. Rep. Burgess earned a 100 percent score with the Chamber last year and has compiled a 100 percent cumulative ranking during his tenure in Congress. Chamber-designated “key votes” are recorded floor voted on issues established as priorities by the Chamber’s board of directors and on which the Chamber communicates its position prior to the votes receive the “Spirit of Enterprise” award. “It is an honor to receive the “Spirit of Enterprise” award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,” stated Representative Michael Burgess upon hearing he was selected again for the award. “I believe that America’s economic success rests on enterprising minds and common sense legislation. I hope that my voting record continues to keep us on top.” For the second session of the 108th Congress, the Chamber designated 21 House votes as key votes. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world's largest business federation, representing more than three million businesses and organizations of every size, sector and region.
03.10.2005	Congressman Michael C. Burgess participated in an event in support of Lifetime Television Network’s Stop Violence Against Women campaign this week in Washington. Alongside his fellow Texas representatives, Dr. Burgess stood for a photograph while wearing the Lifetime Television Network’s necktie designed to promote the weeks’ activities. “Violent acts against women cuts across every line of geography and income,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “Abuse is found in every community in our country, and we must fight it every step of the way.” The federal government has been taking an increased role in advocating for justice for abused women. Since its inception in 1995, the Office on Violence Against Women, within the Department of Justice, has handled policy issues regarding violence against women and has coordinated all efforts at the national level. In addition to policy, the Office of Violence Against Women has awarded more than $1 billion in grant funds to help state, tribal, and local governments and community-based agencies to train personnel, establish specialized domestic violence and sexual assault units, assist victims of violence, and hold perpetrators accountable. In 2002, women experienced an estimated 494,570 rape, sexual assault, robbery, aggravated assault and simple assault victimizations at the hands of an intimate. Intimate violence is primarily a crime against women -- in 1998, females were the victims in 72% of intimate murders and the victims of about 85% of non-lethal intimate violence. Women age 16-24 experienced the highest per capita rates of intimate violence (19.6 victimizations per 1,000 women). (Source: U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Statistics). “As an obstetrician for over two decades and now a Congressman, I support getting the message out to end violence against women,” stated Congressman Burgess.
03.07.2005	The Westlake Fire Department has received a grant of over $440,000 from the 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. With FY04 funds, $745 million will be awarded to several thousand fire departments. “I am glad to see this critical funding for our local fire departments and their firefighters who put their lives on the line each day to protect our families, homes and communities, stated Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “Our first responders deserve not only our gratitude but also are financial assistance.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs in local departments. “In this nation, far too many individuals lose their lives or are injured by fire. Among these victims are firefighters, who provide emergency response services to their fellow residents,” said U.S. Fire Administrator R. David Paulison. “The nation’s firefighters and American homes are safer today through this important grant program.” Beginning today, March 7, 2005, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will begin accepting applications for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) grant program. The deadline for receipt of the AFG fire grant applications is 5:00 p.m. eastern standard time on April 8, 2005. DHS also announced today that the application period for the AFG Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants will begin on May 31, 2005 and continue through June 28, 2005. Fire Prevention and Firefighter Safety grant applications will be accepted in September 2005. “We recognize the importance of the Fire Act Grants to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to meet their needs,” said C. Suzanne Mencer, Director of Department of Homeland Security Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness (SLGCP). For more information on the grant program or the USFA, contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0942 or email FIREGRANTS@dhs.gov.
03.02.2005	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) reintroduced his popular Freedom Flat Tax legislation to fundamentally reform America’s tax system. Rep. Burgess unveiled the bill, HR 1040 The Freedom Flat Tax Act of 2005, which introduces an optional flat-rate tax system. “It is time Uncle Sam lets Americans take home more of their hard-earned money,” said Congressman Michael Burgess. “President Bush has made a commitment to make fundamental changes to our tax code, and I believe HR 1040 is the best solution to combat our cumbersome system.” The Freedom Flat Tax Act will phase-in the flat tax over a three-year period, with a 19-percent rate for the first two years and a 17-percent rate in subsequent years. It will have no deductions or loopholes, but will allow some personal exemptions. Unlike other versions of the flat tax, this legislation allows individuals and businesses to choose if and when they will opt into the system. The flat tax restores fairness to the tax law by treating everyone equally. “The goal of the Freedom Flat Tax is to create a tax system that minimizes the number of market-distorting investment decisions that are made as a result of the current tax system,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “People should base their financial decisions on common-sense economics, not the tax code.” “The goal of the taxpayer movement is to limit the federal government to taxing income one time at one rate,” stated Grover Norquist, President, Americans for Tax Reform. “Congressman Burgess' legislation gives every American the opportunity to take that option.” A benefit of the Free Flat Tax is the spur to economic growth, which comes through eliminating the current tax code’s bias against savings and investment. Because the flat tax treats all economic activity equally, it will promote greater economic efficiency and increased prosperity. “The legislation creates is a fair and simple system, which will help boost economic activity,” commented Rep. Michael Burgess.
02.17.2005	Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) was appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives to serve a second term as on the House Republican Policy Committee for the 109th Congress. “It is privilege to be selected to serve on the House Republican Policy Committee again this term,” stated Congressman Michael C. Burgess. “This committee assignment provides another opportunity where I can meet with House leadership and share my views on health care reform for all Americans.” The Policy Committee is the House of Representative Majority’s forum for evaluation and considering future legislative initiatives. The Committee contains members of Leadership and Members appointed by the Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert (IL-14). “Selecting Representative Burgess to the Committee was a simple decision. He is a man of solid conservative principles who is dedicated to developing sound legislation that will benefit the American people,” commented Speaker Hastert. The House Republican Policy Committee meets on a weekly basis to discuss current and upcoming legislation. The committee is divided into subcommittees to provide further detail on policy decisions. In the 108th Congress, Congressman Burgess served as Chairman of the Health Subcommittee.
02.14.2005	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) today announced the awarding of a $100,000 affordable housing grant from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas. The grant, provided to the Nevada Court project in Denton through Northstar Bank of Texas, will help fund the acquisition of 10 rental units in Denton for use by very low-income disabled individuals. These two-bedroom units will be completely accessible to people with mobility impairments. "Quality affordable housing is in chronically short supply, especially for those residents of the 26th District with special needs," said Congressman Burgess. "rants like this one from the Federal Home Loan Bank can make these projects viable and help serve this important community need." The FHLBank Dallas invests 10 percent of its earnings each year through Affordable Housing Program (AHP) grants that are used for down payment and closing cost assistance, rehabilitation of housing for income-qualified families and construction. The Dallas Bank, one of 12 district banks in the FHLBank System created by Congress in 1932, has assets of $65 billion, and is a cooperative owned by more than 890 member and affiliated institutions in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico and Texas. For more information visit Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas.
02.10.2005	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess voted in support of H.R.418, REAL ID Act of 2005, to establish and rapidly implement regulations for state driver's license and identification document security standards. The bill was introduced by Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-WI) on January 26, 2005 and passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 261 to 161. Congressman Burgess was an original cosponsor of the legislation. The REAL ID Act had strong support from the Bush Administration. In a statement released Wednesday, February 10, 2005, the Administration stated that it, “…strongly supports House passage of H.R. 418, to strengthen the ability of the United States to protect against terrorist entry into and activities within the United States.” The REAL ID Act was born out of the debates surrounding border and immigration policies lacking in the 9/11 Recommendation Implementation Act (later to become Public Law 108-458). Congressman Michael Burgess was a challenger of the 9/11 Recommendation Implementation Act because he believed it needed stronger border security measures. In a statement to the press on December 9, 2004 Congressman Burgess remarked, “Although the original purpose of the legislation was to provide for reform of the intelligence community, terrorism prevention and prosecution, border security, and international cooperation and coordination, I believe the bill has been weakened to the point of being meaningless.” The 9/11 Recommendations Report stated on page 390, “All but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of U.S. identification document, some by fraud. Acquisition of these forms of identification would have assisted them in boarding commercial flights, renting cars and other necessary activities.” H.R.418, REAL ID Act of 2005 would keep driver’s licenses out of the hand of illegal immigrants; make it easier to deport people in the country illegally and would give judges broader discretion in evaluating applications for asylum. “I have no doubt that the REAL ID Act of 2005 will provide the bite to the bark of the 9/11 Recommendations Act of 2004,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “I only hope that Congress acts swiftly in implementing this bill as it means better border security and safety for us all.”
02.09.2005	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess voted for legislation honoring a proud group of African-American heroes of World War II. The House of Representatives passed H.Con.Res.26 to honor the Tuskegee Airmen for their bravery in fighting for our freedom in World War II, and for their contribution in creating an integrated United States Air Force. Tuskegee Airmen is the term used to describe the black fighter pilots of the 99th Pursuit Squadron, later incorporated into the 332nd Fighter Group, who fought during World War II in the U.S. Army Air Corps that were trained at Tuskegee Army Air Field, Tuskegee, Alabama. “I can think of no better time of the year than Black History Month to put forth such outstanding legislation,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. On a recent mission to Iraq, Congressman Michael Burgess was briefed at the 332nd Fighter Group, the original Tuskegee Airmen group, where a mural honoring the Tuskegee Airmen is proudly displayed. “I thought the mural was poignant and the Tuskegee Airmen certainly represent the best of what our air force has to offer –service; humility and honor,” remarked Rep. Michael Burgess. “Our brave soldiers fighting in the 332nd in Iraq make daily sacrifices having transported some 19,000 soldiers, since the beginning of Iraq Freedom to recuperation centers in Ramstein Air Base in Germany. “The Tuskegee Airmen were brave and patriot in the face of prejudices and discrimination at home, and enemies and death abroad,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess. “I know that the new 332nd carries this legacy proudly, and will continue to show great courage in the face of all obstacles.” Highland Village Mayor Bill Lawrence had this to say about the legislation, “I’m pleased and commend you and the Congress of the United States for doing the right thing. My father served with the Tuskegee Airmen in the enlisted ranks and their story is one of patriotism, courage, sacrifice, and commitment to a belief in the promise of American life, despite an America that denied them that promise.” H.Con.Res.26 honoring the Tuskegee Airmen was one of a series of resolutions before the U.S. House of Representatives honoring African-Americans. These included H.Res. 69, to honor the life and accomplishments of the late Ossie Davis who helped break the color barrier on Broadway, and H.Con.Res.30, to support the goals and ideals of National Black HIV/Aids Awareness Day.
02.03.2005	“Alzheimer’s is a debilitating disease that not only robs an individual’s memories and life, but it also brings pain and suffering to those loved ones left behind,” stated House Policy Subcommittee on Health Chairman Michael C. Burgess following a hearing on the “Impact of Alzheimer's Disease on Caregivers and the Progress of Research” on Wednesday. “It is critical that we raise the awareness of Alzheimer’s now,” stated Chairman Burgess. “Nearly 4.5 million Americans suffer from this disease a number that has doubled since 1980. The annual direct and indirect costs of caring for individuals with Alzheimer’s disease are estimated to total $100 billion as well as exacting an unquantifiable emotional toll on caregivers.” One of the testimonies in Wednesday’s hearing came from University of Arkansas Athletic Director Frank Broyles. The legendary UA football coach was testifying before the key committee of Republican lawmakers today because he has spent the last several years as a caregiver to his wife Barbara, who suffered from Alzheimer's. Barbara passed away last October, and since then, Coach Broyles has made Alzheimer's advocacy his “new mission in life.” Arkansas Congressman John Boozman hosted the hearing and introduced Broyles, his former coach at the University of Arkansas. Broyles told the committee his personal story of how he first found out about Barbara's illness, what the family went through as caregivers and about the impact her death has had on his life. He brought a message to the lawmakers asking them to become as passionate about this issue as he is, saying that is how we can make progress toward a cure. Barbara Broyles was 79 when she passed away and had been married to Frank for 59 years. Although Alzheimer's affects millions in America, nearly half of all people 85 and older, it does not receive the attention other incurable diseases do because those who have it cannot advocate for funding. The hearing focused on the National Institute of Health (NIH) funding for Alzheimer's research. The panel discussed the “Ronald Reagan Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act,” which Congressman Michael Burgess is an original cosponsor. The Ronald Reagan Act seeks to increase NIH funding by $1.4 billion for Alzheimer’s research. Also testifying at the hearing were Dr. Marilyn Albert, Co-Director of the Johns Hopkins Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and Dr. Stephen McConnell, Senior Vice President of Advocacy and Public Policy for the Alzheimer's Association. Coach Broyles stayed on Capitol Hill after the hearing as a special guest to view President George W. Bush's State of the Union Address and to attend the National Prayer Breakfast on Thursday morning.
02.02.2005	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess voted to approve a resolution honoring the people of Iraq and congratulating them on their first free election in 50 years. By a vote of 404-9, Members of Congress recognized the courageous achievement by the Iraqi people who voted in defiance of the threats made by the terrorists. Rep. Burgess was honored to vote in favor of this historic measure. “I was pleased to support this legislation that congratulates the Iraqi people on their landmark achievement. Also, this resolution expressed our gratitude to the American service men and women, coalition forces, and Iraqi security forces who gave the ultimate sacrifice in providing security for this monumental election. I applaud all of those individuals who were so dedicated and committed to making this vote a success,” said Congressman Burgess. “I know that the American people and constituents in my district share my view that this election in Iraq is an exciting step forward for a people who suffered for so long under the tyranny of Saddam Hussein. This election signals to terrorists all over the world that courage, a love of liberty, and a desire to have a representative form of government cannot be deterred by threats or suicide bombers.”
02.02.2005	The President’s plainspoken remarks this evening are a clear call to all who wish to live in liberty. Tonight, I heard our leader’s emphatic statement for democracy around the world and major reforms in social security, health care and energy at home. On my recent mission to Iraq, I had the pleasure of meeting with Prime Minister Iyad Allawi. He stated that Iraq has its roots in ancient civilization and that he relished the opportunity for Iraq, “to spread the cause of democracy to other areas of the Middle East, which will make the cost and the risk of liberating Iraq worthwhile.” It was this remark that I recalled most as I watched the quiet but determined march to democracy during the January 31st elections in Iraq. Our soldiers have been fighting and working hard so that a victory for freedom could exist in the Middle East where it never has before. The elections represent a dramatic and decisive blow against terrorism and dictatorships everywhere. We carry this responsibility proudly. The work in Iraq will continue to be difficult-but freedom and the Iraqi people have secured a critical victory. It was a privilege that I could be there two weeks before this momentous occasion. But tonight, when Marine Corps Sergeant Byron Norwood’s mom, Janet, embraced Safia Taleb al-Suhail, one of Iraq's leading democracy and human rights advocates whose father was assassinated by Saddam’s regime, there was not a dry eye left in the House of Representatives chamber. Nothing could have prepared me for the historical moment. I was moved as I have never been before. President Bush also discussed a bold domestic agenda. The President clearly stated the problems with social security in its current form. If you accept that there is a problem, then you know it is prudent to act now. Some might say that 2018 is far away, but as Bush remarked, “If you have a five-year-old, you're already concerned about how you'll pay for college tuition 13 years down the road.” He is correct. We must plan now for the future. Social Security, enacted in 1935, is not ready for the 21st Century. Four years after the enactment of social security, major medical breakthroughs, such as penicillin, began to extend the lives of many Americans. No one receiving benefits today, or in the near future, should have to face the prospects of having their benefits cuts, but if we do our job correctly, this will never be the case. I have no doubt that augmenting the current social security system is a necessity. I believe that to capture the time-value of money for younger workers should include their ability to possess personal investment accounts. We are becoming an ownership society, and I believe that the next generation can benefit best from having a security net in place with social security with the flexibility to invest. I agree with President Bush that a solution has yet to be revealed, but I too welcome the discussion ahead. Many proposals are being presented in Congress, and I am carefully reviewing the options. I ask you to focus on the facts, study the issue and then make-up your own mind. This is your retirement, after all. As always, health care remains a top priority for the President as it does for me. Without a doubt, one issue that I believe Congress must address is medical liability reform. Health care costs are on the rise, and a direct link can be made to lawsuits. If we continue down this path, we will see fewer and fewer doctors in high-risk specialties like obstetrics and neurosurgery. This is a solvable problem, and Texas’s recent tort reform is an example of the type of legislation we need at a national level. President Bush is committed to tort reform, and I will continue to carry this mantle in the House of Representatives. Continuing down the path of great reforms like the Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit for seniors, I believe we will make a move to restructure and improve America’s ailing Medicaid system. This state-federal program is complex and requires a great deal of coordination, but through my committee assignment on the House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, I plan to play an important role in this redesign. The work of health savings accounts has provided thousands of individuals with health insurance who have never had it before. These plans move us closer to an ownership society where people, not corporations, insurance companies or the government, make decisions about their health care needs. Only patients and doctors should make those decisions, and HSAs and AHPs help move us all in that direction. In closing, I wanted to remark on one other topic from the President’s State of the Union Address for 2005, and that is his national energy policy. Energy is something that many people do not realize they utilize everyday. From your alarm clock going off in the morning to the gas you put in your car to drive to work, Americans consume many resources. I lived through the 1970s and the “energy crisis,” and I know there are ways to avoid such calamities in our future. We must continue to focus on more renewable energy sources. We must also focus on utilizing energy sources from within our own borders. A perfect example of where we get our energy is the Barnet Shale located underneath North Texas. But an even larger energy source, the Artic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) is waiting to be tapped. I have been to visit ANWR through my previous work on the House Transportation Committee. This large, marshy wasteland is not full of pristine, snowcapped mountaintops. It is an uninhabitable place where no human or beast can survive. It is a perfect untapped example of an energy source available to us immediately. Now, as a member of the House Energy and Commerce Energy Subcommittee, I hope to work towards developing a comprehensive, national energy policy. Tonight, we head a confident leader outline a bold plan for the 21st Century. President Bush’s State of the Union Address spoke to a nation ready for action and poised on the edge of greatness. The United States consistently looks not only to be a leader, but a leader by example. We push for greatness in others as we push for it ourselves. Our challenge is to continue making the impossible, possible for ourselves and to provide others liberty and freedom. I plan to work alongside President Bush to protect social security; refine our health care system; implement a national energy policy; and people throughout the world who yearn to live in freedom know they have a friend in the USA.
01.26.2005	Today, Congressman Michael C. Burgess received his subcommittee assignments for the 109th Congress as a Member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Rep. Michael Burgess will serve as a Member on three subcommittees: Health, Energy and Air Quality, and Oversight and Investigations. “These are the issues that you hear about everyday on the news,” commented Rep. Michael Burgess after hearing of his assignments during a member’s only organizational meeting of the full committee. “As a doctor, I am particularly pleased to be added to the health subcommittee where I can continue my work improving America’s health care system, but I am equally honored to serve on both the energy and oversight subcommittees as they directly impact my district.” Each subcommittee has separate jurisdiction over their focus area. The Health Subcommittee focuses on public health and quarantine, hospital construction, mental health and research, biomedical programs and health protection in general, including Medicaid and national health insurance, food and drugs and homeland security-related health aspects. The Energy and Air Quality Subcommittee oversees the national energy policy, fossil energy, renewable energy resources and synthetic fuels, energy conservation, energy information, energy regulation and utilization, utility issues and regulation of nuclear facilities, interstate energy compacts, nuclear energy and waste and the Clean Air Act. This subcommittee is chaired by fellow North Texan Ralph M. Hall (TX-04). The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee has responsibility for oversight and investigation of agencies, departments and programs within the jurisdiction of the full committee which extends over five Cabinet-level departments and seven independent agencies--from the Energy Department, Health and Human Services, the Transportation Department to the Federal Trade Commission, Food and Drug Administration, National Institutes of Health and Federal Communications Commission. “I am looking forward to delving into the details of each of the subcommittee as we tackle major issues facing the 109th Congress,” stated Rep. Michael Burgess. “I’m particularly interested in reviewing medical liability, reforming Medicaid and bringing a national energy policy to fruition.” Congressman Burgess’ three new subcommittees on the House Energy and Commerce Committee are in addition to his chairmanship of the House Republican Policy Committee’s Health Subcommittee. “With these two separate subcommittees on health care, I’m hoping to bring profound changes to our current system,” stated Congressman Michael Burgess.
01.16.2005	16 Jan 2005 Inside the Green Zone, Baghdad Iraq - Briefing by General David Petraeus General Petraeus, whom I had met some 18 months ago when in Mosul, Iraq, is now in charge of the Iraqi Security Force. It was with obvious enthusiasm that he related that they graduated their first class on January 6 of this year. Throughout the presentation he continued to emphasize that Iraqi leadership was key to this process. He stated that in some areas of the southern part of the country the entire spectrum of security is provided by the Iraqi Security Force. In the recent battle in Falluja, 2,800 members of the ISF have participated. The General state’s that NATO had helped with rebuilding the Iraqi police force and that much of the equipment with which the Iraqis are familiar is of an older Soviet-vintage, similar to that which many of the Eastern Bloc countries use. There have been some cultural difficulties; Iraqis will walk off of the job whether they are policeman or in the army. They see this as a cultural right, and periodically must reconnect with their families. Due to the lack of wire transfer capabilities and bank to check capabilities, these individuals must physically take pay home to their families. Once this problem was identified, and compensated for, relations with the Iraqi Army and Iraqi Police Force have been much smoother. Leadership is also important. Inspiration is key. The quality of any battalion is directly proportional to the quality of the Iraqi commander in charge. Still, the General feels that the individual Iraqi soldier fights for the same reason that other soldiers will fight –that is a strong commitment to the man fighting on either side of him. The General stated that money does matter and the recent pay increases have helped retention in the armed forces of Iraq. Combat is also weeding out those who are easily intimidated. On the whole, he was optimistic stating that they have built nine divisions of new Iraqi soldiers in the past year. It is his goal to drown the insurgents in a sea of Iraqi security forces. There has been no shortage of recruits, in spite of the attacks on Iraqi security forces by the insurgents, there are still many who are anxious to serve. Despite the focus placed upon the violence in Iraq, the General reported statistics showing that the trend of attacks is significantly down in the five or six weeks since the end of Ramadan. As far as the number of forces available, the General acknowledged that the numbers vary and so reports will be different. He stated his criteria -it is the number trained and equipped. This number currently stands at 127,000. There are many more currently in training, and approximately 75,000 Iraqis involved in facilities protection, which are not include in his estimate. Following the briefing by General Petraeus, our group traveled to the United States Embassy in Baghdad. There we were met by Ambassador Negroponte and his staff. They provided us with some significant insights into the upcoming elections. Additionally, with an eye beyond the elections, there was considerable discussion about rebuilding effective institutions in Iraq. The discussion turned to the expected turnout for the election. One of the ambassador’s staff members described what he called the “high noon” effect. He stated that at present the townspeople were not quite ready to come to Gary Cooper's side, but he felt that that day was not far off. Ambassador Negroponte said that he anticipated spectacular violence but questioned in the end if that would matter. He stated that the citizens of this country have a high pain threshold and that they have been living with violence and a question of intimidation on a day-to-day basis. He felt a lot of people would make the decision about voting on Election Day and felt that there may be a mass psychology, which may create a surprisingly high turnout. Lunch was followed by a trip to the Embassy annex. This building previously housed the Coalition Provisional Authority prior to the handover of sovereignty last summer. Steve Casteel talked about the progress he has made in the last 15 months. Casteel said that this was the largest Iraqi police effort ever attempted and that most of the failures they encountered were failures in leadership; but that they are stressing quality over quantity. Now, as they are charges with fighting the insurgency, this quality of leadership becomes even more critical. He stressed that the solutions must be Iraqi solutions, and that they must respect the process. He reports that this was a long-term process rather than a short-term solution because even though they are fighting the insurgency now, organized crime may be an issue at a later date. There was also some discussion that they were recruiting former members of the Iraqi policy, who ranged in rank from commanders to lower-ranking individuals. He said in their training they stress to recruits to not break the law, kill someone or waste money unless it is absolutely necessary. Overall, public opinion of the Iraqi police is very high. He noted that 1,500 Iraqi policeman had died in the past 15 months. He also stressed flexibility and stated that the shelf-life of any plan in Iraq was about 30 days. He stated that the insurgency is capable of almost immediate change. In spite of this, he noted that every day his force was stronger and that historically it takes time to rebuild a police force. He stressed that his mission was capable of the flexibility required. We were then joined by General Peter Casey who is the commander of all activity in Iraq. He too stressed that the overall level of violence in Iraq has decreased in the past two months. Even though the perception was that the instability had worsened, Casey said the currently, the insurgents have no reason to hold back. But he did know that many people in Iraq have never voted, and that they deserve a chance to reject the régime of Saddam Hussein. He stated that the future of Iraq was an inclusive government. The General stated that type of intimidation techniques currently in use were those employed by the former régime for 35 years. Much of the public's response is an expected conditioned response because they are so used to this type of intimidation that they register almost no reaction. They learned under Saddam’s régime that resistance was futile. It is now the pace at which the Iraqi Army is taking over protection of its own country that is a major question. In April of 2004 the army was not ready, but it now has equipment that it did not have last year. Carlos Valenzuela We met with Carols Valenzuela the United Nations official in charge of overseeing the elections. He stated that the preparations are all currently on schedule. He felt that the threats were not surprising, but there was concern for security at district levels. Their greatest concern was for a catastrophic event that might lead to massive resignations from his elections staff. It seems that Mr. Valenzuela is somewhat surprised that the numbers of resignations from his staff are quite low –in fact –lower than normally expected. Prime Minister Allawi We had a lengthy and wide ranging conversation with the Prime Minister. He seemed relaxed and quite confident about the upcoming election and acknowledged that there are those who have called for a delay in the election process. He stated that those who opposed the January license were unable to articulate a reason for postponement. He stated that if there are those who choose to not participate, either because of intimidation or boycott, that the door will remain open. He noted that the January election selecting the NSC is followed by a vote to ratify the Iraqi Constitution and, by year’s end, a third vote to elect an Iraqi Assembly. He stated what matters most is what kind of Iraq we have at the end of the process. He stated that Iraq has its roots in ancient civilization. He relished the opportunity for Iraq to spread the cause of democracy to other areas of the Middle East, which will make the cost and the risk of liberating Iraq worthwhile. Terrorism he said will continue after the elections because there will always be those who resist stability, but it will become more and more difficult to unravel the community. On the question of turnout, the Prime Minister stated that he meets with Sunni leaders throughout the country. Some of these leaders are committed to delay, and he believes that by continuing to educate them it will add to the overall strength of the country in the future. At this point, he became fairly philosophical and said he had spent the best part of his life fighting for freedom for his country -- and now this freedom is at the doorstep. He would not allow these individuals to distract the process. He stated that if they cannot participate now, there will be a space open for them to participate in the future. “We don’t want the radical forces to win now, nor do we want outside forces from Syria or Iran to take over. I am a practical person. The Sunnis are changing. The process is slow but our only hope for everyone is to engage in the process and distance ourselves from the terrorists. February 1st begins the next chapter in our country's history.” The Prime Minister noted that the insurgents were motivated by a lack of power, and they had no real objectives. He felt that this is the reason they will ultimately lose. Iraq must work to build its own security. He stated that they were at a crossroads, but we need now is more effort, more understanding and more vision. He was asked what message he would like to deliver to the American people, and he replied that all of Iraq is appreciative of the sacrifice of the Americans. He emphasized that it was important that the voices of reason prevail. He felt it was beneficial to use good relations to urge people to participate. He stated that we must get other countries to stop meddling in Iraq's affairs of state. He reserved particularly harsh criticism for the country of Iran, which he said wants to take people back in time 1,500 years. He stressed that patience is necessary. While they are making progress, in must be stressed that the value of Iraq to the United States is a strategic relationship. This in turn can assist in the fight against radical Islamic fundamentalism. It is a chance for civilization to triumph over chaos. It is a chance for a more rational world, which in turn will be a better world. General Peter Chiarelli General Peter Chiarelli talked to us about the difficulties in controlling the areas of Northern Baghdad, particularly the area around Sader City. The total population of Baghdad is 6 to 7 million people and the average life expectancy is 58 years old (this is largely due to disease and the effects of unsafe drinking water). The General said that attacks recently have decreased. The biggest threat remains the vehicle bombs and improvised explosive device, but that they have given the enemy a look that he has never seen before. Combat operations are at unprecedented levels. This is a war unlike any other the General said because of the component of international terrorist networks which are operating in the country. The General stated that the work was proceeding along five fronts. In addition to combat operations there was also a major push to train and employ Iraqi Security Forces. At the same time they are working for the restoration of essential services. They are promoting governance and economic pluralism within their area of the country. The General observed that they will never lose a tactical fight, but it is critically important to keep up all levels of engagement. One of the General's major frustrations is the inability to let the media know that all of these lines are important. Television will continue to focus on the story of the bombing and not the story about how the men and women helping (Camp Victory has put 18,000 people to work in Sader City). Following a visit with the General, we were again allowed to visit with the troops stationed at Camp Victory. Again we encountered young men and women whose morale was high, and whose focus was on the mission at hand. Again they were emphatic that I bring the story back to the United States that there was gifted improvement seen in their area on a day-to-day basis. While every one of them is anxious to come home, they recognize the importance of their work and are willing to stay until the job is done.
01.15.2005	14 Jan 2005 Camp Falluja, Iraq - Briefing from General Hejik General Hejik relayed to me the five phase operation to free the city of Falluja, Iraq. One of the keys to this impressive victory was the direct injection of real-time data and the delivery of this data to the commanders in the field during the “active” phase of the battle. As a result of situational awareness that permeated all levels of the operation, there were no "friendly fire" incidents during this closely fought operation. During the second phase of the operation there was intense targeting of areas that housed suspected insurgents. Phase three represented the actual assault on the city which involves intense urban combat. As a result of this activity, hundreds of weapons cachets were discovered. Significant numbers of anti-tank weapons and antiaircraft weapons were confiscated. Over two dozen IED factories and a smaller number of vehicle bomb IED factories were discovered. As a result of these seizures, weapons prices almost doubled on the black market in the weeks following the assault. More importantly there was a 47% reduction in attacks on coalition forces afterwards. This was indeed a precise operation. Over 500 enemy combatants were killed, and all but six were military-age males. The average age of a U.S. Marine participating in the fighting was 19 ½ years old. Phase four of the operation is now in effect. As of the date of our briefing, 20,000 people had been resettled in town. The civil affairs perspective is that there has been a rapid assessment and administration aid. This was described as a “three block” war. As the fighting progressed ahead, restoration was occurring a few blocks away. The city has been reopened by districts. As safety hazards are cleared away, families are allowed to return. Electricity and water service has been slow to re-establish, largely because of the weak infrastructure in existence prior to the war. Approximately 25% of the houses in the city have been severely damaged and will require major structural repair before re-habitation, but 75% of the structures had only mild or superficial damage and can currently be reoccupied. The General discussed the prospects for elections. They have devised what appears to be a comprehensive program to insure safety of the electorate on election day. The general stated that they have been flexible and creative, and they expect the elections to be held as scheduled. The general observed that the opposition to the elections was different depending on the area of the country, but he said there was a thirst for information about voting in his area of, Al Anbar Province. Most people in the area have never voted and after generations of dictatorial rule and war the general believes that the population is ready to try something else. Perhaps, that something else can be a popularly elected representative government. The general will regard elections in his area as successful if people are given the opportunity to vote. Balad Air Force Base, Iraq - Briefing by general S Hansen We had a rather thorough briefing about the role of the Air Force in Operation Iraqi Freedom. Several air facilities around the country have been recently opened, and the new Iraqi Air Force was recently given three C-130 aircraft. At the Balad Air Force location, in addition to air control operations, there is also significant medical support. Many of the casualties from the Iraqi theater are brought through the Balad facility for stabilization prior to transport to Germany. The staff of Balad is extremely dedicated and felt strongly about their mission. Simply put, they want to win. We also toured the predator unmanned aerial vehicle facility as well as the F-16 maintenance facility. These were extremely well-run operations, and again, morale was high. Mosul, Iraq - Briefing by Col. Tom Knight In Mosul, there are two motorized infantry battalions and significant aircraft activity aimed at intimidating insurgents. There is also a concerted effort to bring the Iraqi Army up-to-standards and in-place, defending their country. Perhaps the best Iraqi support comes from the Iraqi Interaction Force. These troops were tested in the battle of Falluja. It has been difficult re-establishing Iraqi security since the collapse of the local police in November. Although the police force itself has been difficult (and is said to be reconstituted), there are the beginnings of a tested and capable force. The force will require considerable mentoring during the election process but is unlikely to be as easily dislodged as the prior police unit. The Colonel stated that there was increasing human intelligence available to them. He relayed a story of a 12-year-old girl who went up to one of their units and told them the location of a water truck which was the rigged as a vehicle borne IED. There was also a significant amount of weaponry recovered in this incident. The Colonel stated that the populace of Mosul has become more forthcoming in providing information about the insurgency. The United States presence, as well as the presence of the Iraqi forces, has made a significant difference. He reported that the local residents are tired of war. The Colonel also outlined his plans for security during the elections, but conditions are somewhat different than that in Al Anbar Province where Falluja is located; however, the plan seemed well constructed and the elections will proceed as scheduled. This last briefing was followed by dinner with the troops. I had been concerned about the morale in Mosul because of the recent homicide/suicide attack which occurred in their mess hall three weeks ago. I was seated with six enlisted personnel from Texas; their morale was high. If anything, the previous attack had angered them and made them more determined to complete their mission in this country. One individual was well into his second tour of duty in Iraq, and he stated that he had been present during the initial phase. It was his observation that conditions were significantly better now compared with what they were a year ago. He stated that there was almost daily improvement of conditions in the city of Mosul, and the other soldiers at the table were in agreement with this sentiment. They all want to come home, but they want to come home after they complete their mission in Iraq.
01.14.2005	14 January 2005 Today began with an early morning flight, in a C-130 Aircraft, from Islamabad, Pakistan into the airport at Kabul, Afghanistan. With all the problems we encountered with the weather and mechanical difficulties the day before, this flight was entirely uneventful. Following our landing at the Kabul airport we were taken to Task Force Phoenix headquarters. There, we were given a briefing by General Moorehead. Task Force Phoenix is charged with training and equipping the Afghan National Army. The briefing by General Morehead was very thorough and got us up-to-date on what had been happening in Afghanistan for the past 12 months. An enormous amount has been accomplished in the year since my last visit. Task force Phoenix took over the job that was begun by the 10th Mountain division and accelerated the pace of training for the new Afghan National Army. Additionally, they have been encouraging the local militias and warlords to turn in their weapons and several large sequestration areas are now under their control. Afghanistan, of course, recently completed their national elections some four months ago. Largely drawing from the success of registering voters for the election, the success on Election Day with a strong turnout, and now the acceleration of training the Afghan national Army there certainly is reason to be hopeful about the future of the country. A year ago during the briefing General Austin talked about the impact that tribal warlords were having upon the stability of the country. Additionally, the remnants of the Taliban and Al Qaeda operatives were also disruptive forces. The Taliban has been almost completely marginalized by its inability to disrupt the election process. Al Qaeda forces are currently less active because of pressure from the Pakistani Army to the east and continued pressure from coalition forces in the west. President Karzai was largely able to marginalize the effect of the warlords by first incorporating them into his administration, and subsequently replacing those he found unsatisfactory. Following the briefing we were allowed to meet with several soldiers, one of whom is currently a Texas State Representative from San Antonio, Major Rick Noriega. His guard unit has been activated. He met us outside the briefing room and presented a Texas flag which he says flew over the “Alamo.” “The Alamo” is the name that they have given to their outpost east of Kabul. We were then taken to the areas where weapons have been sequestered. The damage done by our Air Force during active combat phase in 2001 showed the deadly accuracy of our air attacks. Old Soviet structures lay in ruins, but the roads themselves had been undamaged. There were no random craters around the bombed out buildings, only those structures that had been designated for destruction were affected. Following lunch with the Marines in the embassy compound we were given an additional briefing by the country team at the American Embassy. A significant portion of this discussion was related to the affect the drug trade has on the economy of Afghanistan. With all of the success following the election, and the acceleration of the new Afghan Army, there is real concern that narco-terrorism may undo the beneficial work that has been accomplished to date. The current plan to combat the growing drug trade is by increasing public information, both at the level of the government and at the level of the people. It is important to communicate the threat posed by the increasing drug trade as well as its negative effect on investment, international support, and the community at large. There is currently an attempt to provide an alternative livelihood for those farmers who have chosen to grow poppies. They continue to build the infrastructure of the county and provide opportunities for establishing credit and more community-based organizations. Additionally, there has been significant reform of the justice system from within the country, which had to be created from scratch. Prohibition will remain a significant part of control of the drug trade as well eradication of the fields where poppies are grown. Significant progress has been made in the re-establishment of civil society in Afghanistan. There are currently more students in school that at any other time in this country's history. There has been a fivefold increase in the number of students in school and 38% of the current students are female. The historical high for female students was 13%; despite the gains, Afghanistan has one-fourth of the maternal deaths worldwide each year -- representing 138,000 deaths per year in Afghanistan. From a political standpoint, 11 million people registered to vote prior to the presidential elections in September. Over 7 million voters turned out for the presidential election. This was the first democratic election ever in the country of Afghanistan. Since the presidential election, President Karzai has focused more on putting people with technical expertise on his cabinet, and he has placed less reliance on tribal leaders and warlords. There are currently no political parties and most political decisions are based on personality or ethnic considerations. We concluded the day with a visit to the presidential palace and a private audience with President Karzai. He emphatically wanted us to convey to the Congress and to the American people how appreciative his country was to America for bringing liberty to their land. And equally as important, after liberation of Afghanistan from the Taliban, was our willingness to stay around and rebuild the country. He felt progress seen in Afghanistan today was the direct results of America's contribution. He felt the rest of the world was surprised by the progress that has been made in Afghanistan. He stated that the enthusiasm of the Afghan people is evident in the strong number that registered and actually voted on Election Day. He said the vote turnout was especially surprising in view of the fact that the weather was not cooperative on Election Day. He stated that the Afghan people do not normally stand in line, in fact, the concept of standing in line is completely foreign to them, but that everyone did patiently wait in line on Election Day. He told the story of an old man who fainted in line. When the people around him had revived him, they encourage them to go home; but he refused and returned to his place in line. He wanted to vote in the presidential election. President Karzai said that there appeared to be a mandate since the public recognizing that this ability to vote really represented power in the hands of the people. On the subject of narcotics trade President Karzai said that his country was embarrassed by the return of the poppy farms. He states that he took this message to the Afghan people and told them that they must free themselves of this menace. He felt then that volunteer eradication appeared to be working in that the number of fields under cultivation with poppies was less than the previous year. He stated that the Afghan people have one thing in their favor and that they like to be well thought of, after years of suffering this has caused them to seek refuge in the easy cash crop of opium but now there is a returning sense of safety. Now they may accept the concept of an alternative livelihood, but they also want the government to hold people accountable and arrest officials who are also drug dealers. He stated that the extent of the desperation was evidenced by the desecration of fruit orchards for poppies fields. The president summed up by again emphasizing that it was so important to him that we convey the gratitude of the Afghans to the American people. They were grateful to have their country back. They were grateful to have a future. He stated that America would benefit from having such a solid friend as Afghanistan in that portion of the world.
01.10.2005	Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) will depart on a congressional delegation mission to the Middle East and beyond beginning Tuesday, January 11, 2005. The bipartisan team will review reconstruction efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as visit with U.S. troops stationed in Europe, the Middle East and Asia. Congressman Michael Burgess went to the Middle East last February to see first-hand the progress made by coalition forces. On his return mission, Congressman Burgess will assess current infrastructure improvements in and around Iraq including transportation and health care resources. For updated information from Congressman Burgess, please go on to our website at www.house.gov/burgess where we will have regular reports on his mission.
01.06.2005	Texas’ Twenty-sixth Congressional District Representative Michael C. Burgess is pleased to announce that he has been appointed to the influential Energy and Commerce Committee for the 109th Congress. The U.S. House of Representatives Republican Steering Committee, which includes Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-Illinois) and Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-Texas), made the official announcement today. “This is indeed a great honor for me to have been selected for this prestigious committee, “stated Congressman Michael Burgess upon hearing the news. “As a physician, there is no better committee on which I could serve given the Energy and Commerce Committee’s jurisdiction, and I believe I can truly be an asset as the committee tackles health care concerns facing our nation. I dedicated the first half of my professional life to medicine, and now I will be able to dedicate the second half to improving health care for all.” Congressman Burgess' responsibilities on the Energy and Commerce Committee will include jurisdiction over legislation relating to health care, international trade, telecommunications, and energy. The Committee has oversight over the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Energy, and the Federal Communications Commission. "I'm pleased to have a fellow Texan, who is also a doctor, joining my panel," said Chairman Joe Barton (R-Texas). "There are many challenges ahead in Congress where Rep. Burgess' expertise and unique insights can play a critical role." Congressman Burgess is looking forward to working with Chairman Joe Barton and his colleagues on the Committee to improve the Medicaid program, the National Institutes of Health, and monitor the implementation of the Medicare prescription drug benefit enacted by the 108th Congress. In addition, the Energy and Commerce Committee will devote time to the creation of a robust national energy policy and modifying the 1996 Telecommunications Act, which are high priorities for Congressman Burgess. "The medical community will be well served by Congressman Burgess' appointment," said Dr. Kern Wildenthal, President of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. "I know how important it is to Congressman Burgess to improve the quality of medical research and patient care in this country, and the Committee will rely on his background and expertise."
